ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22085	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 70 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending today's session of the following MPs: Goran Cabradi and Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals for decisions from the 5th to 11th agenda. By unanimous decision of the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 5 to 11 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that according to Article 192 and Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the parliamentary groups if they have not already done so to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted by National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, No 02-257/17, 22 September 2017. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted by National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, No 02-2470/17, as of 13 September 2017. The draft decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, No 02-2572/17, since 21 September 2017. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group, No 02-2554/17 since 21 September 2017. The draft decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, No 02-2441/17, since 12 September 2017. The motion for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, No 02-2154/17, since 31 July 2017. The draft decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the New Serbia parliamentary group, the Serbia Rescue Movement, No 02-1272/17, since 11 May 2017. Do the Proposer and the Proposer's representatives want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. So I'm concluding this agenda point. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the establishment of a decision on the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. Before opening a single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they have already done so to report immediately, with a number of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the promoter, MP Maja Gojkovic, the president of the National Assembly, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. Is anyone else answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a unique search on the proposal for a decision. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the proposal for this decision. Before we begin the session in which we will discuss the amendments, I would give a 15-minute break so that the ministers with their teams can enter the O.R. and prepare themselves properly for the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22086	Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications Branko Ruzic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government with his associates. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the competent committees and the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The MPs together Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Filip Stojanovic, together with the Dveri parliamentary group, submitted to the 1st amendment, in the same text. Here you go. Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22087	We have said in principle that we are opposed to the adoption of a law like this, because we do not see what would be the purpose of such a law at all, where this so-called law is formed. National Academy of Public Administration. I would like to draw attention to the promoters that, in the light of this amendment, we have given a presentation of what this academy will look like, because this academy will be in fact, a flow boiler, where significant funds will be distributed to NGOs, such as CRTE, and then the European Movement in Serbia, the Centre for European Politics, the Trag Foundation, Group 484, because they are allegedly out of public administration trained to teach and educate people who work in public administration. It's just logically impossible. By adopting this amendment, Serbia would make savings of four million, directly in 2017, and every following year, significant funds would be lost. I just have to add that what would be done is not Serbia's funds, these are the funds that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has provided by borrowing from European institutions, because this education, the improvement, is the EU's interest, that civil servants be, in fact, the same as the Brussels officials in the European administration. We oppose the formation of a para-state, informal educational institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22088	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Here you go, Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22089	Taking into account the events of previous days in this high house, caused by some minor opposition groups, and taking into account the time savings, I am giving up further interpretation of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22090	Thank you. Marijan Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22091	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will also try to be brief. In this regard, I also support this member by his amendment, a member who has been proposed by the Government of this Law. I think the National Academy is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22092	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted together by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and together by the Parliament group Dveri. Here you go, Reverend Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22093	The MPs of the SRS have stated that this law should not exist in our legal system, and the only way to end it is for the amendments to which we have deleted each of the proposed members. If not, Article 2 of the proposed law, for us Serbian Radicals would be the reason to vote against such a law, because you wrote in Article 2 that this law is being transposed into the national legislation of the EU Directive 2007/2/EC. So, as far as we are concerned from the SRS, we clearly and unequivocally say that Serbia must not go to the EU, in fact it will not, but in any case it should interrupt that European path, because because of the ruling majority's attitude that it must go to the EU at all costs, we are meeting with these unsuspecting proposals of the law, such as this on the national public administration academy, which absolutely means nothing, except that you will further finance NGOs, given that you are funding them through the budget directly, and in this way you will do so indirectly. It really raises the question of who are these, under quotes, experts who are supposed to educate civil servants, in which direction this education should go, and what you have predicted that every civil servant who doesn't meet 10% of what he's supposed to do during the month, that he should go to that national academy, that someone there educates him, that someone there teaches him, instead of organising disciplinary responsibility for those who don't know or won't work. I'm afraid you want to actually introduce some kind of certificate to this academy that will replace the diplomas of civil servants you've introduced into the state service, whose diplomas are actually quite suspicious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22094	Thank you. Parliamentarians Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment, in the same text. Here you go, Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22095	Considering the events of previous days in this high house, caused by some MPs, minor opposition groups, and saving time in order to streamline our work, respected presidents, I give up further interpretation of the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22096	Thank you. Here you go, Marian Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22097	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment that I have proposed in order to strengthen the proposal proposed by the Government to this member. It doesn't matter to me whether my amendment or member goes through, as the government has stated.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22098	Thank you. Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Zdravko Stankovic and Goran Bogdanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) MPs Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Thank you. Parliamentarians Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word has Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22099	I thank the president. Article 2 speaks of, I would say, some of the general places that paint this law and which Minister Ruzic defined in his opening interpretation through the ultimate objective of the law establishing a national public administration academy, which is to ensure competence and depolitisation of public administration. Therefore, we are particularly bothered by my colleagues from the club of independent MPs, as I am, the second position of this proposal, where it is said that this academy serves to implement the learning process and, among other things, to acquire knowledge, values and attitudes. This, in our opinion, is absolutely inadmissible, for the simple reason that attitudes and values of employees are not subject to work, but exclusively their rights. But it is in these words that this intention of politicizing continues to be a politicization, intensification of public administration politicization, and of new employees in public administration, because I would say that providing competence is nothing that would be questionable and I would say – well done, Minister, it is great that you remembered to call that name. But, on the other hand, I have to tell you that practice says something completely different, which is that you and the university can start for public administration, but it won't help you make lazy employees worth it, make criminals an angel, make people who don't know your job, or even provide a desk for employees who don't have it, because you partyly hire them by providing them with a work contract, and then they don't even show up at work. You have also touched on the fact that you want to make more kind servants and that this purpose of perfecting them will help, for they will do their job better. I have to tell you that in some way you insult professionals who have been working in public administration for years or decades and who know their jobs, and who don't take into account these party employees who have no idea what they're dealing with, who don't have professional competences, who don't have enough educational levels for jobs to do, but that's why you're humiliating those who are already doing their job, and they don't rock doors, like party employees do, you discredit them. I'm afraid this promotion will be based on who's better, faster and stronger to get on buses to go to party meetings with SNS and coalitions. I'm afraid that public administrations and officials will not be in their jobs at a working time when the SNS have been mythic, as it has been. I always give an example to my town of Panchev, where when the mittins are on the campaign at 12:00 public administration no longer works, because all of them from the commissioners are still obliged to enter the buses of our public carriers and to tour the rallyings of the ruling coalition. This is what this, call public administration reform, serves to perfect future public administration employees. Do not worry about the expertise of those who have good experience, use them in the best possible way, and depolitisation should start you from your ministry and the entire government and set up competitions for everyone, and thus pass a state expert exam for ministers and members of the government, because your predecessor, who is currently also the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, has not yet learned what the division of power means. If she had passed a state and professional exam, I'm sure she would have known. She would know a little bit more about the Constitution, about labour law, about the division of power, not about publicly publishing information that the government is passing laws. So you need to work a little bit of yourself and that, if you're already establishing this academy, you're the first students of this academy, not professionals who carry that burden, or this is a weighty way to further promote passengers by bus to SNS rallying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22100	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22101	Please work on the Rules of Procedure. You should have taken the previous speaker's word away, because it had already begun to deviate from the topic. Let Serbian citizens see who starts to stretch, who starts to insult, who brings riots and nelados into the Serbian Parliament. So, what the lady or missus has been saying all along has nothing to do with this subject. Foreign buses, departures, arrivals etc. Then the replicas will begin and then the Assembly will turn into a circus, as the opposition points to. So, the opposition begins today's session to upset, to make what should not be, and I ask you to automatically take away your word for all those who deviate from the topic. Thank you. (Marinika Tepic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22102	There's no replicating any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Do you want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) Thank you. (Zoran Krasic: He did not say which member. He said, "Article 27." The word is Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22103	Thank you, Chairman. I'll be very brief. Before that, I would like to say that I fully agree with my colleague Jokic in his assessment of the recent discussion. I suggest that this amendment be rejected on Article 2, for three reasons. I'll explain it very briefly. The first reason is that the amendment promoter has not tried absolutely in any way to explain the amendment itself, in any way, other than insulting the civil servants, but it is to her honor or shame. She rated civil servants as lazy, unprofessional, even the word criminals I think she used. I say again, it is to her shame. The second reason why this amendment should be rejected is shown in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which we have all received, I hope we have all read. I fully agree with that view of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The third reason is that in the principle debate, we absolutely made all possible arguments as to why this law is good, and if the amendment promoter listened to the principle debate, despite the obstructions, the pressures, he could conclude why this law should be adopted, which is why this amendment should be rejected. I only have one more sentence. I would like to invite the amendment promoter, I can also take a break, so I printed Wikipedia, here is the biography of the famous Serbian painter Nadezhda Petrovic and the biography of the famous Serbian painter Uroš Predic, so to my supporters, it is not particularly expensive, it can multiply, copy and share with its supporters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22104	George Komlensky, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22105	I do not have the custom, distinguished colleagues, to suggest that some amendment should not be adopted, but this amendment really should not be adopted because the government and the competent ministry recognized the need for those who took jobs in the authorities of the administration in 2000, brought chairs from the house and kicked out workers never to qualify, did not bring home education or built opinions about how the administration works. They need to be re-trained, given the opportunity after these 17 years, for which time they failed to get it, to get working habits, to work for the benefit of the citizens, and they can't get fired because it's very complicated. For that reason, I don't think this amendment should be supported. Party employment should at least be talked about by those who put veterinary technicians in places where graduate lawyers worked, where the uneducated kicked out the schooled in 2000 and learned nothing until today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22106	The word is Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22107	Thank you. Like my previous colleagues, I would suggest that we not accept the amendment because colleagues George and Alexander have already said a lot of things that were very bad in the previous period. I support this bill and this article because I think the law allows people who work in administrations to work, to perfect themselves. That's what I can say because I'm coming from the administration, or from Srlig, whose municipal administration has a shortage of employees. That's why I say - these people need to be given priority, they need to be given an opportunity. I really support both the government and the competent ministry because with this novelty and this new law, it can be much more helpful for people to perfect themselves, to work, to follow regulations and, of course, to do all this because of our citizens, that all citizens have the same rights, that they can get better services, and that way we will have better living conditions. Once again, I propose not to accept this amendment, because I think what my colleague is saying is bad, that a lot of the things that were done by 2012 were the things that we want to do. That's why I fully support the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22108	Thank you. The word is Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22109	Thank you, Your Honor. It's not hard to be nice, culture is a way of life. Let's start on Monday at a high level to talk arguments, not to talk about partocratism. My esteemed colleague said – this is about partocracies and employment. Well, that's just not true. If she had read the law, she would have seen that the National Academy is very different from higher school institutions, so, totally, the diametric opposite. This is just one kind of education, learn it, education. They used to get licenses in three years, now they're won in three months, with a ten-day trend. As far as our esteemed president is concerned, she's a kind of lawyer and a kind of lawyer. Don't insult people anymore. The amendment should be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22110	Thank you. The word has Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22111	Thank you. The amendment is very clear in its intention to delete the views and values of the employees who should learn about them based on these trainings. If you have read so thoroughly the law and amendments that you decide and declare about them, then you would also read it. On the other hand, I totally understand that you are uncomfortable, uncomfortable, and that you do not know how to justify yourself to the public of Serbia over the usurpation of public administration and everything I said is absolutely correct. The whole of Serbia knows that public administration is the main machinery for abuse of the government of Vukic and SNS, by calling for a full public administration, all state officials to do campaigns. It's no secret, there are as many millions of witnesses in all of Serbia as there are residents. And all of them would be nicer and more professional and better if the ruling coalition didn't blackmail them for jobs, not to threaten them, that some have not even threatened the freedom of movement because of such behaviour, or because of not agreeing to become members of the SNS or the ruling coalition. You can talk here whatever you want to insult me, it's just right, and everybody knows it, as everyone knows, that at the time of the public administration campaign in municipalities and cities is empty more than the early hours before noon when everyone gets up, buses go all over Serbia to call the leader.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22112	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22113	I thank you, MP. Don't talk about it, Reverend, whether someone lied or didn't, it's about what we have to do when we get here. We need to show the citizens of Serbia according to a member who quoted how to behave is a man who comes to his job. To do what he's supposed to do that day, which is to talk about amendments to laws. Otherwise, we need to abolish the category of amendments and discussions on amendments and bring them all down to some principle debate that will not have any touch points with the law that we have that day. When we talk about a principle debate, which was a few days ago, we didn't talk about it, let's take into account some kind of debate and width, so that politically there was a debate here even though it wasn't for a long time, whether the law was good or not, and in what sense the opposition would have done something different. But when it comes to amendments, then the Rules of Procedure say something else. We need to talk about what kind of amendment we have submitted, that according to the Rules of Procedure, exactly, and on the other hand, about what the amendment corrects the content of the article to which the amendment applies. And, to break that practice to the applicants of the amendments and to be allowed to say whatever has come to mind because, my God, they are opposition, and as soon as you draw their attention to the violation of the Rules of Procedure or to the respect of the Rules of Procedure, they start yelling at you and terrorising MPs who know what our mission is today. Thank you, and I say in advance, I do not want to vote but I want the Serbian public to know what the sessions look like with us and who is obstructing by not wanting to abide by this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22114	Thank you. I agree completely with you. I've seen you, you'll get the word, anyway, and you're in the electronic system. We definitely have different tasks and goals when the working day begins, and I'm fully in agreement with your findings, the principle debate was a few days ago, today we're having a debate on details, according to the amendments. Please continue in that tone of today's session. As far as I understand it, colleague Gojkovic, you don't want the National Assembly in voting day pleading on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No). Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22115	I thank the chairman. I believe that you have injured a Member of 107, or the dignity of the National Assembly, by allowing myself to be maligned, in violation of my dignity as a folk MP, or a previous speaker, to represent me in an amateur or unworkable sense. If someone should respect that they are not doing their job, that they do not participate constructively in the debate, whether they are politically liked or not, it is certainly not me. What else? I think that colleagues from the positional majority are aware of it, and it simply needs to be acknowledged regardless of, I say, our political arrows, justifiably, because we are in different opposite sexes and that it is not questionable at all. I was absolutely justified in speaking this way and let me explain just why, not entering the replica. So, because the member I'm talking about and the amendment I have is called – the concept of public administration and the concept of professional training.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22116	Comrade Tepic, I will not allow you to replicate through the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22117	I'm not getting into a replica. No, I'm coming in. I just read what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22118	No, you just tried that. I ask you to just point out and address me as the chairman and point out what I've hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22119	Here, that's exactly what I'm telling you, because you need to follow the course of the session and know that we're talking about the concept of public administration and the concept of professional training and that when I talk about what my view of public administration is and what it was supposed to be or not, I can't get any respect for it, and you haven't responded to it, that I'm not writing amendments, that I'm not taking part in the debate, that my aim is to minimise and obstruct the work of this assembly. So I'm just asking you to take protection if you're already taking MPs and opposition MPs, because just because you're sitting a little higher doesn't mean you're sitting on the throne.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22120	Thank you, colleague Tepic. I have said many times so far that there are no double standards and double arches in conducting a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What she spoke of earlier, what was in her previous speech, and what was pointed out by her colleague Gojkovic was one general attitude and the SNS parliamentary group. I must say, I share my opinion on what my colleague Gojkovic was talking about, and she spoke about the tasks and objectives that should be respected and which should be the tasks and objectives of the MPs. She didn't speak to you specifically, she spoke to me as chairman, and in no way was she offended and specifically spoke about you. So I don't think I've done any harm to the Rules of Procedure, especially the member you pointed to. I'm asking you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Marinika Tepic: No. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 3rd amendment in the same text, the MPs together, Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Ružica Nikolic and together, Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić. The word has a national emissary, Ruzica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22121	With this amendment, we have proposed that Article 3. The draft law on the National Academy of Public Administration is deleted and we feel that the law itself should not be passed. We're looking for an expropriation of Article 3 because you've seen a series of problems as a pronoun. The following problems arise as part of the election. This is the absence of a unique record of organs and other entities under any criteria. In the absence of the Authority’s records, there is no single record of public administration employees. Afterwards, jobs and tasks are not standardized which makes it difficult to look at and compare similar related transactions, which is a condition for a quality answer to the question of the need to establish and select an organisational form, to determine the work of the body and public administration organisations. Then, there is no clear and consistent typeology of organisational forms, i.e. entities entrusted with the exercise of administrative public authority. Then, there are no clear criteria on which of the types of organisational forms of public administration should be used and in which cases in order to choose the most efficient form in a specific case. Authorities and organisations with inadequate names that do not maintain their real organisational forms have been established. There are no obvious differences in the control mechanism to which organs of the same species are subject. There are legal gaps regarding regulatory bodies as well as a whole series of problems that you yourself have identified. If you claim all this, and I quote you, then how do you think this bill can solve these problems that you identify yourself?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22122	I thank my colleague Nikolic. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22123	Dear Vice President, taking into account the events of the previous days, in this high house caused by some MPs, minor opposition groups, saving time in order to streamline our work, giving up further interpretation of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22124	I thank my colleague Atlagic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22125	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment has been proposed as a wish to confirm the government's desire to define this member a neutral national institution, which should help our public servants have as much knowledge as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22126	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22127	Thank you. In Article 3, the status position of the National Public Administration Academy is defined so that it is the central institution of the system of professional training in the public administration of the Republic of Serbia, and then that it is educated as a special organisation, and that the supervision of the work of the National Academy is carried out by the ministry. I don't agree with any of that, and so do my fellow Members of the Independent Parliament Club. I'll explain, of course, why immediately. Because you define the National Academy as a central institution. I completely understand that you want to raise her to pedestal or institution level, which is very unfounded. We just heard from a fellow MP from a majority group that education is being done here. So, I don't know why you'd raise to the level of the institution, and as I also said, you can make a university, it won't help you save from the partocracy what you've nailed, and we think that it should, possibly if it should exist, be a central body or an organization, no institution at all. Don't whine her with feathers she doesn't like. Second, you're saying here that the National Academy's work is being supervised by the Ministry. Why does the ministry, if this act establishes a National Academy, or establishes the National Assembly of this Law, then the National Academy, by simple logic of things, should be responsible to the National Assembly, or at least to the Resolution Committee, if it will not already report on the work, which is also a phenomenal matter, because the Government is constantly avoiding to appear before the MPs of that last Thursday of the month, but if we as the MPs, this Assembly is also the founder of this law of the National Academy, then we need to monitor its work, namely us to account, and not later, the ministry as the executive body to oversee and to maintain everything in the shadow of the Party and the abuses, of course, finally deems this power.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22128	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22129	I thank the chairman. In ten years, 34 educations have passed. The staff management department has been conducting this education. By 2012 – 20,000 educations were conducted in five offices, which are located in the Serbian Palace. About 3,300 educations per year are passed by every civil servant in total, when we talk about the total amount. When we talk about professional training, we're not talking about education, I'm not talking about whether someone has completed a particular profession, a certain high school, a college for a particular workplace, but we're talking about training based on the experience of colleagues who have already been through a lot when we talk about career movements within the state administration. It's the only way you can get an effective state administration with which you have to bear tomorrow all the changes in society, which will not be just a matter of Serbia and countries in the region, but also the EU, the East and West, therefore, this is one way that France and Germany and other developed countries work and I don't see a problem at all why it's so much resistance when a French has a National School for Public Administration, when one Germany has a Federal Academy for Public Administration. So if we look up to the best, then we really need the best concepts and solutions here to propose, to adopt. Thus, we will make it easier for the staff management service that, simply, this part of education is not only the primary work of the SUK, but that, simply, the part relating to staff management is done in their appropriate way, and that I am part of the training, so this part when we talk about education, is done in a special institution called the Academy. So I think the amendment that abolishes the concept of the academy is not good and should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22130	Thank you, colleague Tomic. Together, MPs Gorica Gajic, Dejan Šulkic and Milan Lapcevic submitted the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, we've heard a discussion these days about this new bill establishing the National Academy of Public Administration. So, here in the National Assembly, we still need to adopt this law that establishes a fully independent legal person, a completely new educational institution, in order to systematically and continuously train public administration employees. I can sort of agree that our public administration is both bulky and dysfunctional and somewhat unprofessional, but whether it is necessary to set up a whole new educational institution, that is, believe me, a big question. Certainly our public administration, as it is, for years, and we've all said here, or most of us said, was a haven for taking care of party personnel, because it's the most valuable and most motivated member of the campaign tomorrow. . Now, counterpart Tomic said there were over 20,000 different trainings related to public administration. I would now say that in this way, through the institutions, in fact, institutionalized and placed under one cap professional training, that is, to call, very lucrative lectures from the public administration of professional staff who did this training and how, besides the salary, they received very good fees. Now, through this institution, we're going to have new people, new personnel, that we're going to pull out of some party personnel. But first I have to ask one question - did we, Mr. Minister, finally count how many employees we have in the public administration? Is that 450 thousand, 500 thousand, how many new Laws on Public Employment have given effect and how many of us, which number will be in some future period that we will have to professionally perfect, have not been given more efficient and trained public administration? The second question, who should we discuss here anyway, is – how much is this going to cost our citizens? Here in mathematics that you carried out in the explanation it says that we will have to do already in 2017, i.e. that the funds have already been allocated to seven employees in the Public Administration Service, and that amounts to about four million dinars, that we have to employ another five, that's seven million and eight hundred dinars, that we have to get software for three and a half million dinars, that we have to provide funds for continuity in the functioning of the public administration service, until the national academy is established, all of which is worth 20 million dinars, plus 186 and a half million dinars for the main project, for the provision of space, for equipment, all of which we need, and for the professional programme, 250 million dinars will cost, or will be allocated by 2019 in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. So much for this savings that we've been talking about for months now, how much we're going to save in the budget. Now let me go back to the amendment to Article 3. I'm not a lawyer, but reading this bill gives me the impression that it's incomplete, incomplete, non-stop, and that a lot of things still need to be done in this bill. For example, in Article 3. The bill regulates the status and position of the National Academy and we say it is a central institution, is educated as a special legal person and is supervised by the resolution ministry, i.e. State Department and local self-government. Here in the bill, if we have already come with this to the Assembly, we believe that there should be some kind of organisational act, is that the statute, how the internal organization is regulated, which are the organs of this national academy? Why not apply analoguely in this law suggestions as set out in the Law on Higher Education? And this is a higher education institution, the property of a legal person, on its own, let's specify which bodies are and what is the founding act of this national institution. We add a new position, which is – this act on the establishment of the National Academy, would regulate the status of the institution in respect of the right of entry into legal traffic and business, the availability of material resources, management, decision-making, as well as other issues relevant to the National Academy. We think this is necessary. It's still an institution. You have explained that it is only one authority in the state administration that has a slightly greater independence and therefore there should be no founding act, nor bodies of management, management and professional colleges and expert advice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22132	Thank you, colleague Gajic. Amendment with correction, adding new titles and new article. 3a, 3b. and 3v. Together, MPs Gorica Gajic, Dejan Sulkic and Milan Lapcevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22133	The Honored Chairman, since we have made an amendment with Article 3 that there should be a founding act, we have also proposed after this Article 3 an amendment, meaning MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, to add a new title that will read – The Authorities of the National Academy, meaning to specify that, and Article 3a. which will read - National Academy bodies shall be governed by the statute of the institution, in accordance with this law. The agreement on the statute should certainly be given by the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. We further specified that the National Academy has a management body, a management body and special professional bodies. After Article 3, we added a new title that would now specify the managing authorities. That's where we put the management body of the academy's advice. We simply applied analogy to higher education, because it is an educational institution that is a legal person, I am undermining it once more. And Article 3b, the number of members of the council, the process of proposing, electing and dispensing members, working and decision-making, shall be governed by the statute of the Academy. I think that if MPs are already discussing this law, if we are already setting up a special national institution, which I still think is completely unnecessary, that it will be only a haven for some professional chamber or under quotes professionally, which is close to the authorities, we believe that we need to specify what the authorities are, which are the bodies of the business and which are expert advice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22134	Thank you. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs: together with Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandar Seselj and Petar Jojic and together Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševlić. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22135	Article 4 of which we propose to delete talks on the bodies for the establishment of a national public administration academy, against which we, when the members who follow and the powers you have provided for the board of directors and councils are also seen, are indeed confirmed by what we have been saying since the beginning, that this is absolutely meaningless, that this absolutely does not mean that this National Public Administration Academy will again represent some new arrests. Yes, Minister, you're smiling or so. This law seems to me like you took it as the most favourable in the tender. And even if he's the best, he should've watched to be the best. You're talking about some educations, workshops. Really, I don't know how you don't notice that it offends serious civil servants? What kind of education, what kind of workshops, what are you talking about? Is it someone who regularly completed a certain school, college, high school, depending on what is needed in that place, if he's serious, who respects his job, so I guess he's educated himself? Can you imagine a lawyer who doesn't follow the changes in the law and who doesn't complete his knowledge that way? It's just not possible. As it is not possible to be a specialist doctor, not to follow certain progress in medicine, etc. Believe me, this is absolutely unnecessary. Let the civil servants do their job, give them tasks, of course, according to what your policy is. Because civil servants are system workers, that is, the fact, but it's important that you don't put them in a situation that they have to do something that doesn't comply with the law, that they don't have to go to the malls during working hours, so just let them work, provide them with better salaries and finally provide what Cori Udovicki promised, so after Brnabić, from Mr. Ruzic I haven't heard it yet, but I suppose he also intends to introduce payment classes into the state service, but really introduces, not like those before him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22136	Thank you. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and Tatjana Macura. Does anyone want a word? The word has a national MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22137	Thank you. This is the first of several of my amendments to which I have seen any mention of "couch" and "couch" be permanently deleted in this bill. There are two reasons why I suggested it, one is linguistic and the other is essential. We heard from the minister during the debate in principle that the word "couch" and "couching" came from the 15th century from the Hungarian language. With a small correction that is not in 15, but in 16, it is quite true and we already have adopted a foreigner of that Hungarian word in our language – the coachman and the coachman. If we wanted to stick to the origins of the words, the oldest, then we could call this a carriage, instead of taking an Anglicism and introducing another alien, over the ones we've adopted long ago. But it's a less-weighted remark, linguistically. The fundamental observation I have is what will "couching" at the National Academy? It's an alternative method for self-awareness. As we have medicine, so we have alternative medicine; as we have psychology, so we have popular psychology. So, coaching or "couching" is actually part of popular psychology. That I am not misunderstood by the legislator, of all 250 MPs here, I am sure that I will be the first to defend the usefulness of alternative methods, but the question arises why the carriage, not the transcendent meditation; why the carriage, not the psychological astrology; why the coaching, and not the force method? All these disciplines are reduced to the same – self-knowledge through some alternative methods that have arisen and that can be very useful, as people often have a deviation according to official methods. This coaching or "couching" is practically an alternative to psychotherapy. A lot of people will resent going to psychotherapy, but they'll rather go to "couching" and if it helps them, okay, but what's it gonna do inside the National Academy? What do we need with the word "coach" and "couching" in the law? I don't think we should mention them. Even if we hire them at the Academy, there is absolutely no need for them to be mentioned in the law itself. It's enough to talk about lecturers and trainers. I don't see the need to give an alternative method of self-awareness any advantage over all other methods of self-awareness, especially if it's considered, so let's say that someone would be a psychotherapist, should have over three thousand hours of experience working with clients, and the cart becomes after 136 hours. So if we already think that the results of the chariots are important to our training of civil servants, then let's go back to our official methods. And of course, you know that the basic objection of the parliamentary group is enough to even establish this academy. We believe that the training of civil servants, their professional training, was to be organised within the university, within official educational institutions, instead of making a new cost and organising a whole new institution and a new structure through which it will be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22138	Thank you. Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22139	Given the events of the previous days in this high house, caused by misbehaving by some MPs of the minor opposition groups, and saving time for the purpose of rationalising our work, I am giving up the reasoning of the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22140	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22141	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this Article 4 says what the National Academy does. I didn't understand the previous speakers who spoke about the coaching. All I could understand was that this group of MPs cursing like coachmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22142	Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Zdravko Stankovic and Goran Bogdanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 4th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22143	Thank you, Chairman. In this member who defines the work of the National Academy of Public Administration, also, as well as my colleague Stamenkovic, is extremely disturbing, and not only in this member, but on several more occasions, the insertion of these terms of "couch" and "couching", regardless of what we heard from the minister in the opening presentation, one cute story about the reviling of this term and becoming practically since the 15th century in a small Hungarian village, a story that even he doesn't believe himself, because he smiled unhindered all the time while he was reading it, but okay, filled his stenographic notes for a while. I think, for additional reasons, why this is inappropriate. First, we had an extremely active discussion last week of two educational laws, and for hours there was a debate on my amendment, which asked that the Serbian Latin letter be recognized in these laws, which otherwise refer to the use of Serbian language in the public administration. I was accused of fellow Serbian Filipovic here in front of everyone for genocide, hatred against the Serb people and the Serbian state, because I want to see the Serbian Latin letter equally in public use. We have a question of official use here, where non-Serb words are treated equally, you recognize without any remarks from the positional majority that it is against the Serb people and against the Serbian state, and not in public use, but in official use, which is even worse because it is the law and procedure in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We believe that these terms should be deleted, as we believe the last position should be deleted for this authority, which should be set up by the National Assembly, and which you are granting the possibility to perform commercial services, which is totally unacceptable for this National Academy. Don't legitimize with this final view that projects, official but also unofficial, party projects, through commercial content, are reduced to what we would call money laundering tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22144	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22145	Thank you. It's not a fundamental grudge, but I also think the word "couch" should be replaced by the word "trainer". I don't have a problem with that termology, especially being someone who's spent his whole life in football and sports, so I'm not comfortable with it. But, I think, above all, in the laws passed by this National Assembly, the word “trainer ” should stand. The second essential proposal, first of all, is not a grudge, Minister Ružić, I have a few suggestions for you, first of all a question – who will be the trainers who will train our employees? If you don't have enough capacity and your Ministry to determine the needs of the system and if you don't have enough educated people who can be coerced, as you said, or coaches, as we suggest, well, I have several SNS aces, which have proven themselves by running local self-government and managing public systems that I can recommend to you. Here, for example. The president of the municipality of Požega, Milan Christmas, is a great expert who said that mothers, unfortunately, should drown their incompetent children. Well, maybe SNS wants to appoint such people.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22146	Comrade Milojičić, let's go back to the amendment to Article 4.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22147	I'm going back to the amendment and explaining the amendment. Please don't interrupt me. Or, then you can suggest the Mayor of Subotica that he train the officers, because he's experienced in that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22148	My colleague Milojičić, once again I ask you – do you want to explain the amendment to Article 4? In Article 4 paragraph 1, point 8) the word ‘coach’ shall be replaced by the word ‘trainer’.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22149	Mr. Milicevic, what makes you think I don't explain my amendment? I specifically said that we want to replace the word "couch" with the word "trainer" and explain and I want to help the Ministry of Local Self-Government. I asked the minister to answer me who the coaches were. What people are going to train 450 people in the public sector? If there is not enough capacity, here, I suggest the stars of the SNS that have shown themselves, each day causing damage to both us and our country in general. I don't understand why you're interrupting me. I have the right to explain my amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22150	You have the right to speak of an amendment to article 4, and no one wants to take that right away from you. I repeat, in Article 4 paragraph 1 point 8) the word “coach” is replaced by the word “trainer”. Here, talk about that amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22151	That's right. I just asked the minister to explain to me who will educate, who will be these coaches who will train officials throughout Serbia, who currently have 450 thousand? I'm sorry that Martinovic is sufling you to take away my word because I express what the incompetent presidents of SNS municipalities are doing, but ultimately, it's not up to me, it's up to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22152	My colleague Milojičić, there are absolutely no points of contact with the amendment that you have submitted to Article 4. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica, mentioning the SNS on several occasions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22153	Because of that remark about what's said to be incompetent personnel at the SNS. If the measure of ability is an absolute devastation of the environment that you're entrusted with management, then we can even agree. Such a ability as the yellow company has shown, the ability to absolutely detail and precise, completely pedanticly destroy everything they've been entrusted with, we've never really shown, nor do we care to develop this ability specifically, among other things, the ability of the one who performed here very bravely, and is already famous. Practically, he entered Serbia's story as he succeeded in borrowing his city for 4,000,000,000, that the city was during his so-called so-called city. Management and these famous abilities were both without electricity and without water, that he cared much less about it than about local catering facilities and already famous dishes. If he didn't get into Ginnis' record book with hundreds of beer bottles for the night, I don't know what he's going for. As successful as that Paracian, who often mentions these days from the same company, and where it was re-recorded by the one who is equally loud and capable here. His staff there managed to make the place that was among the best in Serbia as regards unemployment a place where unemployment today was estimated to be about 40%. Allal believes for such good results, which can't be seen by an investor one, because someone there deliberately does not allow systematic and planically, which simulates some economic activity. So capable and so well, as only they can, and as we never wanted to do, because we're interested in something else, it's another benefit for the citizens of Serbia. Perhaps the most powerful contrast between their capable and ours, as it is, is whether their billion and 200m euros in debt in Belgrade and our result that halved the result. That today they can't go any further than that, and they don't speak for themselves. Maybe when they say that tycoon Dragan Gilas is a nice name?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22154	Thanks, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22155	That's what I'm done with, Mr. Chairman. Or when they say it themselves, which they say today, that Gilas did not do the devastation alone, it did the whole "yellow company".
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22156	Thank you, colleague Orlic. (Radoslav Milojic: Replica. ) You have a basis for replication. It's just, does Mr. Goran Ciric appear in front of the parliamentary group? Here you go, Mr. Kiric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22157	By who knows which time, mention the data that absolutely doesn't match the truth. This story, to start with the debts of the City of Belgrade, the story of a billion and 200m euros is something we can read and analyze the moment you put on the agenda and analyze the Fiscal Council report. So, you often mention the Fiscal Council, and when you look at the analysis of the Fiscal Council and the financial situation in both the city of Belgrade and Kragujevac and the Nis and Novi Sad, you will see that none of them mention that amount, even if none of the professional and responsible competent persons. The amount of 420,000,000 euros is mentioned, and the debts of the City of Belgrade and of all public enterprises will only be seen in it. The Kragujevac report and some major cities and the state of the Kragujevac budget, which is spoken of in terms of very fast or close to possible bankruptcy, unfortunately, we do not call for such a thing, but we know that many decisions and the management of these cities have led incompetent people into very big problems. And that's what the Fiscal Council's report is about, I'm talking about official data, I'm not talking about speculation and the story of a hearsay. The Minister of State Administration himself and the local self-government will have great challenges in many municipalities and cities, it is absolutely clear, but much of the responsibility we bear here in the Assembly, and especially most of the parliaments, who voted in laws, a series of laws that led Serbia to growing centralisation, the growing income of local self-government, the ever smaller transfers, and the obvious and incompetent personnel by their management lead to such financial situation, primarily in the largest cities, because this is the most visible. Once again, you're talking about official data, not talk stories and warnings from some mayors who have left a big lead here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22158	Thanks, buddy. Comrade Orlic, you're in the system. Would you like a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22159	Thank you very much. Thank you and for your kind confirmation that, as they said to them the other day, the tycoon Dragan Gilas is a nice name, as well as at the confirmation of those words, who came from their ranks these days, that what he did, as he did, and we can talk about any more problems, Dragan Gilas did not do it alone, in this was a complete "yellow company", these are their words published in "The Sunday" which were close to them. So I have no reason to doubt the credibility of that statement. As far as these phenomenal results are concerned, and yet once again their ability to demostrate, what they mention in the Fiscal Council report, and also in Kragujevac and Smederjevska Palanka and Paracin, as well as in Belgrade, all results are achieved during the "yellow company" staff. So that's all they've accomplished on their own. If that's the case, there's nothing to argue about. Let's just say it nice and loud and clear. As for the Fiscal Council and the data for a billion and 200 million, the Fiscal Council itself said – no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Now just so someone answers that question, does that mean that all these debts don't exist? Does this all mean that if it didn't get into their collection, that money shouldn't be paid? Does this all mean that the Belgrade citizens are not burdened in that amount just because it is written in that forest? Or might it make sense and some logic to say and what exactly are the results when all these fine abilities were individually and on various grounds of tycoon Dragan Gilas, as well as that "yellow company" which, as he says, was destroying Belgrade along with him, when everything was well calculated and seen how much they had done? It's obvious that it makes sense to count everything nice, expensive, dazzling, and then underline the line. When that line is underlined, the result of the Belgrade citizens once said - no, no, thank you nothing good is expected, there was not even a few years ago, there will be neither this nor the next, whenever you ask them next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22160	Thank you. My friend Kiric, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22161	So, you're talking about the debts of public enterprises, the works that were done in Belgrade during the DS and not only Dragan Gilas, but also Nesa Bogdanovic and the mayors who left clues and made the City of Belgrade better than what they found in Belgrade, certainly especially after 1999, 2000, and the bridges as tracks remain, but the effective projects and streets and boulevards remain, but what's even more important than that concrete, than that asphalt is the attitude towards people, towards the socially most vulnerable, towards those who receive pensions, and here we have not had that kind of support, and we haven't had a 10% reduction in pensions, as we have in the last five years. It's the attitude of responsible people in the city, it's the attitude towards people above all, not concrete and inefficient projects, which, unfortunately, we can see in Belgrade today. Are you proud of what is happening today in Belgrade, the way it works and the way projects are being run that are being started? Each normal will look forward to every new project, every new street, every new fountain that has its logic and which is done in an efficient and rational way, cheap enough, as it is acceptable for people. But the way these projects are being run in Belgrade at the moment is that they are not thinking in any way about people, their needs and their ability to move around the city and perform their functions and their lives. So, the essence of leading the city is not just concrete and bridges and just schools and kindergartens. It is, but they were especially built at the time when DS was the biggest responsibility, but above all, they are responsible for people, protecting their social status and conditions in which both children and all of them will make and advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22162	Thank you. Replica, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22163	Care for the socially endangered and those who need help – great, just a phrase. Had it not remained at the level of just phrases and debts of all that was to be provided to these people, debt precisely by that Dragan Gilas, the tycoon, and to him by a subordinate "yellow company" in Belgrade, it might have made sense to talk about it. When that money wasn't paid, there's no point in talking any further, but good and useful projects and supporting everything that's being created in Belgrade today, and it's useful, right? For example, "Belgrade on Water for Manhattan in the Balkans" - for example at a time when and whose? Is it by any chance the very mentioned Dragan Gilas, who tasked Belgrade with a billion and 200m euros? Look at the man's date, look really is. It's just, what's the matter? It was a good idea at the time because someone boasted about it and felt incompetent to realize it and realize it. Today when it really happens, when each one of his eyes sees Belgrade on the water showing up, that nothing, every point in Belgrade to mark, you can see from it how the site is progressing. Today it's not good, today it's a disaster, today it's a team to some because of their own inability to do what they were just talking about, it's a disaster, it's bad. What did they say? There's some money laundering today, and there's a story about it being nothing. Today, what's the gain of an unhygiene, a drug addict, a rat, garbage is better than what's going on. So much for the responsible attitude towards useful infrastructure projects. The fountain, as it was, was good, useful, functional and cheap enough. This is what she looked like and this is how she was imagined, and this is how she was photographed by this particular Dragan Gilas with the still current president of the city's yellow company organisation. Then they praised her and advertised her, but what, they weren't able to do it. Today, when it's made, and I see that we're still gonna talk about this, what's the problem? Which cost as much as it cost, not as they announced, three times as much as it was actually done. Is this a bad time?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22164	We're continuing on the amendment. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22165	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must first say that I have listened very carefully to the explanation of the amendment's proposings, and I must admit that I have not understood anything from that explanation. The reason for this is that the amendment promoter has not even tried to explain his reasons. On the other hand, the government has made it very clear why this amendment should not be accepted, but I have an understanding for the amendment's promoter. In that sense, I want to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate him on his family, a nice event yesterday. I also want to give myself the freedom to say on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group that I wish him much health and happiness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22166	The word is made by MP Marko Atlagic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22167	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Milicevic, I suggest that the amendment of the proposal be rejected because it is pointless, especially an explanation of this amendment, because it spoke of some SNS trainers. I've been visiting a municipality these days in terms of investigating the corruption of civil servants. I've encountered a graphite that speaks best of the behaviour of the president of the Smederjev Municipality of Palanca, and today of the MP who stands opposite me. I'll quote the graphite that will go into history – the truth is alive, there's no beer in Palanco, there's no foam left, there's a yellow Ken, and the beer was expensive, I drank it, I bought it...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22168	I'm asking you about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22169	... What drinks a bar, budget pays for everything, I'm a yellow Glibovac Kenac...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22170	I have to stop you. Please return to the amendment to Article 4.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22171	About the amendment. Corruption and trainers are best shown by municipal officials who drank 500-600 liters of wine, as the promoter of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22172	The word has a folk MP, Branka Stamenkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22173	Thank you, Chairman. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106(1) – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. This morning we started this session, looking at the events during the debate in principle, and we came to the conclusion that from the breach of the Rules of Procedure and the replicas we are not talking about the subject itself. I suggest something revolutionary, which is that every time someone starts breaking the Rules of Procedure, you turn off his microphone, you break it off, you don't let him break it, then someone picks up. You tried to stop him, I appreciate it, but by not turning off his microphone and he kept on, he just ignores you. So turn off the microphone and tell his colleague please don't, let's try it again, so if you turn off his microphone again, and that's the only way, believe me. Otherwise, there will be another discussion in a completely unwanted direction. You know we're wasting our time instead of talking about the essence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22174	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. I believe that I did not harm the Rules of Procedure, in particular Article 106(1), for one simple reason, because I tried to suggest my colleague Atlagic the moment he left and when he did not speak about what the amendment was to Article 4. I fully agree with you that we should go back to what is the topic and what is the agenda point, and that is the debate in particular on a very important legislative proposal. With this in mind, MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic have jointly submitted to the 4th amendment. The word has the People's MP Dejan Šulkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22175	Thank you. The proposal for a law on the National Academy is rich in inappropriate terminology and I wanted to make amendments to the terms according to their use in communication. A lot has been said by other colleagues, some colleagues have suggested to predict the word coach etc., but it doesn't matter if we go into the research of the origin of every word, I think we'll be in an unembarkable situation. In any case, I think this proposal is acceptable and may be most appropriate for the law. In the reasons for which the amendment was rejected, it was said that there was no compliance with the solution proposed by the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Law on Civil Servants. That shouldn't have anything to do with it. The debate is united. After all, and on this bill, we gave the amendment to a member where it was necessary. Now it does not matter whether education or training, as foreseen by the law on the National Academy, is going to be carried out by coaches, instructors or trainers, somehow, seems to me that the need for the adoption of this law and the organisation of professional training, in the way it is predicted, is being extended as the basic reason of the existing state in the public administration. So we haven't resolved the question of quantity, or the number of officials, to rationalise ourselves, so that after the number that remains, we can then, to those officers who remain to work, allocate some money and invest in training or education, as you are predicting. This way, if it stays like this, education and training will include those people who are harmless cases. So, really, no education, no coaches, no inspectors will have any significance. I'll remind you that not so long ago, a few years ago, the departments organized counselling, so it wasn't education or training, it was counselling on the application of some new regulations. Instructions have also been given, are called on to advise professional services depending on the type of work, whether they are obliged to deal with budgetary operations, whether social activities etc. and these counsellings could really have raised the question and could have removed the dilemmas that existed regarding the application of new laws. In this way, we will allocate big money, invest in the education of people who will also be covered by the process, but from them we will have no idea. For example, in the Great Plan, the assistant president of the municipality for the development of an economy or enterprise that has neither knowledge nor calling nor the ability to do the job will also be appointed as a person and who is located, or positioned in the current systematisation and municipal administration, will also be covered. Indeed, in no way will it be possible to contribute to any improvement of such personnel. So I ask you, in the application of this law, because by certain adoption of this law, the National Academy will be established, in order to resolve the issue of the scope of public administration. I don't want to take part in the disseminating responsibility of any previous authority for the trends that exist, but in any case, it hasn't changed in any way in the last five years, even more than that, has deepened. I have the right perhaps to say so, because as president of the municipality I kept an account of it and the Great Plan at the moment I handed over the duty she had 51 less employed than the allowed number. So it is possible to organize differently exactly for people who are career officials to invest in counselling, training, and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22176	Thank you. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Maja Vidinović, Tomislav Žigmanov, Goran Jesic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22177	In the draft law of the National Public Administration Academy, in Article 4(2). - It's wiped out. Therefore, the legal regulation of the right to prepare and implement commercial training programmes, i.e. to prepare and implement those programmes for users, legal and natural persons outside the public administration system, is not necessary for us, given the complexity of the area and the work of the national public administration academy, the scope of the transactions proposed by this bill and the takeover of jobs previously carried out by the staff management service. So, you're in line for refusing this amendment of ours said it was one of the significant sources of funding that the National Academy would be sustainable. We think it is necessary to accept this amendment for a number of reasons, and in the public debate we have repeated it several times. So, the staff management service, above all, every public administration, each local self-government is obliged to establish criteria and indeed give an opportunity to those most capable, who, by completing their colleges and their professional schools, have acquired enough knowledge to provide good and quality work. Secondly, which we have talked about and where we have also very serious suggestions from the Anti-Corruption Agency, that it should primarily insist on this selection and on learning and ethics and establishing the integrity of each public servant, because this is a prerequisite for an effective public service that Serbian citizens will trust, in which they will trust, and this is a condition for successful performance of the job. So, as far as funding is concerned, local self-government and the AP are obliged to finance the work of the national academy, and I think that financial commitment in any case also gives the need for local self-government and AP themselves to have a greater impact on the formation and programme and their need for new knowledge. That is why we have proposed that the focus of the interest of the national academy is certainly not commercial and that this should be thrown out, that it is only necessary to focus on what are the key challenges, therefore, public administrations, and that is, above all, practice. No theoretical knowledge, because theoretical knowledge needs to be brought in with standard education, you have to react to how many people we have with fake diplomats in public administration first, and you need to sanction it. These people who have been willing to agree and say that they have certain expertise and certain diplomas, should suffer conventions or false doctorates, but above all, it is necessary to establish good practice, exchange of these experiences, because this establishes the equality of all citizens to whom a service of public administration should be provided. What happens in practice? In practice, it is very often that the same laws at local level, in different ways, are applied, which means that in this way we put citizens in a different and unequal position, and this should be served by the National Academy and I think that we should accept this amendment and give up the commercial programmes because it will target energy in one position.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22178	I'd like to thank my colleague Kiric. Members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs: together by Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanović and Aleksandra Belačić and together by Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22179	We are asking by amendment to delete Article 5, which has the title "co-operation and continued professional support", because we are against this idea of forming this national academy at all. I need to draw attention to the fact that you have imagined the National Academy as a special organization, means an administrative organisation that deals with professional and professional activities of what the executive function has been carried out, the execution of certain provisions, some law. However, when you try to define what professional jobs these are, you can see that these professional jobs are actually not available, because the National Academy is designed as a special organization with legal personality status, which, under quotes, is a flow boiler for funds. I remind these little older MPs who were in this building, we passed four or five laws where we ratified some agreements with various EU banks, where Serbia provided funds for the transformation of public administration, state administration, etc. This law appears, above all, as the need for foreign investors to put these funds into order. But at the same time, they insist that through this, if I may say so, the provision, the funding of their first fighters, these are NGOs. Mr. Ruzic, we have submitted 19 amendments and in each amendment we have given an explanation, as it says in the State Administration Reform Strategy. You heroically rejected all these amendments and practically denied your strategy. In the overall strategy of reforming the state administration, there are no more than two sentences on some visa for the education of civil servants. All the others are serious objections that there is no idea how many public agencies there are, that there are no names of organisational units and that I don't order further what is not known. I have to distract you. This is going to be known to people who, with a little more age, are going to be famous. Once professional training of professional people in general, whether in the economy or in the state administration, it was done through the modern administration of the economic examination, because these were also their own weights, where several professors or people from experience, or from the court, or from the state administration, made several shows of how certain provisions of certain new laws should be interpreted. Then counseling is organized on the Kopalnik, in Zlatibor, it's paid by companies, it's paid by the state administration. Now, that should replace this national academy and it should be practically a crossroads, where again as once upon a time, you have to know, we've been paying the bill to Hiber, Gashi Knezevic, Oliver Antic, that Djurdjevic. So that's one group of vultures who can take the money that comes from abroad. It should now be put into the institution, because the EU does not believe that this money is being spent. I just told you, there's already this system. The system came into life before Mr. Ruzic came. He just continued what the previous minister was doing. You'll see, that's where very picturesque experts appear. I just told you who these experts are, say, the Association of the National Parliament, the Centre for Research in the Policy Argument, then Group 484, the Trace Foundation, the Centre for European Politics, the European Movement in Serbia. The European Movement in Serbia should educate our public servants. Where did you get that idea? Who are they? So, what's it all about? Obligations will be imposed on both public services and autonomous provinces and units of local self-government in the future, so that they can provide funds for them to go to these couches, carriages, chicos, etc., etc. What's this about? As long as the money comes from the EU, this will somehow, as the young would say, work. When there's no money or when that money's picked up by foreign lecturers, what do we do? What are these knowledge that needs to be acquired? Another fundamental mistake that has been going through our regulations for years. Imagine, he can't be a public service director unless he's finished course for the director. By law, the conditions for establishing a working relationship and for selecting certain jobs are school-prepared, working experience. These internal qualifications, confirmation that he was present at a lecture, at some seminar, it cannot be obtained by state affirmation and state obligation. It's the most ordinary provisory that's gonna cost a lot. At this point, it costs up to the last euro of the EU taxpayer, but will then be transferred to the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22180	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22181	The Honorable Chairman, respected citizens of Serbia, regardless of what two MPs from the Dveri MPs have already been excluded, we continue our fight, to point to all the harmful and poor activities of the current government and to continue, of course, the struggle to point to citizens all your pre-election lies, frauds and pranks. One of these laws that we have on the agenda, that is, the one that we are currently considering in the amendment, is actually a symbol of another of your pre-election false promises. That's why we're asking both in this and in other members of the law to delete these members, so this law doesn't even come into force. You, in your time, when you deceived and lied to Serbian citizens about changing something in this country, promised to abolish all unnecessary state agencies and thus reduce the enormous state bureaucracy and party employment actually carried out through those agencies. Not only have you not abolished any of the agencies that actually serve to employ your party personnel, but you're introducing new ones, like this National Academy of State Administration. I have already said, and I will repeat, this is not any National Academy of State Law, but a party academy of the Serbian Progressive Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia, which will only continue to work through it with its party personnel, but this time on state spending. So, you now want to put your party employment academy in the state administration on the budget of the Serbian state. You want Serbian citizens to finance the improvement of your party personnel in the state administration. You want, as Mr. Branko Ruzic and his closest associates here in front of us in the Serbian Parliament, to put everything from the SPS in the state administration. A former SPS MP sits next to him, and there is the president of the youth of the SPS. So, the SPS has inhabited the entire state administration, and here even in public here we can see them. What will the future National Academy of State Administration look like? As the team of Minister Branko Ruzic, who is here today, looks like all the party soldiers sitting in the state ministry. So, as for this Article 5, which we're asking here to delete and record state officials, so you already have it, both the SNS and the SPS have records of their members who are employed in the state administration on the party line. There's no need to make additional records, just give us your lists that you've hired so far, which you advances hired, which you SPS employees hired and how many of your members are working in the state administration. Now Minister Ruzic has arrived to open another agency and hire more SPS in the state service, since it is never enough for them, as they always seek new space in the state administration to employ their party soldiers. That's what we consider a major problem here in this law, which is why we're actually asking that this and all the other flannels be wiped out. Here, let me explain this very vividly to you, what it's going to look like to function at the National Academy of State Administration. The minister's party man, a senior SPS official, the entire ministry next to him sits as SPS officials, knowing that this is a feudal ministry that was assigned per share of party prey after the SPS election. So, in the depths of the entire ministry, they have the right to hire their party soldiers. Then the minister will appoint the director of the National Academy of State Administration, and the director of the National Academy of State Administration will appoint members of the Programme Council. There they will allow other coalition partners from the government to hire each other for another member of their own, or to place another of their party soldiers on the state's salary or the state's fee. Then what's going on? We have full party accreditation, at the head of the National Academy of State Administration, all party people stand. And you, as a civil servant, come to improve yourself professionally – good afternoon, Mr. Ruzic, can I, since I am not a member of the SPS, improve myself professionally? You're not a member of the SPS, so you have nothing to professionally perfect yourself. Let's go next - good afternoon, Mr. Ruzic, I'm a member of the SPS, can I professionally perfect myself? Of course not, you'll be making progress in the state administration, and you who are not party members of the state administration, you'll go a little bit different. Of course, what will the National Academy of State Administration look like? By providing professional training, accreditation will continue to be able to obtain only members of the SNS and the SPS and possibly another one of the authorities to which the quota has been allocated, after coming to power, because the entire Serbian policy has turned into a division of party prey. As pirates, when they win a boat, then they share the treasure they robbed there, and so do you when you win power in Serbia, you share state functions, public enterprises, ministries, public institutions, tenders and everything that this country has toward your party's division of power. Now you think someone in Serbia is going to believe that you're building a National Academy of State Administration? Well, everyone in Serbia knows that you are building a party academy to further improve and advance in the state service of your party staff, the Socialist Party and the Serbian Progressive Party. That's our problem with this law. That there is no party-parasitic system that is the cancer of our society, and that would make sense to pass one such law and there should be professional training for those employed in the state administration. But what kind of situation do you have now? You have a situation that those who are not party people, they are holding the state of Serbia today. They work hard, professionally, honestly. Your party soldiers, they don't come to work, and they get paid. Or, if they're with bought diplomas, they don't even know how to do anything. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Ruzic, and you owe me that answer, avoiding that answer, where is your member here to examine all the purchased diplomas in the state administration? Where's your member here to get kicked out of the state administration, everyone who's a party employee? Where is your member here that those who are actually the best in the state administration are making progress and being rewarded, those who have been working hard for years and decades for small wages, those whom you do not allow to enforce the law because the law would result in some party soldier of yours being sent to prison? Those you actually hold to do their job, so that you can rob the state administration and use it for your party purposes, not only in the election campaign, but also in various other ways, by setting up tenders for your party, bursar and godfather companies. It doesn't matter now which godfather Alexander Vukic is setting up a state-owned tender, because there are more gods and now they're fighting a war between themselves who's going to get a job at a state-owned firm. So, in that sense, to understand something, the SPS is nothing better than SNS. It's an equally one-party, interesting, parasitic structure that eats up this society and the state. Of the 27-year-old multi-party, the SPS has been in power for 25 years and 25 years eating this society and state. It's not knowledge, it's thieving, Mr. colleague who interrupted me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22182	Mr. Beard...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22183	You'd better stop the fellow who interrupted me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22184	Mr. Obradic, we've heard your political speech, I didn't want to interrupt you, but I won't let you qualify someone as a thief. (Bosko Obradovic: Who did I say was a thief?) You just said a little bit – it's a thief. Then you don't know what you're talking about. You just said it for a while – it's a thief. (Bosko Obradovic: Isn't it a thief? You know how to come to power, Mr. Obradovic, democratically in the elections. (Bosko Obradovic: Will you take away my word and turn off my microphone again? No, on the contrary, I suggest that you cannot present such qualifications on the National Assembly. You've seen that we've been closely monitoring your exposure. A certain number of MPs have come forward to speak under this amendment, and I will allow you to continue, but you cannot present such qualifications. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22185	Mr. Chairman, I've asked you on several occasions to write my speech the next time you're not happy with my speech so I can read what you think and not speak my own thoughts, because I don't know how else to go out with you. You expect me to praise the government of the opposition, to welcome Minister Ruzic? I even congratulated Mr. Ruzic. I told him, Mr. Minister, well done, you've come up with the best party SPS program so far, that you're still training your party soldiers who sit next to you and who you've hired in the state administration. Is that enough? What more do you want? And I praised your minister. You really know how to abuse the state administration for your party purposes, you've been doing it for 25 years. Did you answer for anything? Has there ever been a trial for one of your party soldiers? Is there so much theft and everything that's been destroyed in this state someone is lying in jail today? That's the thief I was talking about, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Martinovic or Mr. Orlic cannot stand up and attack the former regime without mentioning the SPS, it is immoral and it is illogical because the SPS has been in power for 25 years. If you will, gentlemen of the Progressives, deal with the former regimes, then finally deal with the SPS that you are sitting in government, which has been robbing this nation and this country for 25 years. Turn me off again, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22186	You're saying again that someone's robbing the state, Mr. Obradovic, and very directly. (Bosko Obradovic: Not directly, I speak so. Is that what you're talking about? I give you a warning, Mr. Beard, for such a speech. Because I first warned you that you can't talk about the National Assembly and you can't qualify someone as a thief and rob them. This is what competent institutions and competent authorities do. Serbia is a legal and orderly state. You can talk about the amendment to Article 5 if you want. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22187	Mr. Chairman, you've given me a warning now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22188	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22189	Because I said something that the whole public knows. If we had been robbed in the past 27 years as a nation and state, that someone had destroyed our big firms...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22190	Not someone, you were very specific.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22191	... that someone privatized the state, that someone took who knows what of this country and didn't answer for it. So, why didn't I say what was true? Where's the fight against crime and corruption? Where are the politicians and tycoons in prison? Where is the truth about all the affairs behind which the SPS stands? I didn't make them up. These are public affairs, which have never been processed, where in fact all these cases ended up in police drawers, the prosecution and the judiciary. Why? Because you're in power, Mr. Chairman. That's what I'm talking about. Someone's ridding you of your responsibility. You needed SNS to have the ruling majority. She says, well, we'll take the SPS, even though the SPS is a former regime. Instead of ending the SPS, or certain people in the SPS who were in certain positions, behind which are certain affairs, to be prosecuted and prosecuted...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22192	You speak very vividly. Would you like to talk about the amendment to Article 5?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22193	Tell me, what have I done to offend anyone?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22194	You said very directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22195	Did I meet with Darko Saric and his men or the leader of your party? Have I offended anyone by saying what's true and what the whole public knows? You shut me out again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22196	You have spoken very specifically to my distinguished SPS colleagues. No matter what I belong to that parliamentary group, I would react in this way if it were any other parliamentary group. You said very specifically and directly – stolen, thieves, criminals. I first warned you very correctly and told you that you could not present such qualifications in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and asked you to talk about the amendment to Article 5. You kept talking and re-branded identical qualifications. So, you can, of course, in your own way, paint your speech, but I ask you to be about the amendment to Article 5, if you like.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22197	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much for the opportunity to speak at all in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is indeed a great range of Serbian democracy that someone from the opposition can speak at all in the National Assembly without you interrupting it six times and not turn off his microphone. It is an incredible step for Serbian democracy, so that in this assembly you can speak. Now I'm going back to what I've tried many ways to explain, and you're interrupting me. Why are we against the National Academy of State Administration? Because we don't trust you. Because we don't believe you that this is really going to be a professional training academy for government employees. Are we forbidden to trust you with anything? You have to understand that. We don't trust you in power because for 25 years you've been specifically you from the SPS in power and because six years has been concrete to the SNS together with you in power. This is the former regime that you are constantly talking about, and you are the biggest DOS and peak of the DOS since 5 October 2000, because today with you it is all the worst that was in the DOS on 5 October 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22198	I'm a colleague of Ododovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22199	Are you interrupting me again?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22200	I interrupt you and I will interrupt you whenever you do not talk about what is the agenda point, and we are currently talking about an amendment to Article 5. (Bosko Obradovic: About the National Academy. Don't talk, Mr. Obradovic, about the National Academy. You're getting too far from the subject. Do you want to talk about the amendment to Article 5? (Bosko Obradovic: Of course I do. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22201	So, Mr. Chairman, you've already four times interrupted me in just one speech, which clearly says that you want to prevent the voice of the opposition and a different opinion from being heard in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So in order for you to establish the National Academy of State Administration, you have to have credibility for that. You don't have one. I would believe you and I would vote first for this law if there was a member here who would first fire those who are party employees and then review all the diplomas of those who work in the state sector. If Mr Branko Ruzic, the minister, had proposed such a law where all the diplomas purchased would be examined, and then the National Academy of State Administration would be created, which would indeed professionally perfect those who work in the state administration, you would have our vote for such a law, regardless of what we are to you opposition. We are not an opposition to Serbia and we are not an opposition to the state. Everything good for the state has our support. But you're not good for the state, you're bad for the state. Because you've been ruling for so long, and you leave behind nothing but affairs, and you don't promote the work of the state administration. That's why you can't believe that you're going to build a truly National Academy of State Administration, but we all have reasonable doubts that you're going to create a party academy for further employment and the advancement of your party employees in the state administration. I can understand that you're going to shut me down five more times because you can't stand it when someone's telling you the truth in your face, but I won't give it up, it's my duty to tell you the truth in your face, because it's the job of the opposition. You can't be trusted. You're a government that lasts too long. The SPS has been in power for 25 years, and the advances are six years in power. You violated all your pre-election promises. Where's your suspension of state agencies? It is clear that you are actually trying in a new way to use and abuse the state administration for your party interests. We all know that the party-parasitic system is the cancer of this society, and we all know that it will not surely be solved by Branko Ruzic, one of the more visible people of the SPS. Well, someone who's part of the cancer can't handle it. You can't have someone who's got a disease, like a diseased tissue in one organism, which is your party, to solve the problem of party employment, party directors, party ministers, who actually work all the time in the interest of the party, and never in the interest of the people and the state. In fact, this is why we in all of these members have "expunged" and therefore we insist that this is not the National National Academy of State Administration, but the party Academy of the SPS and the SNS, which continue to destroy this people and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22202	You can see you're not interrupting, colleague Obradovic. (Ivan Kostic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I've seen you, Mr. Kostic, but before you came forward Mr. Risticevic. You'll get the word, of course. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22203	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising articles 106, 108, 109 and 110. Mr. Chairman, I welcome that you are extremely liberal towards the opposition. Not too much, because you felt the intention of someone here playing martyr and at any cost asking for a measure of distance from the session. Please count the warnings the previous speaker received. With that in mind, as far as I know, a third measure of caution has been given at this session, after two next steps of taking words. So please, I'm not really into it, since the speaker is just trying to get it out of the chairman, so I'm asking you to withdraw this third warning and let the previous speaker speak, because everything he says best about himself and what he's trying to represent himself here as martyrs the people will clearly assess, as he estimated at yesterday's meeting where he responded, with DS leadership, around 30 people. So I ask you to count these warnings, to withdraw the last one, if that's the third one, and to allow individual speakers to be baffled in the way they've already done these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22204	Thank you. Comrade Rističević, you can see that it is impossible to balance. You say I'm too liberal, some opposition MP groups say I won't let them speak. It is impossible to achieve balance, and it is impossible to predict what the messengers of the people will talk about. I try, as far as I can, to the point where I feel that one of the MPs has strayed from the agenda to suggest that he return to what is the current topic of the assembly session, and that is what I do when it comes to MPs of the position and when it comes to MPs of the opposition. I just did that when it comes to distinguished Professor Atlagic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? (No) I thank you. The injury of the Rules of Procedure, the word first has a folk MP Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22205	Chairman, you've injured Article 27. - that you are obliged to take care of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. So, you will, of course, withdraw this warning, because there's no reason to warn him because he said that in the past 25 years, the SPS has been involved in robbing the state. So there's no lie, no insult. There are trials against certain individuals on SPS members who participated in the robbery of state banks. What's this about? Don't hang up. So, that's true, that's what the public knows about and you with this kind of behavior, constantly, but in the course of this entire session, you're introducing this Assembly into a totalitarian dictatorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22206	The dictatorship? Thank you, Mr. Bones. (Ivan Kostic: Please, why did you shut me out? ) I fully respect Article 27, and I am trying to see order at the National Assembly session, that MPs at the session respect the reputation and dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Because of the offensive exposure, very directly directed towards colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group, I once suggested, after the second time I gave a warning. Do you want the People's Assembly in voting day to declare the injury displayed? (John Kostic: Please, and freedom of speech.) I'll realize you don't want to. Replica, MP Neđo Jovanovic
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22207	I thank the chairman. For the SPS parliamentary group, this is nothing new, only maybe new to the citizens involved in a car screening, which is regrettable that the parliamentary group that I'm replicating has failed to reach power, and that it is doing exactly what it is telling us to do. Unfortunately, he will never be able, nor will he succeed, given that he will not be citizens. The Socialist Party of Serbia is proud of its 27 years of existence, and will exist and will be in power exactly as Serbian citizens want it, but I am sure that the parliamentary group and the entire party of speakers that I am replicating will not exist after the next elections. It will not be because it spreads destruction, not because it is the most constructive political option since the creation of a political scene in the state of Serbia. The most destructive for many reasons. The destruction that is spreading in the electoral commission through the relentless attack of RIK members, through the beating of media members, through the introduction of various building materials such as stones, etc., I do not know in what sense and in what way. And finally, Mr. Chairman, with the harshest kind of destruction in this House, the humiliation of citizens when the microphones of the Parliament's presidents, when in one rude, uncultured, absolutely uncivilized way, members of this political group behave, not according to this House, but towards the citizens of Serbia who insult in the deepest way. If it is not enough for Serbian citizens to recognise that this political group no longer has a future, I don't know what else it might be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22208	You have, Mr. Obradic, a basis for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, correct on your part. What is said here now, we are listening, of course, a long time ago, and it is clear that when the government has no arguments of use of insult but it is positive for us for the simple reason which means that our arguments are strong and accurate, because the president of the SPS parliamentary group would say something about what I said, that there is something to say otherwise. But given that there is nothing to say and that Serbian citizens know well that I told the truth when I spoke about party employment by the SPS and SNS, he had to turn the topic to the other side. To tell you the truth, there's no such problem here as the SPS; because the SPS wouldn't have been in power if it hadn't been taken by the SNS, and the SNS is attacking the former regime in which the SPS was involved, and it doesn't seek the responsibility of the SPS, nor is it questioning any criminal affair behind which the people of the SPS stand. So it's the SNS' fault that he made it possible for the SPS to be in power today. The SNS is guilty of standing in drawers, not only those who have committed crimes, and behind them is the SPS, but everyone else who has committed crimes and no one has been prosecuted. So, the key to the problem is the SNS that hid it in the prosecution's drawers, police and courts's truth about the state's summit and the crime summit. That is why MP Srdjan Nogo was expelled from the session, as he asked a parliamentary question and tried to point to the lead between the country's summit with Alexander Vukic and the top of the criminal groups in Serbia. Of course, the SPS wouldn't leave out all that, because 27 years, in fact, with the SPS, is working and a paracriminal structure which, of course, has not been prosecuted at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22210	Replica, MP Nedja Jovanovic. Here you go. Please reapply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22211	I said it once, and I'm going to say it again, the worst thing is when someone calls to say something and doesn't say anything, and what they say is completely pointless, and most importantly, absolutely unfounded. One more thing that is important to repeat – as many as citizens trust a foreigner, so many parties survive. Twenty-seven years of survival is not small. This MP group, which tells us what it is, will never experience it, especially their representatives in this House that I am sure, not only do they not have a political future, but they have no elemental ethics or ethical code, because if they had in any case, at least in this Parliament and in front of these citizens, they would not be deceived, if no one else who and how well they knew what was done recently in this home, a few days ago one of the people's MPs of this political group had shown behaviour that is not only inappropriate, but the behavior that must in no way represent a picture of this house towards the citizens of Serbia. What has been trying all along, trying to elaborate for failure in the elections recently held, a flagrant violation of the electoral will of citizens when this political group entered this parliament, because it is a very unusual way not to talk about what happened on the election committee the night of the decision to enter this political group into this parliament. The citizens will recognize it and there will be no next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22212	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. First of all, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And this time I'm going to point out that really when you're in charge of a session, I think that's the way that allows and confronts attitudes and opinions, but this time, in my opinion, you've violated Article 109. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, for you did not give a warning to a previous speaker who used offensive expressions. Namely, he said that representatives of the parliamentary group, Mr. Bosko Obradovic, I am the representative of the Serbian Democratic Movement Group of Serbia, do not have the elemental ethics and ethical code. Here, now we've had a chance to hear from a fellow SNS, and I'd like to explain to you in the hallway what's not true. I can always talk. I don't know why an esteemed colleague came to the conclusion that representatives of a parliamentary group have no elemental ethics. Here, I would also like my colleague Jovanovic to explain this to me publicly, which is why I have no elementary ethics and basic ethical code. I really don't know how long it's going to go with the insults expressed to the MPs of the Serbian Movement of the Dvora, and that for a year I've been sitting in this building, we've only given one warning to the representatives of the government. Over 40-50 warnings to opposition representatives. I'll accept that there are 30 right in those 50, but I've heard so much insult on my behalf, the chairman, because I'm a member of that parliamentary group, I'm not ashamed of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22214	I thank my colleague Ristic. I feel that I did not violate Article 109, and you know that I respect and respect all of this, and I am sorry that you did not notice that, in the opening statement used by Mr Obradovic, I did not respond, but I did react at the time, I explained it a little while, when he spoke directly and tried to suggest. The second time, he identically addressed the SPS parliamentary group, then I reacted. The congregation had one normal flow until it entered a discussion where words were used - fraud, deception, lies, and then we went completely wrong. I don't think I've hurt Article 109. I'm asking you, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. No, I don't. ) Replica, MP Vladimir Orlic, mentioned by counterpart Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22215	You from the party, Mr. Chairman and the party president. First it's so shy in the system, I hope they didn't hear me, and then it gets more rude. It is no news, and unfortunately we are already used to the constant doing of the one who has obviously become aware of his political negativity, so he hopes that by continuing to mention himself surely better, than himself certainly smarter, than himself, he will certainly be more courageous and able to act something more politically relevant. He won't, if he hasn't learned it by now, he'll never learn. As far as ethics is concerned, I'm not going to comment specifically, the one who doesn't see the problem of knocking a woman in the face, he doesn't need to be explained anything about ethics. It will never be clear to him what is contentious and how one should behave, so that he can look back on a term such as ethics, those who, of course, deserve reminders by the fact that the lack of this ethics, but also by the lack of some civilized behavior, enter into the home of the National Assembly, as far as there is nothing questionable why anyone from this session is excluded. To answer the question of party employment, it's very easy, but it has to be understood and it has to be heard in order to understand, when he's not here all day he doesn't hear. In the public administration, 38,000 are less employees since 2013, so where are these great people, where is this famous partocrat? What does he do, in general, to whom he gave his first job in life along the party political line Velimir Ilic, in a library in their common hometown, which deals with the issue, where does he have the idea of doing it? Did Velimir Ilic, or perhaps because of Dragan Gilas, who formed the association, which formed his campaign, pay for the materials and give money, do it it itch, and deal with political and similar relationships? If he wants to attract attention, as he tried during the 2017 campaign, he should learn lessons. We advised him then, he offered too much, so no one cut him 2%, he's doing the same thing today. I'll finish with this, Mr. Chairman, if he's already doing this and he's dealing with the question, how did he say - perfecting his staff, ask Dragan Gilas to put his campaign singer on a solfego, maybe that's the result.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22216	I thank my colleague Orlic. As I said a little bit, I think we're getting too far from the subject. This was a replica of Mr. Obradovic's previous exposure. A huge number of MPs have applied, I see that they point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure and insist on replicas. I'll use my right, consistent with Article 112, and I'll take a two-minute break to get back on the agenda. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs were submitted by Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22218	Dear Vice President, given the last days of what has been happening in the National Assembly by some of the people's jobs of the opposition and taking into account the rationalization of time and the use of time in some of the more necessary things, I am giving up the interpretation of the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22219	I thank my colleague Atlagic. The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22220	Article 108 is a debate on amendments, and there is a possibility, although quite rare, that the proposing accepts the amendment. Since there are no proposing representatives here, and that's the minister, we have to stop working until he gets back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22221	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. I agree completely with you. We will take a five-minute break until a proposing representative, or Minister Ruzic, appears. [[after breaks]] Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think we now have the conditions to continue our work. According to the amendment to Article 5, Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22223	Ladies and gentlemen, this member, including this amendment, the National Academy wants to introduce the public service and among public servants of order. And our people love the order, and there's no order across the line, and that's why I want this Article 5 in the amendment and in the basic text to remain in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22224	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Zdravko Stankovic and Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted the 5th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22225	Here again, we are going round the circle, i.e. around citing "couch" and "couchinga" in the official use of Serbian language, which certainly means this act, i.e. the bill that will become law in the near future. We believe from the Independent Members' Club that this is not an appropriate way to state one legal reading and propose to delete it, because erasure of this term absolutely does not damage the content and intention of this position, or the point in the law, but contributes to what the ruling majority insists. It would be nice to accept this, to cultivate a Serbian language and, according to this and last week's debate, when I repeat, we were accused of hating the Serbian people, here in the presence of Serbian Filipovic accused me of hating the Serbian people and the state and of having genocide intentions because I suggested that in public use, in educational laws, a Serbian Latin letter was recognised as the same as the Serbian Cyrillic letter, and that did not happen. This, of course, raises the question, and what will your “coachs ” do? We haven't heard from Minister Ruzic since the beginning of today's debate that he said anything about any amendment, and I would like him to make that clear. Even if this is thought to be one of the instruments, this National Academy, for additional funds, since we see commercial services, especially from the European Union, or the European Commission, that it will be able to get, I will only ask Mr Ruzic to pass on, for example, the impressions of Gjorge Stanic and the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities – how many representatives of the European Commission suffer headache and get their hair on their heads because, to this day, there are no precise data as to how much money has been spent in reforming the state administration and that there has never been any precise information on how much money in the Republic of Serbia has been invested in what you are now presenting to us as a reform, as a new start, as something that needs to be a milestone and qualitative improvement of state officials in further work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22226	Thank you, colleague Tepic. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and Tatjana Macura. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) National MPs submitted to the 6th Amendment in the same text: together with Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Dubravko Bojić and together Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22227	Mr. Minister, you inherited this idea and this law from Ana Brnabic, who announced it not only in the exposé, but from Tirana in May, when she said that, in fact, as a third pillar in our society, the state administration must reform itself, and she also mentioned a colleague of Radeta, it was announced by ministers both before and before you and before Anna Brnabic and none of that. That this Dosmanian government, after 2000 and finally, the government in which you were in a coalition with the Democratic Party, is saying the fact that we have always had, and now we have a new, General Administrative Procedure Act, the Law that gives us the opportunity for the state administration to operate on the basis of positive legal rules. Even before World War II, Serbia had a highly developed state administration and a school for state administration, and today we need to invent hot water, i.e. you, and to establish some national academy, and all the laws that are in force in Serbia, if you choose personnel properly, by knowledge, expertise and quality, can be managed by administrative procedure, which is very important, future administrative procedure, implemented without all benefiting citizens. Various research has been conducted in segments of our society, where citizens are most unhappy with the functioning of the state administration. I don't have time to talk about it anymore, but it doesn't take any new study, no courses, and especially in this Article 6, what you have predicted – recognised organizers of adult education activities or trainers who have at least the same level and type of education. You know, we've seen everything in our society when it comes to various NGOs and individuals who had and today have open doors here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to give us all kinds of lectures. Even some dared to hold “couchs, ” as you call it, trainings, in Arangelovac, in a hotel, how to behave and what role to have a National MP. So you're starting to put everything wrong in society. Instead of the people you've educated in high schools, in colleges, using their knowledge, positive selection, you're doing this kind of stupidity. In the end, you remember that, Mr. Ruzic, as well as your other colleagues from the Socialist Party of Serbia, as well as all citizens living in the territory of the Zemun municipality, the way the state administration works and how the civil servants have shown themselves in that viewing municipality. From 1996 to 2000, everything worked impeccably as a service of citizens and everywhere we exercise power and where we will be in a position, and we believe that after the next elections in the Republic government, we will do everything we can to make a positive selection and that our personnel are working in the interests of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22228	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22229	Dear Vice President, bearing in mind the events of the previous days in this high house, caused by the irresponsible behaviour of some MPs of the minor opposition political groups, and by saving time in order to rationalise our work, the honourable Vice President, I give up the reasoning of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22230	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. The word is proposed by the amendment, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22231	Ladies and gentlemen, this member has been regulated to implement the program. Our people love fair, but some of them would be over the line. It's not fair through a relationship, and that's why it's good for the National Academy to establish this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22232	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dejan Šulkic and Milan Lapcevic. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22233	Thank you, Chairman. Article 6 The bill defines co-operation with other publicly recognised activity organisers and interested persons. I'm undermining this -- and the interested faces, and I'll tell you why. The National Academy can carry out professional training programmes on its own provided that it has a sufficient number of professional staff. In case they are not here, the bill says – along with other publicly recognised institutions, it can implement the programme, of course, if they have licensed lecturers and if they meet their conditions regarding space, equipment, etc. We have intervened here with the amendment to Item 3 where it is said – for the implementation of training programmes, persons who meet the conditions regarding personnel, equipment and space can be accredited. We have added "legal persons" here because we are simply afraid, I am now bound by this: "and interested persons", that in the competition for accreditation not only will some professors from higher education institutions, who has accreditation from research organisations where also accreditation is not disputed, but some persons will appear, I am afraid this one here so often mentioned "couchs", wonderful Serbian words, and who will easily lease space, equipment, hire these teachers, because these are going to be so popular and modern today, perhaps in some shortcut to get this, call, state business very well paid. That's why we say that here we need to make sure that they're legal persons, preferably with some references, not to be organized overnight, and only in the morning do some people show up to apply for this very, very lucrative job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22234	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Zdravko Stankovic and Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Maja Vidinović, Tomislav Žigmanov, Goran Jesic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukovic together submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 6th amendment. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22235	In the principle debate, we have already said that we find it unnecessary to establish such an academy, that there are scientific institutions, that there are institutions on higher education, secondary education that are competent enough to educate public administration staff, and if there is a need for some specialist or special education from that area, that can be done by the same institutions, so high school for that level and colleges for the level needed for higher education. There's no need to create a paravaspital organization that, I said, as soon as you tell me national, I get scared, because nationalally, when you're saying it, you're proposing in the '90s, it's always been some kind of theft or some loss, or we've lost something or someone's been stealing, which comes to the same thing. We've given you some amendments to show you that maybe it could have been done in a way that was honest, honest, with the intention that you wanted to do something good. This is one of those amendments. In Article 6, we ask that the word “funds” be deleted, so that Article 6(4) of point 3 reads: “Foods (furthers, computers, projectors, presentation tables, etc.) which are necessary for the implementation of the programme. “ Why and “the Funds ”? What is mentioned in the brackets – furniture, computers, projectors, presentation boards are means, and what is equipment? I'd like the minister to give me an explanation of what the difference between equipment and resources is, and why is it necessary to put each other on? If you convince me of that, we might think that you have good intentions with the establishment of this national institution of the latest rank and that it won't be the evening school for the bad staff you've hired along with coalition partners in the last five, six years. Of course, that kind of employment has been before, but that doesn't mean that it should continue. So, Minister, can you tell me the difference between equipment and means?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22236	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. The amendment to which article 6 is added after article 6a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric, does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which is added after article 6a, was submitted jointly by the MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Maja Vidinović, Tomislav Žigmanov, Goran Jesic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic. Does anyone want to say that? (No) The amendment, which is added to the title after article 6, and a new member of the 7th, together was submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Diana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs together Zoran Krasic, Bozidar Delic and Nikola Savić together with Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić submitted to the 7th amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22237	This article refers to special professional bodies. We have requested an amendment to delete this member, since we do not accept such a bill and this concept at all. We have put into account what is the proposal's position on the issue of public administration at all, so, without adopting this amendment, they have virtually denied all that is written in their Strategy for State Administration Reform and the Action Plan for State Administration Reform. However, I am taking the opportunity to draw attention to you that we have a large number of experts who, let's say, have a basic degree in physics, machine engineers, etc., and wave around Serbia with some special diplomats that are masters of state administration reform. So, let's say, that Jeremy guy, that's, say, at the Shutanovec. Everyone's got some speciality about the state administration. Formal-legal, they meet the conditions to be cobwebs, so, chicos. They can be. You can hire them, too. Why? Because already under the existing rule, I need to draw attention to you, you now have a rule on criteria and conditions for accreditation of the realisation program of professional training officers in units, for example, local self-government. Mr. Ruzic, that was brought before you were elected minister. The previous minister chose that. There are legal criteria in this Regulation and you have criteria for natural persons. Here it is, the criteria – the conditions for accreditation of natural persons are: that it has at least completed secondary education. So this nuclear physicist from Cambridge, who has a subspecialization for the state administration, would be trained there. There's, of course, Sonja Licht's staff, they're all experts on state administration, they know that. This group is where these managers, management, come to you. We have education management. I wouldn't be surprised if management was introduced in the administration. We also have hospital management, we have management everywhere, all the managers. That's what it is: they get together, they make a degree, and they can give lectures. Of course, they teach for money, they don't give lectures because they love the EU. They don't do it for nothing on behalf of the EU, but the EU gives them money, it directs them to the ministry, now to the National Academy, and then it comes as that water heater. You flush cold water, put in EU electricity, and they take hot water. And you're making me vote for the water heater bill. Of course we Serbian radicals can't support that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22238	Thank you. The amendment is proposed by the National MP Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22239	Thank you. The Courts remain that the National Academy of State Administration will be nothing more than the most ordinary party service of the ruling SNS and SPS parties, which will use all methods to place the state administration in the role of their party interests. So the programming council, which is predicted here, is not something that solves any problem if you have party employees of the parties sitting in the state administration, if those who have bought diplomas sit, so they have taken a place for those who have really studied and have real diplomas. As we can see, Minister Ruzic has been avoiding answering any question of Serbia's Dvora movement for several days, and it is clear to him that there is no answer to the question when those with purchased diplomats in the state administration will leave the state administration. How many employees are there that are members of the SPS? How many members of the SNS? They're, I'd say, the most numerous with purchased diplomas. Clearly, you can't hit yourself. Clearly, you can't pursue your own members you've hired in the state administration, let alone question their purchased diplomas or PhDs that are plagiarized. So it's clear that there's nothing you can do in the state administration system while the party party-parasitic system is in place. That's what we're talking about here. You can tell us that you have the Employment Prohibition Regulation, and in fact you've been working on temporary and occasional contracts all the time, and all the public enterprises are full, and there's no room to sit in offices anymore, because you've hired your party people everywhere who have served you faithfully in election cycles before that. That's the real truth about this law, Mr. Minister, and you, of course, keep your mouth shut, because you know what I'm saying is true. If you had anything to say the other way around, you'd probably take your word for it. It is clear that you are silent because I am saying what all Serbian citizens know, that the cancer of this society is party employment, that young people are leaving this country because they can't get a job with a real diploma, because your party staff have occupied the entire state administration with bought diplomas, because your ministers, your mayors, have actually bought diplomas or even written their doctorates, which someone else has written to them, who have plagiarized. You can't reveal any such affair, and we can trust you to actually create the National Academy of State Administration and that everything will be fair there and that honorable, professional and valuable people, whom there is no doubt in the state administration, will be able to advance in the state administration. Well, you'll never be able to advance while your party parasites rule the state, while your party people are in all responsible functions. How does anyone get along with you? How come next to you, where you have several leading SPS people sitting, how can someone else be making progress in your ministry, Mr. Ruzic? Explain to me how, when you surrounded party people. Does this mean that someone would get a job in Serbia must have an SPS booklet, that they must have a SNS bookbook? Does this mean that you no longer operate employment institutions, but that the moment you want to get a job, you have to go join the SNS or the SPS? Is that a way to live in Serbia? Can no one live differently in Serbia except as a member of the SPS or SNS? Well, what kind of life is that? That's why young people leave Serbia because they can't watch your party-parasitic system, yours, so to speak, using state resources for your own personal party purposes. And you're gonna keep your mouth shut again because you have nothing to say, because you've been doing it for 25 years and you know you've been doing it for 25 years. They also know that the advances who took you into power and know how guilty you are for the previous period when you were part of several former regimes, but they forgave you all to be with you now. That's how justice works and the fight against crime and corruption from the corner of Alexander Vukic and the SNS. If you're with us in power, you can steal and do whatever you want. Then you're not the former regime, then you're a nice SPS and then Branko Ruzic can become a minister, even though before that, he took a picture with fans who yelled "Wolf Gay".
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22240	Comrade Obradovic, shall we return to the amendment to Article 7? Thank you, Mr. Obradich. According to the amendment, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22241	Thank you, Chairman. Unlike the parrot's story, which has already definitely sickened the citizens of Serbia and which is no longer even a stereotype, but an extremely degutant story, I have to point to the essence of Serbia's citizens. The essence is diametrically different from the nonsense that has been said. Essentially, the National Academy of State Administration is not an educational institution, not - educational institution of the nature and legal nature and status of educational institutions such as schools, universities, etc. It is a specific programme of professional training and education. Well, if the National Academy of State or Public Administration has many countries in Europe, what are we looking for in the end, why wouldn't Serbia have it? Especially for those justifiable reasons contained in this law. Especially because it prevents exactly what is being instructed – it is partocracies and party employment. Especially since there will be no financial manipulation and malfeasance, given that the provisions of the Public Procurement Act are strictly implemented. Especially because they will be forced to engage in the most credible, but not because of profits, but because of those who need to be given knowledge. After all, these programmes include those who are part of the state administration, or public administration, so if they participate in it, then is it important, then, is it important that they do so at their workplace or through the National Academy of State Administration? Well, it's important because they haven't been able to do it through their jobs so far. Because so far they have not been able to achieve the degree of education necessary. After all, and most importantly, how else are we going to level administrative practice than through the National Academy of State Administration? How are we going to prevent different actions from city to city, from municipality to municipality? How else are we going to prevent discrimination against citizens who are being serviced by the needs of the state administration? How are we going to do this to serve the needs of citizens to raise them to a higher level? Just like this. I must, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the People, my fellow Members, point out one example that absolutely devalues everything that has been said by the amendment's promoter, which is the city of Uzice. There are SNS and SPS authorities along with their coalition partners. These two parties, as headquarters parties, kept in the state administration, in the public sector all those who had previously been in other parties, regardless of whether they were positional or opposition, which means both from the DS, from the SRS, from the SPO, from all parties that preceded their arrival to the SPS and SNS authorities, all 62 people sitting in the state administration, are back seven, eight, nine, ten years in the public sector. Did the SNS and the SPS watch their belongings? No, I don't. She watched their efforts, assessed their work, assessed what quality in work means, quality in providing services to citizens, service of their needs, and that's why these people are here. Where's the Honorable Minister Ruzic? Partocrats? Where's what we're being so rudely told we're working on some kind of party employment? On the contrary, no. What also makes this amendment absolutely inadmissible is the fact that the mere rhetoric of erasure brings the whole meaning of the law, that is, the purpose of the law. That is why this amendment should not be accepted in any case and therefore it should be at least that part of the MPs who recognises the citizens' excessive interest to support the text of the law as already defined in this proposal that you, honourable Mr Ruzic, have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22242	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22243	I thank the chairman. I believe you've injured Article 107. By not warning your previous colleague that he is not threatening the House of the National Assembly of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in relation to their party and political membership, the Rules of Procedure. At the moment that fellow Jovanovic began to talk about the case positive, according to his view, the town of Užica and how the rest of the employees, even those civil servants who are members of the DS, he sent a threatening message to all our citizens to keep records per unit of local self-government – who is in which party organisation. This must not be done, especially if the message is sent from the National Assembly’s pay phone. We know it's done, but don't text like that without blinking, sending from this tall home. And that even more citizens should be grateful that no one has touched them and that you are setting an example of Užica, that they remain in a working relationship even if they are members of another political organisation. I ask you, the chairman, to draw attention to your colleagues so they may not behave in the National Assembly because I am experiencing it, as are the citizens who have chosen me here, as threatening messages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22244	Thank you, colleague Tepic. I don't think I've hurt Article 107. Through the example of Užica, counterpart Jovanovic explained why the amendment to Article 7 should not be accepted, and I did not take it as any kind of intimidation or threat he intended to make to anyone. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I thank you. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22245	Dear Vice President, keeping in mind the misbehaviors of some MPs in recent days from a minor political group, saving time by giving up the reasons for the amendment and giving up time for their retraining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22246	I thank my colleague Atlagic. The word is proposed by the amendment, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22247	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, professional bodies, the Programme Council, etc., should enable the administration not to pile up cases to prove that it is necessary and necessary for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22248	I thank my colleague Rističević. The amendments to the same text were submitted by MPs together Vjerica Radeta, Tomislav LJubenović and Vesna Nikolić Vukajlović and joint MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić. The word has a folk MP Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22249	Just because the Ministry of Local Self-Government has given such a law to us MPs, it gives us the right to actually conclude that the Ministry of Local Self-Government has not figured out what it means to reform public administration. The public administration reform is completely different from what you're doing right now. What you're doing right now by making one of the National Academy is actually one completely wrong way. What it took for you to define how to reform public administration is to see well what it is that bothers citizens at this point in the functioning of local authorities and all other state authorities. You didn't deal with it, you don't know the real problems of the citizens, you don't know where these problems come from, and you don't know how to solve them. What's the problem? The problem is that you have no good intentions towards citizens, to make public administration public service citizens, because citizens finance this public administration, right. As far as local self-government is concerned, all you had to do was go outside the municipality building or city service, etc. And ask the citizens what it is that they couldn't finish in the city administration today, and they left. Where did they have problems? What I can say from my experience is that no department in city halls has anything to do with any other departments. It won't connect the National Academy, it'll connect the mayor of the city's administration. How do you choose? It's political, unfortunately. How does it work? By order of the mayor. Who's the mayor? It's usually not a lawyer, a veterinarian, a doctor or something, some engineer, etc., a pharmacist or something. How now a prominent graduate lawyer who is usually the head of the city's administration will implement legal solutions, norms and how he will connect those departments when he does not have the mayor's support. Why isn't there any backup? Because the mayor didn't come to arrange the city's administration in the right way, to make it accessible to citizens and to serve citizens, but to come, what? Why do you think one mayor, mayor? That's what we talked about all the time. It means he's conducting the political instructions he has from the center of power. You've centralized this country to the point that it was initially a cobajagi democratic, and then it was a part-departmental state, so the tycoon state, and now you've made it or you're making it this way to be a single directoral state. The directors will mainly be elected by the ministry, so it is in education, in local self-government, or the minister. The Prime Minister is elected by the Government, or the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is elected by the party. We've now completely centralized everything we have in this country. We no longer have rights, we no longer have freedom, we no longer have any democracy. What are the directors doing? They fire and they pick employees. That's terrible. Let's get back to local self-government. You know that the mayor of the city's administration is elected by political, coalition agreement, and as long as it's chosen by political coalition agreements, there's nothing he can do in the city administration. I ask you all to understand that this Academy is absolutely no solution to any problem we have on the ground in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22250	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Branka Stamenkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22251	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 128. The MPs are obliged to carry the identification cards with them when leaving the National Assembly. If the MP leaves the hall, the service of the National Assembly will immediately deliver that card to the Secretary General of the National Assembly and the card will be returned to the MP upon entering the hall. Please, I've already had this remark at the second session. Maybe she could record the camera for the citizens. Last time I intervened, the officers didn't pick up these cards, they just pulled them out. I ask that according to the Rules of Procedure, they take the cards to the Secretary-General. Please, the Management Board is coming to the post office, people are having work disputes about whether they were in session or not, and as evidence they're taking a copy of the electronic system. So there's no need to do this. It is not difficult to remove this breach of the Rules of Procedure, and if we remove it, then there is no need to vote. If the service doesn't pick up, then I'll insist on voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22252	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. First, we will act accordingly to Article 128, i.e. to ask the Technical Service to act in accordance with Article 128, as clearly and precisely defined by Article 128. - MPs who are not in the O.R., and their cards are in the electronic system, please send them to the Secretary General of the National Assembly. Thank you. The word is proposed by the amendment to Article 8, MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, the amendment was to delete a member who spoke of setting up a program council. So, probably this member, who best describes how it would work right before me, might have been talking about a respected colleague who said he was preventing partocracies from preventing partocracies, and this member is perfectly saying that he doesn't seem to be preventing any partocracies. I will tell you that according to the proposal, the programme council is composed of a president and 14 members appointed and resolved by the Director of the National Academy. The Director of the National Academy shall be appointed by the Government, i.e. at the proposal of the Secretary-General. The minister is from the SPS. Direct associates as we can see are from the SPS. The director will probably also be from the SPS, and this gets another new dimension when we say something that is otherwise right, that the president and members of the programming council for their work have the right to compensation. That's what we're supposed to have, and we should have those who work. But there will be direct people here who are closely linked to members of the ruling coalition. Before me, an esteemed colleague cited the town of Uzice as an example of good work. Since Mr. Ruzic is Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, I will not ask him, because I know very well that he knows about the city of Kraljevo and is very often coming to the Kingdom and is in good relations with the leadership of his party in the city of Kralje. Do you know, Mr. Minister, that every member of the SPS in the last council of the city of Kings, means as a councilman, has hired himself or his close family member in any body of the administration or public enterprise founded by the city? How can I believe this is a stop partocrat when I see what I see? So it's best, not just this member, but all the members are deleted, and that's why we suggested it. Regardless of all the insults we suffer and whatever the two representatives of the parliamentary group are excluded from the work of the Assembly and no matter what risk we are constantly getting warnings, we will of course continue to ask questions and regardless of how certain we are that no answer to any of these questions I have asked will be received. You in the law, by the way, provided that you would be employed at the shortest time interval, you would say five appointed and employed persons in accordance with Article 61(3) in 2017. In 2018 you predict the employment of 30 more people in this academy. Whether it will be 30 responsible persons belonging to the SPS or an older SNS coalition partner. I'd like to get an answer at least to one of these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22254	I thank my colleague Vesovic. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22255	I thank the Honorable Chairman. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is of course a desire for me to, above all, point out some of the things that are being put here for no reason, and I would also ask the MPs of the opposition who have the legitimate right to criticise, to deal with populism, to still attend and not to speak falsely about the answers to the questions they asked on the first day. The assembly atmosphere and the responsibility of working in the Assembly requires that if you participate, you participate in full capacity, not 10, 15 or 20 minutes, and then you leave and do not hear what is the resolution minister in this case, my little one, replied. But, well, that's not so important. First and foremost, because of these people sitting here next to me, I just want to direct you to facts. The resolution ministry has seven assistants or assistant ministers, none of them members of any party, whether SNS, SPS, Dveri Movement, DS or some fifth, sixth or seventh. It's so-called. The institutional memory of people working in all ministries for years is committed to reform and public administration reform is carried out. As for the appointed persons, or special ones in the cabinet, so of course every minister has the right to choose these people, I don't see what's controversial about it. As for professional training, I would like to have Mr. Obradovic, by any chance, stayed in that library, and he would have had the opportunity to professionally perfect himself, as part of that public administration, and I think it is also important that you point out whether you respect your MP, given that, unfortunately, who is not present, is excluded because...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22256	Thank you, Mr. Rose.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22257	Excuse me, one more second.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22258	Here you go. Which was excluded from the session, and ask him where his father was, in which party in those last 25 years, which you said was a robbery. (Marinika Tepic: Rules of Procedure. ) Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Parliament of Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22260	I thank the chairman. By continuing the session and giving me the word in the Rules of Procedure, not drawing attention to Minister Ruzic, you have just confirmed a previous violation of article 107, that is, the dignity of the National Assembly. I ask the President, to distract the minister, that even in that little address he has here in front of the MPs, he has no right to preach to the MPs as long as we speak or not, whether we sit here or not. People's MPs can follow the meeting, and when they're not in the O.R., and everything they don't follow, he's not the one who's supposed to preach to them about it, especially not to replicate it this way. Especially the messengers who are not present. I ask you to distract him or to give him a break of a few minutes, to inform him, to inform him, because he is not a man without experience, so he cannot treat the MPs in the National Assembly, and then when we discuss the law he should be resolute about, which he has been silent about since 30 minutes, he first took the word after three hours, and then he honors the MPs as much as he talks or doesn't talk about, and whether he is there or not. I sit neatly all the time and I am very invited to talk about spending and the way time is spent in this debate. Please, although it is your party colleague, that Minister Ruzic cautions that this is not how he treats the MPs. I'm asking the National Assembly to make a statement about this injury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22261	Thank you, colleague Tepic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22262	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, Article 103, paragraphs 7 and 8. This is the second time a colleague has ever used an injury to the Rules of Procedure as a classic replica. In such situations, you are scheduled to refuse two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group, which is thus misused by the Rules of Procedure. But I still have the understanding of your work, of your tolerance for opposition groups, but still, every once in a while, you need to point out that you are violating the rules of the Rules of Procedure, when they advertise the injury and refuse those two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group, given that these abuses are common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22263	I thank my colleague Rističević. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. You have no basis for replication. (Bosko Obradovic: He called the father of our fellow MP. No one has spoken to you. No one has offended your account in order to have a basis for you to receive a replica. Mr Ruzic, the speaker's representative, spoke about the issues raised during today's session. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22264	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported on the amendment, which reads - Article 8. Proposal for a law – deleted. It seems here we have again amendments that are one-brave, not to say again a copy-paisyst variant of the same, which are submitted to all members of the law. I simply wonder how it is imagined by applicants of such amendments to delete all the members of the proposal and what they think they have achieved by submitting such amendments. I also wonder how long the time foreseen for using the amendment's reasoning will be used to collect cheap political points. I would be detained, if you don't mind the Honorable Chairman, on the explanation of the amendments given by MPs who are obviously easier to bring a stone into the assembly than to give a good amendment. The interpretation of the amendment consists mainly of an attack on the SNS, consisting of charges referred to at the expense of party personnel and allegedly purchased diplomas. I am very pleased that citizens can monitor this transmission and see what would happen if some of these MPs came to power, who in this tall home call their colleagues parasites, what would they do with the citizens then. In the end, we also heard in the explanation of the amendments, which I concentrated on, that the opposition voice was not heard enough. Gentlemen, the voice of the opposition cannot be heard in those two minutes, in the light of the amendments, but is heard in the elections. I suggest that this amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22265	The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8, the same text was submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22266	Dear Vice President, keeping in mind the misbehaviors of some MPs, in recent days in this high house, from a minor political group, saving time by giving up the arguments and the time I give up on their education so that they no longer cause scandals in this high house.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22267	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22268	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Programme Council should establish such a type of programme that if a civil servant does not come to the public service and that there are no more famous ones – you lack one piece of paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22269	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and Tatjana Macura. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment to be an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a national MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22270	Thank you. With this amendment, we corrected one slip in the bill, and I am pleased that the billing officer has adopted the amendment. Namely, for the sake of the citizens, let me just explain what's going on. When regulations are written, it is our duty to follow unique methodological instructions for making regulations. They, among other things, require that in the text of the law, numbers to 10 are written in words, and over these figures. I suppose it came at a speed that the bill to the National Assembly reached 14 words instead of numbers and, in that sense, it was my intervention. But this isn't the first time something like this has happened, this isn't the first time that I've had amendments that correct mistakes that are made at speed, because I refuse to believe that officials, because I don't believe that ministers write bill proposals, they don't know that, but I think they're pressed by short deadlines. I don't understand why everything has to go back-to-night, by an urgent procedure to surrender to the Assembly, that then we in the Assembly don't have enough time to deal with these laws in quality, but we are left with very short deadlines. The draft law arrived in the National Assembly on Sunday (September 24th) to hold a session Tuesday to discuss it. I would ask the legislators of the law, of all kinds and of all ministries, to send proposals early in the future, not to wait for the last moment for it to be an emergency procedure and to necessarily read these proposals several times. We cannot criticise our children that they are illiterate and do not care for spelling unless we in the highest legislative body of the Republic of Serbia do not take care of it. We have to teach our children the example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22271	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22272	Thank you, Your Honor. What does this law show us? This law shows us the complete alienation of SNS from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This law shows us complete alienation and that the management of SNS, of its armored cars, of its cabinets and leather chairs, does not see the essential problems of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed law on the National Academy of Public Administration of SNS shows that it does not see that 50,000 children are hungry every day in Serbia. With what you want and another 14 members of the Programme Council, whose reduction we are proposing, you show complete estrangement from the fact that Serbian citizens do not have enough money in their wallet, nor enough fuel in the tank, nor enough food in the refrigerator. You're proposing to the National Public Administration Academy, which will number 14 members of the Programme Council, plus the president, plus the director, plus the deputy, plus the assistant. So I suggest you adopt this amendment. The Democratic Party is not an apriori after all, we will always support what is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia. So we have proposed reducing the members of the Programme Council, and I do not understand why you did not accept this amendment, except because it is very little that you have hired 50,000 of your points in public administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22273	By amendment, MP Vladimir Orlic. Did you want to follow the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22274	It doesn't matter what the base is, it won't be for more than ten seconds. I call for him not to be accepted because it's so pointless that he doesn't deserve any deeper comment. If I understood the promoter correctly, if we bring this down to nine members by 14, 50,000 children will be fed up, right? Well, as true and serious as it is, so is everything else we've heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22275	Do you want the amendment? The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22276	Of course, Mr. Chairman, I didn't expect anyone on the opposite side of the hall to understand us on this side, they don't have those capacities, but it's not on me. No, Mr. Chairman, I answer the questions, but you, not the previous speaker, because you are not allowed to speak directly, you were obliged to warn the previous speaker, 50,000 children who do not have lunch every day because their parents do not work, if we cut to nine from 14, have that snack, but will become so that the SNS should return ten billion euros to the Serbian citizens, but will already have a snack that SNS did not shut down FAP after 63 years of existence.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22277	Let's go back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22278	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22279	You wanted to get the amendment, I'm sorry? Speaking of SNS, you wanted a replica? [[Vladimir Orlic: Based on replica.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22280	All right, if a man's wrong, he needs to meet him. So, like we said, the SNS has been very close here, hasn't it? I take it he applies to jobs, among other things? So, we've already read here, and that's official data, the data that's measured by official statistics, the same statistics that these people, because it doesn't support them, terribly bothers them, but which just by the European institutions has been found correct, like the one that acts in accordance with the standards that apply right here in this Europe. Now, this statistic, which is indisputable to people who belong to European institutions, she said, measured and showed that more than half a million people for the vaccine of these people who are now terribly concerned about the closures and losing jobs, among other things, more than half a million people without a job. We've already invited them to take a look and put a finger on their foreheads, if they're able. If they're talking about employee care, their children, just two things to remember. They don't need to protect people from SNS that brought over 130,000 new jobs to these people. Let these people, if they want to protect them, protect them from themselves. They shouldn't be protecting themselves today, they should be doing this protection during the time they burned and burned this country themselves, and among other things, those 500,000 jobs were lost. So they take care of who they protect and take care of what time they protect. Anything else, if the way to be yourself is important and important, it's not controversial, let's challenge the replica another time, we'll be able to use it for two minutes as we can. If it does not recognize a personal problem or impulses that can come down to political masochism, I will not enter into motives, but let them know that it will not go better and that will not make their shame less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22281	According to the amendment, the People's MP Krsto Janjušević has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22282	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, who I call, of course, for not to be accepted, can be described as the person who can shout most loudly without knowing what he is yelling about. So maybe it wouldn't be bad if he stuck to the amendment, not whether the FAP was shut down or not. I can tell him from the scene that FAP currently produces 40 vehicles for Serbia's Army and that 250 people are currently working in FAP, that FAP is in the UPPR process and that FAP will soon be part of the dedicated industry. I'm sorry, this was for the sake of the truth, Your Honor. He could explain the role of coach a little bit better, he didn't explain it well through his amendments. So he succeeded in his municipality from his football club to create a public institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22283	Let's go back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22284	Excuse me, this is about the amendment. That public institution can't be run by a coach, it's run by a director. Imagine meeting two football clubs where on the one hand he runs a tactics coach and on the other the director. Imagine what that football team he ran looks like, when probably the director of the Directorate is centering on the director of the municipal local, and then he's setting up a pen for the director of the social work center. So I don't want to insult anyone. I just want to, with respect to all the people he's brought into this situation in such a way, that through a football club he pays off his profits to these companies...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22285	Comrade Janjusevic, I ask you to return to...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22286	... a little better in the future to take care of how he sets up coaches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22287	Let's get back to Article 8, colleague Janjusevic. (Radoslav Milojic: Rules of Procedure. I've seen my colleague Milojičić. My colleague Janjusevic, please, when you answer, I have suggested that we return to the agenda point two or three times, and specifically to Article 8 who has submitted a colleague, Milojic. The People's Messenger Milojičić, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22288	Mr. Milicevic, I'm advocating Article 108 that it's okay at the session of the old chairman. As you turn off every DS MP on any mention of SNS or anything negative, and everything is negative what they have done in the last six years of their power, please have the same arches for the SNS. I really don't care what Martinović and Orlic are threatening to do to you, which determines when you will take away the word from which MP, but I hope that you will show dignity and that you will not allow them to lead the session, because at this point you are doing it. I don't want to answer this nonsense. All the local self-government people are here, and the minister and his assistants or state secretaries, so what you said is absolutely impossible, not legally, in any other way. So I really don't want to comment on this level of stupidity.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22289	Just please talk to me. Thank you, fellow Milojits. I didn't hear anyone make any threats, not to me personally. As for a colleague who spoke for a while, I suggested two or three times. I have also done so when certain opposition MPs speak, because I think it is really important that we return to the agenda point, in particular to Article 8 of the amendment that you submitted together with your fellow Members, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? (Yes) Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22290	Dear Chairman, I ask you no longer to harm Article 21, or to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, unless there is another extended edition, as I said the other day, in which we are not addressed. I really don't want to hear about the yellow company or the three-colour company or any company, or anyone who needs to hear about it. We're here to discuss a set of laws that are on the agenda today and I want to hear about the draft law on the National Academy of Public Administration. So we are discussing these amendments, and I would like to ask the most beautiful thing to do is not to discuss any more business and I would ask you to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure in time, and not when all MPs say what they want, and it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you react. It all looks very nice as if you've reacted, and in fact you haven't, the post-festum can't react, it must at that point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22291	Thank you, colleague Pavlovic. In exactly the same way you spoke to her a few days ago. I'll give you a similar explanation. First of all, I'll say, I didn't hurt Article 21 and there are no double arches and double standards. You cannot allow one party to ask a question, and you do not allow the other party to answer questions, or otherwise. So my intention is in no way to prevent an open debate and a democratic confrontation of opinions in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The fact that the MPs, here I can agree with you, at certain moments through and through the discussion of the details, depart from what is the agenda, from what is the content of the amendment, I, as chairman, cannot predict what the MPs will talk about. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Sonja Pavlovic: Yes, I do. ) I thank you, colleague Pavlovic. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Zdravko Stankovic and Goran Bogdanovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Maja Vidinović, Tomislav Žigmanov, Goran Jesic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vuckovic together submitted to the 8th amendment. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22292	We just had a discussion on the amendment to Article 8 and a simple proposal, it's not complicated. Instead of a programme council that should consist of 14 members plus a president, so 15 members, we here have a simple proposal to make up the president and eight members, to cut by six members the Programme Council, for several reasons. One reason is certainly more efficient work, because we think that a smaller body can work more efficiently, with good selection and with the right conditions, and professional and organisational opportunities, with all the members of the council. Another important reason is certainly better representation of the most interesting institutions to be represented in the political council. I'll read you the amendment. I don't really see anything logical about not accepting a amendment like this. Cost reduction, more efficient work and better representation of institutions that will be interested in the work of this programme council. Therefore, the amendment reads: "The programme council consists of presidents and eight members, appointed and resolved by the Director of the National Academy. The President and three members of the Programme Council shall be appointed from the ranks of civil servants who have at least nine years of working experience in the field relevant for the work of public administration, one member shall be appointed from the ranks of members of the Council for professional training of staff in local self-government units, from the order of members proposed by the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, two members shall be appointed from the ranks of experts relevant for the work of the public administration, and two members shall be appointed by representatives of the association and other business and non-profit organisations whose objectives or tasks are for which they are established in the area relevant for the work of the public administration." So, in addition to these objectives, reducing numbers, increasing the efficiency of the work of the Programme Council, reducing financial costs, the important goal is, above all, respect for the importance and importance of people in local self-government, because we have repeatedly insisted on the key topics to be done by the National Academy, which are specific problems and problems in practice that from the good practice of different local self-government should be addressed, therefore, better representation of people from local self-government. Here we have introduced a proposal that an important institution in Serbia that has really been doing important jobs for a long time, is the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, to be represented with its proposal, because surely years of experience, decades of experience, participation in projects, knowledge of problems, concrete problems, local self-government and people living in a local, with good practices that can be applied and with good projects is something that makes sense to me. So I invite both the minister and his associates to accept this amendment because we think it's logical for these reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22293	Thank you. The 8th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22294	I thank the chairman. This amendment, the Independent Members' Club, has been accepted and becomes, of course, an integral part of the law, but I need to say what it is, because it is, in fact, another proof of my own, on several occasions earlier, of requests to take into account that the highest state officials, which I mean the members of the government, especially the Prime Minister who signed the bill, should pass the first kind of training and, in particular, pass the state expert exam. There are professionals among you who have been doing this for years. They must know what I'm talking about. Namely, in writing this member of the law which includes the content, i.e. the composition of the programme council of the National Public Administration Academy, you have left out to indicate a member representing civil servants from the AP. This is not only what we view as a conflicting law on employees of AP units of local self-government, but also the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which, as far as I know, still recognises the AP of Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija. Therefore, the legislator has done here, not only a serious failure to recognize the rules, but, apparently, not a consultation of experts who would draw attention to him in time. It's great that you accepted this amendment. Otherwise, this member of the law, well, the law itself would be contrary to the Constitution, but once again, I am asking you nicely, without any authoritative tone, as much as it can be done, that you are the first person to show that you have a serious intention to be our public administration, especially people who are nursing and the elders of the authorities, and first to pass a state expert exam, if you are not, then to be the first member of this or any of the Academy to be trained by public officials at the highest level, because the government has passed a bill that is contrary to the Constitution and the laws that she herself has also proposed and this Assembly adopted, and the legislator in the form of the signator Ana Brnabić, as the Prime Minister, even she did not know about it. Otherwise, she had just run a ministry that you would have inherited, so somehow it's not a good picture that the elders of this particular ministry don't understand their business. Please, once again, make a personal example of changing this practice and show that the ministers, members of the government and the Prime Minister know the Constitution and knows the division of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22295	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dejan Šulkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22296	Thank you. Article 8. The draft law prescribes the competence, composition and manner of setting up the Programme Council and in paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure that the Programme Council, i.e. the President and the Members, appoints and resolves the Director of the National Academy and that the Director of the National Academy has full discretion, or the right, to appoint the President and seven members of the Programme Council from the order of civil servants who meet certain conditions prescribed by law. I have proposed by amendment that a permanent list of civil servants who meet the conditions laid down by this law be formed by means of an annual public invitation for the establishment of the Programme Council. That the list is also published on the National Academy site, as well as an act on the appointment of civil servants. On the grounds that the provision of a permanent list of civil servants who meet the conditions for membership in the Programme Council on the basis of a public call to be published each year would thus allow all interested civil servants who meet the required conditions to be appointed from the Permanent List to the Programme Council. Also, competition would be encouraged, i.e. the number of interested, and the public principle would be respected in the selection of civil servants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22297	Thank you, Comrade Schulkic. On the 9th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Marina Ristic and Sreto Perić, together with Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janušević, Dr. Dragan Vesovic, Mr. Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22298	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, as members of the SRS and the MPs, we personally made sure that the public administration had problems. When a public administration reform was proposed, we thought it would be a good intervention and we were ready to engage to the maximum to help look at it from different angles. But looking at this law through which you're trying to do it we see that it's actually nothing. It precedes something like this, perhaps by law there is a limit to the number of employees. I believe that you remember 2013 which was brought in December and he served only as, as Minister Nedimovic would say – a tool for the regime to control employment. This Academy has, too, for the purpose, but I disagree with most colleagues and most of the objections were from maybe opposition parties, so it got the impression that members of parties, political parties should not even be employed. People should be told that it is not and must not be, as one lady, a member of the SNS, said – I got a job thanks to the SNS-It is already a problem. So the quality of a job should be something that he, in the best way, recommends. This is where the expert bodies are scheduled. We have the Academy's management, so later we introduce professional bodies that should do something, and from this we don't see their essence, and we don't see any of their significance that they can do it. Well, it has been said that there will be 14 members of the Programme Council, we have already talked a lot about it, but the permanent programming committees, so that the education of the Commission will be in the jurisdiction of the Director of the National Academy, and the compensation for their participation in the decision-making work will be made by the Government on a proposal from the National Academy, which the National Academy, as the collective body of the National Academy or the director of the National Academy, will propose. What's the problem? The problem is that, especially in local self-government units, and by reputation or perhaps with the enormous protection of the central level of government, negative selection is conducted, and they are modelled by the central new authorities to see and apply it. You see, in one preschool institution, ministers I will not deliberately reveal the place to you, try to find out a little bit, it's a sin, a cancellation gets the person who has the best grades, the best qualifications, after 12 years of work, to receive someone who's just finished the necessary school or college. That's the problem. That's what party belongings make a big problem. Instead of dealing with local self-government with the help of competent ministries, creating good working conditions, for a better life in the local self-government, they are overrun who will hire more members of their parties in public services. In a few years, neither the one who's already been fired since he was 12 years old, nor the one who's just graduated, started working, won't have a job, the birth rate is down. In a number of local self-government there are extra employees and this may be much easier to solve than in those local self-governments, where there is both surplus and deficit. What's the shortfall? They're short-sighted men who miss local self-government so they can do their job in a good way. Both we and the SRS are absolutely certain, which is why we are proposing such amendments, we are absolutely sure that the National Academy of Education in the Public Administration or, monitoring education in the public administration, none of these problems can be solved, so it would be good if the amendment of the SRS, to Article 9, was accepted and that this member was deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22299	Thanks, buddy. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22300	The Honorable chairman, respected citizens of Serbia, is more than clear why the Dvori are against the adoption of this law and why we believe in this article that it should be deleted and that this law should not be passed. The reason is simple – this is a party law for the need to continue hosting party personnel in the state administration. You have already heard from counterpart Dragan Vesovic, an example from the King, that all the SPS committees in the previous term of the City of Kralje Assembly hired or themselves personally, which is a special scandal, because the committees, or the closest members of their family, are in public, republican and local enterprises. Thus, the head of the SPS committee group hired himself and later his husband in Elektroprivreda Serbia, and the gentleman who heads the SPS in the Kingdom and whom they call Mali Ruzic, according to Minister Branko Ružić, in this term, so, in recent months, he has already hired his own sister and his daughter, one in the republican and the other in a local public enterprise. Indeed, Mr. Ruzic, I congratulate you personally and little Rose from the Kings. These are exceptional results in the department of our state administration. I'm sure this new law will go that way too, that little Ruzici, and everywhere in the SPS across Serbia, continues to be employed by the state administration. Of course, it is not an exception to SNS representatives. And they, according to temporary and occasional contracts, especially in Telecom, at Elektroprivred Serbia and other public enterprises and institutions, are also hiring their party personnel and that is why we oppose such a law. He just can't trust you. You've turned into interested party companies that care about hiring their staff and don't care at all about the state administration and its development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22301	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22302	Mr. Chairman, the degree of tolerance expressed by your predecessor, Mr. Milicevic, otherwise a member of our parliamentary group, continues. I think it's high time you sanctioned, according to the Rules of Procedure, a harsh deviation from public order. It is already becoming, not degutantly, too rough, too rough for Serbian citizens and insulting Serbian citizens when not talking about the law. The MP has his primary duty, his duty to sit here and take part in the debate, to discuss what is the agenda. Popularism and political marketing should spread elsewhere. We're only discussing the law today. If the amendment to Article 9 relating to the permanent programming committees, the amendment "is deleted", then the explanation is why it is deleted, not because of partocracies. One who is hypocritical, who has his own experience of employment, how, through whom, and who is the party that has made it possible for him, but you must not allow it. You have to react to that. If one who has been cruelly violating this Rules of Procedure calls for his democratic rights and democratic principles to be denied, then it is an even greater degree of hypocrisis and an even greater degree of hypocrisy. I ask that in the future, when there is a breach of article 106. The Rules of Procedure, which I advertise, you will react by taking away the word of the People's MP, whoever it may be, and Bosko Obradović, to take away the word because it is your right to do so in the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to use this right and your obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22303	Thank you. I respect your suggestion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In any case, as well as counterpart Milicevic, I will try to make the debate democratic, but to be in line with the topic, although it was not the case in previous several speeches. By amendment, MP Sonja Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22304	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I am reporting under the amendment with the text "expect". It's the amendment that we called here, in the previous session, there were many amendments like this, a harmful amendment, which doesn't contribute much to anything, any improvement of the law. We have been listening for days, and in the days when the debate was in principle and today in particular, in general, these applicants of such amendments, our colleagues, speak more political speeches than ever about amendments and proposed laws. They even mentioned our party, my party, the SNS on several occasions in political speeches that we are not in our party's pre-election campaign, that nothing has been met, and very much about public administrations, there are more than 37,000 fewer employees in the public administration itself. It's been said more than once, but I'm right and I want to point out again. I've come up with an interesting poster just from an amendment applicant where I have to show if it has anything to do with what it says. Amendment applicants in the previous campaign had a poster "Who can and can". We've been listening for days about these applicants of amendments respecting the Constitution, protecting family and traditional values, caring and thinking about children, caring about their and even having children's rights, their education, and insulting their mothers, sisters, aunts, colleagues, neighbors. They insult and physically attack. Who dares and can bring a stone into the congregation building. He also hurt me by saying it was a stone from Kosovo and Metohija. I was born in the heart of Metohija, but we figured it out a long time ago, and we know that a colleague is no longer a gentleman.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22305	Thank you, colleague, but not by the line. You speak according to the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22306	This is about the amendment. According to all that I have said, colleagues are allowed and able to submit amendments with the text "expunge" and, therefore, on the day of the vote in the voting day, I will not vote for such amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22307	Thank you. By amendment, MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22308	Thank you, Chairman. Of course, at the beginning, I suggest that the amendment be rejected. In fact, the whole law would have been derailed. The law provides for clear registration and in itself is the modernisation and optimisation of public administration. In the entire debate so far, we have heard from the promoters, I would say, one exact thesis, which is that the ruling coalition keeps records of public administration employees. That is true, but the record reads as follows: 80,000 less employees in both public administration and public enterprises, in public institutions, and reduced unemployment in Serbia as a whole. It's a record. The question of ethics has been asked. It is a question of ethics from which such proposals come, because by eradicating this article and revoking this and this law, there would be no record kept by the promoter. In fact, imagine how unethical, immoral it is, if you're looking for and talking about public sector employment? Here, let me tell you what their records say, not getting into what was 70 years ago and who worked for what services and who worked for what administrations. The promoter works in the state administration, his father, the building inspector, in the public administration, his brother in the city administration, in the urban sector. A little bit, then a sister-in-law came along, and she was in a public institution. Imagine now the degree of immorality and the degree of unethicalness in all these facts. But maybe that in itself wouldn't be a problem if all these people were working only in the service of this country. There are people in this movement who work for the services of some other states. So, for example, the director of the proponent's political council...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22309	Comrade Vujadinović, please, this is not a topic. The subject is an amendment, and you've come forward by amendment. I want to continue the debate under this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22310	The President-in-Office, the topic is the work of the state administration, i.e. in the public administration. It's not a problem when people work in the public administration of this country, it's those members of whatever parties in this country, and I don't think it should in itself be a limiting factor, but it is a problem when you work for the administration of another state. Now you have a promoter who criticises people who work in the public administration of this country, and on the other hand, their members work for other administrations. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22311	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. Bosko Obradovic, did you answer the word after the amendment? (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. ) Probably at the presentation of counterpart Vlahovic, but you did not mention yourself, there was no mention of the Serbian Movement of the Dvori, so you can only get the word after the amendment. (Bosko Obradovic: I am mentioned. No, you're not mentioned. That's exactly why I turned off my colleague. (Bosko Obradovic: Okay, I'm reporting by amendment. ) The word has a National MP Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22312	Thank you, Chairman. I agree with the password of our celebrated Duke Živojin Mišic that “he who dares, he can. ” Since we could not propose a law that would erase these six years of the devastating power of the Serbian Progressive Party, we can only propose to delete a member of the law that is bad. I can repeat once again why this law is bad and why we have proposed that all members of this law be deleted – so as not to have harmful consequences for the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia. We already have the very harmful consequences of the rule of the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Serbian Progressive Party in previous years. But if we form the National Academy of State Administration, these harmful consequences will deteriorate and will be worse for the citizens of Serbia, because only those employed by the state administration by the SPS and SNS will be able to improve professionally and continue to progress. That's what I was talking about. If the Minister appoints the Director of the National Academy, if the Director of the National Academy, as regards this Article 9, appoints members and programme councils and other permanent expert committees, if they accredit and professionally train employees in the state administration, then anyone in Serbia has doubts that they will be able to advance only those who are members of their parties and that all others will have to stand in progress. That's the dilemma I'm putting before you here, and that's why we're opposed to passing this law. Of course, there are extremely honest, honest, valuable, professional, and working people in the state administration. They are mostly not members of political parties, but they have a problem with their work because they are not members of political parties, especially those of the ruling parties. In recent elections, you were blackmailing all public administration employees to have to raise 20 votes for Alexander Vukic in order not to get fired. So people have a problem when they work at the state administration and they're not your sure voters. Imagine if this man who is not a member of the SPS or the SNS has to come to an accreditation with your director of the National Academy, at your program board, with your permanent expert commissions? How is he going to get through this professional training? How can he get credentials if he doesn't raise 20 safe votes for your parties in the next election? So this allows you to continue to blackmail the National Academy of State Administration, to continue to terror the employees of the state administration, to further blackmail them, to further condition them with progress or even service, if they have to give you a safe vote for your electoral candidates. That's the problem we're talking about here. We simply don't trust you. You've been in power too long. You promised, you didn't do it. You said you'd shut down the state agencies and start a new one. So you just can't be trusted anymore. When you say that this national academy serves to perfect the state administration in Serbia, no one trusts you, because everyone knows that your parties have turned into employment institutions and that today in Serbia you can't get a job until you go to join the SNS or the SPS. That's why I have, Mr. Minister, for the end of this presentation one concrete proposal, which is that the National Academy of State Administration bears the name of veterans of our state administration, Maja Gojkovic, who has proved so many times... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22313	I really don't want to let you, or will ever let you insult my fellow MP, the president of the National Assembly, from the pay phone. (Bosko Obradovic: What did I say was not true? It doesn't make sense. Let the debate run, let you talk about the amendment, and then you end up insulting, so, with the old practice. We try to balance it out somehow, but obviously you don't let people who chair me or my colleague Milicevic do it. Please don't insult each other. Thank you. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22314	Thank you. I'll just take a moment, really. And in principle, in the debate, we made it clear what the intensity of this law is, what is in the law. I just want to point out that this isn't about some agency. It's about the government's authority. It's about the director choosing in the competition. If that bothers someone, and if that's not exactly the way to do it, God forbid, some of the tendencies that certain MPs are talking about, I simply don't understand how to promote a law that is now serving to bring order into the system and to carry out this professional training. As far as the programme council is concerned, the fact is that it is a state administration body, of course it will be the director who will be the one who is the one who has the power to consult other resolutions by the structure of the members of the programme council, in practice, identify those who will deal with it, whose practical work is closely related to professional training. So there's no partocrat, there's no need for that. And to perfect our people working in the state administration, I think that something that is quite desirable is necessary, a fruitful and compatible reform of the public administration that we have committed to as the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22315	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22316	It is not only a question of the mention of the SNS, our members and representatives of any amendments and any possible opportunity. The problem is when it happens in a violent way like we heard it over and over again. Two things should be listed here. First, that apparently the one who once established models of classical bully behavior seems unable to function differently. I don't know how else to figure this out. So, to say the least, he found fit to respond by verbally attacking again a woman who was not there at all, who had not dealt with him all the day of God. Where did he get that weird urge? Where did he come from, I absolutely don't get it, except the way I just showed it. A man has a constant need to deal with women, to show them how strong and important he is, and when he physically assaulted at RIK. That's right, you're surprised, and I'm surprised, we're all surprised about this behavior. And then when he was also verbally living on women here, including the president of the National Assembly, he did it today, and then when he organized 200 hooligans, so their glorious gathering ended how? Knocking a woman, fist-to-face to concussion. Those kinds of behaviors will obviously never be able to overcome and overcome. The second thing, that this is how it attracts attention, is obviously the result of being dumped by those of whom he hoped for next elections in Belgrade. That's my conclusion, based on this behavior and this behavior, he seems to have been forgotten by everyone. Another lesson for all who are watching this could be to see on the case of this which has just been done by the end of a political starlet that has not been paid to come to Belgrade by sponsors. I'm done with that, Mr. Chairman. It must end up as a hostel at the Zlatiborac Motel.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22317	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Neđo Jovanovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22318	Thank you. I will no longer appear in this manner, to respond to the senseless nonsense and parrotic stories that have lasted since the beginning of today's debate. But I have to point to something that floats all the time, and that's trust. So, the SPS in no way expects her to be trusted by those who, by the tone they speak today, are only insulting and insulting the SPS and its members and supporters and citizens of Serbia. It is important for us to be trusted by those who vote for the SPS, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this ruling coalition. That's why we're where we are for 27 years, 27 years that certainly a group represented by Bosko Obradovic will never welcome, far from that. I hope they'll welcome the next election. But what seems necessary to me all the time to tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and where I again refer to the personal, ethical code, is – which is why the president so-called. Serbia's Dvora movement doesn't explain to citizens how he got a job in the Chačka library? Is it solely because of the expertise, knowledge, skills and all that it takes to credibly credulize him to work in the library or is it something else, if it's different to know what it's about? At that time, the personal code of ethics would be expressed, and that personal code of ethics could then be accepted as an authentic ethical code. All of this will then keep the citizens of Serbia in doubt, which is why someone who keeps talking about honesty works unfairly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22319	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22320	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I advertised this, but it doesn't matter. You gave your colleague Jovanovic your word. National Assembly dignity - Article 106, Article 107. First, the speaker has to stick to the agenda, which those who brought in the cabbage stone certainly didn't do all the time. I respect the chairmanship that you continue to tolerate it, but there has been a small violation of the dignity of the National Assembly because of the parole – whoever dares can. So someone here rebelled to prove that that password was his. Zivojin Misic, a famous duke, certainly had the right, the full right to his biography to say – who can, he can. That can be said by Duke Misic, but the muscle from the Chacan library has no right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22321	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? No, I don't. ) Right to replica, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22322	Thank you, Chairman. I truly understand that it is unpleasant for the representatives of the ruling regime, when someone in the opposition faces them with facts. I have not heard the answer from either the minister or the head of the SPS parliamentary group - is it true that all the SPS committees in the City of Kralje Assembly hired either themselves or members of the closest family, that little Ružić hired both his sister and his daughter, that the head of the SPS's parliamentary group hired himself and his husband? So we haven't heard any of that as an answer, but we're listening to that demagogue that's been characteristic of the SPS for all these 25 years in power. I know a lot of people who are members of the SPS, I know they didn't vote for Alexander Vukic for president of Serbia, and I know they don't agree with what's going on at the SPS summit, which is always ready to sell SPS interests for a few chairs. I think there's a good example for Mr. Branko Ruzic. He was the largest opposition in the ranks of government, photographed himself with those who shouted "Wolf Wolf", and then bought him with one ministerial post and since then he has been a loyal member of this government cabinet and one of the greatest ones to celebrate Alexander Vukic as the greatest son of all our peoples and peoples. Well, what would Mr. Roses do with your opposition to Alexander Wolf? It's kind of faded in the last few months. What would gentlemen advance with your conflict with Mr. Ruzic? Somehow it has now become acceptable to you since he became Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on your proposal. So it's hypocrisy, Mr. Jovanovic. It is the hypocrisy of you who, when you say – the former regime you do not think about the SPS, and you know well that it is the most responsible for things that have been going badly in Serbia for the past 25 years exactly the former regime in which the SPS was and that is what you are globularly silent about.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22323	Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 9th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22324	Dear Vice President, given that in recent days certain MPs of a minority political group in this high home of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic pulled out a microphone, giving up the explanation of the amendments and giving them time for their education so that scandals in this high house would no longer occur.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22325	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22326	Thank you. Article 106(1) – The speaker can only talk about the subject of the agenda. A colleague Atlagic responded to the amendment and began to talk about something that had nothing to do with life. I see you're trying, the chairman, I appreciate the effort, but I would like to appeal that if you want with the authority to ask the opposition MPs to stick to the topic, you must first implement it among the ruling majority MPs. When you do so with them, there will be an echo among the opposition MPs. I ask you next time to stop them, as you interrupted some MPs of the opposition. You must interrupt more than the opposition's MPs. It's the only way you can expect the opposition MPs to follow the same rule with authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22327	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22328	It doesn't have to if you start doing that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22329	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22330	First of all, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's about programming committees. I hope that we will avoid behaviour in future public administrations such as one public administration in Palank, a beer type, which has put all these public administrations at the Fubodska Club Jasenica, educated public institutions by hiring 30 people in a room with two chairs. I believe that programming committees will avoid it, as will avoid the behavior of various committees of type – hydrobuilding, it is a famous communist family with their friends, with my acquaintance Velimir Ilic, that we will avoid having offspring of a family who has been educated somewhere in Kumrovec as the last generation to give us a lecture here on partocrats. I hope these programming committees avoid that kind of behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22331	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanović submitted to Article 9. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22332	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 9(2) raises a fundamental question – who can be part of the permanent programming committee and under what conditions? Is that the proposal you're proposing? The Government suggests that these are people, I'll read, in Section 3. – “with significant and recognised experience mainly from the public administration”? Can you just answer me – what does "significant experience" mean and from which "recognized experience" mean? So we suggest that these words be replaced by words – "if they have at least nine years of work experience in the area relevant for the work of the public administration", because we can get some Gasic at the head of this, God forbid. What is devastating for all Serbian citizens, who do not have a child to provide money for school, who do not have a child to provide books for school, is the fact that 186 million dinars are allocated for reconstruction of the office, for the equipment of public administration offices, 100 million dinars for the equipment of former President Tomislav Nikolic's office and 50 million dinars, as we have heard that the security expert Bratislava Gasic spent to equip his offices in the BIA. What can you do with 250 million in public administration? You can...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22333	My friend Milojic, I'm sorry. What you're saying has nothing to do with this other part of the amendment and the program advice and... . (Radoslav Milojic: May I continue? Just don't insult people. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22334	Can you answer me who I insulted?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22335	Go ahead. You're running out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22336	I also have the time of the parliamentary group, so when you don't have any arguments, when you don't know how to face facts, when someone who's untouchable in SNS is mentioned, you take away the word from DS MPs. I spoke clearly about the amendment, and I set an example that the ruling set, with the SNS at the head, spends 186,000,000 dinars on the equipment of the premises and I don't see what's controversial about it, except that you, again, the SNS gentlemen, the two without the helm, Orlic and Martinovic are getting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22337	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22338	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I'm suggesting a violation of article 27. I ask you, Mr. Marinkovic, to lead this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and not to let anyone on the other hand get a word in the amendment about what comes to his mind. We're doing it today, and here I am, as president of the parliamentary group, here at 2.30 today, the first time he answered his word, he listened to everything and everything, which has nothing to do with the agenda. In their time, when they ruled, not that it couldn't, but we received warnings after three seconds after we turned on this red color that we turned on the microphone. Of course, I'm not asking you to do this, but come on, please, let's stop talking about something that has nothing to do with the agenda. Otherwise, I will read to you all day and you will not be able to prevent me from the verdict reached on Dragan Sutanovac, by the First Basic Court in Belgrade, and I will ask that the relevant state authorities, in the light of this verdict, indicate how it is possible for someone who is the Minister of Defence to acquire this kind of property, which is stated in the light of the ruling of the First Basic Court in Belgrade? The same ones who lecture us about morality, about honesty, about not having to perform two functions at the same time, etc. So either you will introduce this session to the agenda, because the topic of this session is not SNS, or we will read the verdict from the beginning to the end, and they have hidden it, they did not want to publish it, they published only the dissent, they hid the argument from the citizens of Serbia, so that they do not see how much assets Dragan Sutanovac, who is allegedly so concerned with hungry children, for children who do not have the clubs, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22339	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22340	Mr. Milicevic, the citizens of Serbia clearly see what is going on here and I hope you will be objective, that you will allow me to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. By the way, I'm advocating Article 108 to have an order at the session of the old President of the National Assembly or his deputy, i.e. You and that you would allow me to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, as you have allowed my predecessor, i.e. To the head of the SNS parliamentary group, who spoke of everything, he gave the greatest lies, so I ask you to be parliamentary and allow me. I don't want to threaten you, as Mr. Martinovic threatened you, that you won't be able to silence him. I don't know who Mr. Martinovic is, so to speak to the chairman, there is a clear legal indication here on what and on what grounds it is done, which is according to the Rules of Procedure, so please respond to what the predecessor said. Then I want to ask to see who bought the apartment, how did Mr. Vulin buy the apartment? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22341	A fellow Milojitsu... (Radoslav Milojic: Why did you turn off my microphone? Because... First, don't throw it away. (Radoslav Milojic): How did the previous speaker speak? ) The previous speaker also spoke to the Rules of Procedure and pointed to me in violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'll just remind you that when it comes to the amendment that you absolutely didn't talk about the amendment. So I'm going to have to take it away from your MP's time if you abuse it. So we're going to continue the session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and I'm asking you all to talk about this subject. Please don't insult each other and keep working normally and not throw away. Well, for starters, if that's possible. Here's a chance for Branko Stamenkovic to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22342	Thank you. Infringement of Rules of Procedure, Articles 103, 7 and 8 of the abuse of communication by the Rules of Procedure. Ambassador Martinovic reported to the Rules of Procedure and, for up to one minute and 21 seconds, he really talked about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. But then he went into something that had nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and since you didn't stop him, and you were supposed to stop him, I really don't know why you didn't stop him, because afterwards you stopped an opposition MP who tried to do the same? We're going back to what I said a moment ago when I was reporting for the injury of the Rules of Procedure. If you expect the opposition, this is not just about you, but about all the chairmans, who, as you occasionally change, if you expect the opposition MPs not to abuse the rules of procedure, you must first and foremost stop it from being with the ruling majority. Please remove the SNS parliamentary group from the SNS two minutes in accordance with Article 103 because of the abuse of the application of the Rules of Procedure, made by MP Martinovic. I repeat, for one minute and 21 seconds, he was talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, and after that, he abused that injury. You hurt the Rules of Procedure for not stopping him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22343	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. I will just remind you, of course, that I am obliged to give you an explanation that you did not react when, as part of the discussion on the amendment, former President Tomislav Nikolic, Bratislav Gasic, some money, was not entirely related to the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22344	But you have to act.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22345	I let it go and you didn't... Please don't. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Martinovic, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22346	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as my dear colleague Vladimir Orlic said well, gentlemen who earn us all day long and teach morals, about honesty, about how they care for children who are poor, they should have done so when they exercised power in Serbia. And what they did when they exercised power in Serbia, according to the Belgrade Court's ruling. With a view to the report on assets and revenues, as of 8 August 2012, which was filed under number 4600765/10, the court found that Dragan Sutanovac had made regular reporting of assets at the time of termination of public office, and that it resulted in Dragan Sutanovac, now watch this, collect the figures and check that the assets listed in the statement of the Court of First Instance can be acquired from these figures. So, yes, as a folk MP, Dragan Sutanovac has earned an income of 105 thousand dinars, which has been in office since July 28th 2012. Take care of this, that as Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, he made an income of 103,000 dinars, which he performed from July 7th 2008, until July 27th 2012. As a member of the Civil Aviation Directorate's Board of Directors of the Republic of Serbia, he made a revenue of 671,835 dinars. So much for not being able to perform two functions. So the man was also a defense minister and a member of the UO Civil Aviation Directorate. Today we have people giving lectures all day about how many members of the program council should count. Thus, it generated revenue of 671,835 dinars from July 7th 2008, until July 27th 2012. They say give us judgments, the courts should do their job. When the court does its job, then a man must not read what the verdict says. The verdicts are passed on behalf of the people. Every verdict that any court in the Republic of Serbia makes, look what it says on behalf of the people. Which the people must not know what is owned by Dragan Sutanovac.? What's so controversial about that? Is judgment taken on behalf of the people? It's coming. You guys are gonna see this now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22347	Just please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22348	Now you will hear from the people and see how possible it is that when you're a minister and a National MP, and you have a salary there somewhere hundreds of thousands of dinars, you get an asset that, now I'm going to tell you how much, I'm going to read only the part relating to Dragan Sutanovec, his wife has nothing to do with this, and his father-in-law has nothing to do with it, even though he said something, left it, he gave it, but I won't mention it. So, that Dragan Sutanovac owned 177,168 dinars on 8 July 2012. On the account of the Commercial Bank, on 8 July 2012, 5,654 euros. On the account of the Commercial Bank, on July 8, 2012, 6:122 U.S. dollars. In the account, beware, there is a man in the same bank a lot of bills as you can notice, on the account of the Commercial Bank on July 8, 2012, 56,000 euros. That the wife owns an account at Hypo Alpe Adria Banka 90,000 euros, that Dragan Sutanovac has an armed savings stake at the Bank of Inteza of 260,856 euros and that Marija Sutanovac owns 175,000 euros in cash, in an account with the Bank of Inteza. Now, you who take care of the buns, for children who can't buy their lunches, let's explain to me how it's possible that the same man at court's verdict says -- it's still found that the same one owns art paintings, some of them are probably from here from the National Assembly of October 5th, then he owns jewelry, watches, weapons, etc. Now, we get to the famous one, remember, they talk – no matter what these advances lie about, they mess around the Vrakar apartment, around the building, it's nothing true. Now, let's see what the court says on the subject. Here, there's plenty to read, thank God we have time, we're in no hurry, the people need to know how to build in Serbia. According to the court, Sutanovac Dragan and Sutanovac's wife were empowered by Petrovic Dragan to take all the shops and conduct all the procedures for building a new building upstairs on their behalf and account. Lots 1846/2, floor. Vračar Municipality, i.e. to apply for the authorisation or amendment of the building authorisation, to take the decision and to waive the right to appeal, to apply for a certificate of application for the start of works and to take over the same, to order and build a major project, to create an object according to that documentation and, within that framework, to conclude contracts and annexes of contracts with contractors and subcontractors. Follow the enforcement and obligations of them and make payments, apply for the technical reception of the newly built facility, request for the issue of the use of the permit, take over the solution and waive the rights of appeal to the same, etc., etc., all of this before the Department for Urbanism and Construction Affairs, the Office for the Catastre of immovableity, the Tax Administration, the Directorate for Building Land, Public Commercial Enterprises and other Authorities, and all in order to build a new facility. That's what we lied, we fooled the public, we said it wasn't true, poor Dragan Sutanovac, he attacks and hates SNS. On the floor. Lots of 1846/2 floor. Vrakar Municipality, Skerlic Street No. 20 Belgrade, it was also found that the appointed authorised to assume obligations on behalf of Dragan Sutanovac and determine the conditions, including the setting of the ideal part for the purchase and the amount of the purchase price, and, in accordance with the positive regulations, the court's clearance of the contract and the annex of the contract in the sale, in the capacity of the buyer. So, in the capacity of the buyer and all for buying the ideal apartment 3, right from the entrance, the special part of the building, number 1-2, according to the structure of the two-room, area 63m2, on the ground floor of the family and residential building, so, family and residential buildings, in Street Skerlic's number 20. Which facility is upstairs. Lots of 1846/2 floor. Municipality of Vračar, all listed in the list of immovableities 3507 floor. The Vashhar municipality. That contract was signed by the owner, Sutanovac Dragana. There's one positive thing, Mr. Marinkovic. The court says, even if it was on the day of the verdict, I don't know if anything has changed in the meantime, it says – by taking into account the report in the criminal record, for the defendant Dragan Sutanovac, the court found that it was not convicted. It's the only good and positive thing from this whole verdict. What's not clear to the end, it's that, now I'll find, just slowly. Did you add these squares together, Marianne? Did you add these numbers? (Marian Risticevic: I am figures, but the square is still missing.) We're missing squares, now we're gonna find them. It's a big verdict, it's almost 30 pages away.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22349	Go back to the amendment, please. (Radoslav Milojic: Marinkovic, do you have a gram of morality? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22350	Here, I'm coming back, I found it. (Radoslav Milojic: 9 minutes does not talk about the amendment. Nine minutes, the man didn't say anything about the amendment. You're not ashamed of yourself. Marianne, I found squares. On page 22 of the verdict, here are the squares. With a view to the report on assets and revenues from 31 January 2012, which was filed under number 46-00765/1, the court found that Dragan Sutanovac carried out... (Radoslav Milojic: 9 minutes does not talk about the amendment. What does this look like? I just found squares, Marianne records. Then it was found to own on behalf of the purchase...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22351	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22352	... A two-bedroom apartment on the surface, Marijane writes, 48 squares on the Street of Despota Stefan's Boulevard in Belgrade. (Radoslav Milojic): You're not ashamed. ) Da Dragan Sutanovac owns a house in Belgrade, of 157.5 m2, and reported the apartment otherwise.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22353	Mr. Milojitsu, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22354	Watch out for that grampity, watch out for that blasphemy, aside from all this property... So besides all this property, I explain to the people whose name this verdict was made. Why do we have the problems we have today?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22355	Please finish it by amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22356	Now on all this, to all these houses, Mariana, apartments of family, residential, etc., Mr Dragan Sutanovac asked the state apartment for official needs and got it at the address of Jevrem Grujic no. 14, surface, watch out, 180 m2, as well as official vehicle. (Radoslav Milojic): What does this look like, Mr Marinkovic? Do you know, do you know, Do you, Srbo, since I've put you in charge of the parliamentary group, how many buns can be bought for this sized apartments, watches, art paintings, fields, houses, etc? A lot.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22357	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22358	You have injured Rules of Procedure Rules 106, 107, members who say the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted and that he cannot use offensive terms, as well as facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons. Ten or 11 minutes exclusively about this, about the private life of others and not a word about the subject, about the amendment. You have tolerated him, and it is clear to you, and to all of us in the congregation, that you have violated the Rules of Procedure. I think you could take that step in the history of parliamentaryism and admit that you violated this Rules of Procedure, you know yourself. Thank you, fellow MP, for reading the liberating verdict for Dragan Sutanovac. Five years of torture, to him personally, to his family, which is mentioned today through reading this judgment, lies, slander and all that the whole family could survive, is something that is of course not ethical, nor should it be the manner of this congregation of each of us individually, on this side, or on your part. That's something we've been listening to, here's five or six years since 2012. Ten times today we heard the mention of Dragan Gilas, the tycoon, who was the target of all of you, as well as the tabloids and the media at the time he was president of the Democratic Party. The moment he is no longer president of the Democratic Party and will no longer run, he is no longer a target and has become a very respected member of this society. Now you're doing the same thing to Dragan Sutanovac, obviously. I call you to confess and restore integrity and integrity to this House, by admitting that you have violated the Rules of Procedure, it is obvious to all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22359	Thank you, Mr. Kiric. Thank you for the suggestion and for pointing to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. This debate has literally been since this morning, and Mr. Milicevic and I have been trying in every way to bring her back to some normal course and to discuss the subject, so I'm going to have to do it anyway. (Radoslav Milojic: By amendment! ( b) Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself? (Goran Ciric: Yes. - Yes, you do. Let's move on, I won't allow any more arguments and arguments like this. (Radoslav Milojic: By amendment! (Nenad Christmas: According to the Rules of Procedure! ) Members of Parliament Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Maja Vidinović, Tomislav Žigmanov, Goran Jesic, Maja Vidinović, Tomislav Žigmanov, Goran Jesic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukković submitted together to the 9th amendment. (Nenad Christmas: According to the Rules of Procedure!)- I'm sorry. My colleague Christmas, I give you a reminder. Why didn't you give me your word in the Rules of Procedure? ( ) Who responds to Article 9? We've been listening to nonsense here for ten minutes, and you don't give me a word in the Rules of Procedure! A colleague of Christmas, a second warning. Why didn't you give me your word? Shame on you! A fellow Christmas, third warning. You're ashamed of yourself! ) Who is responding by amendment? I'm on my way to the Rules of Procedure! Shame on you! Shame on you! I'm taking your word from you at the session. You're ashamed of yourself! I'm asking you to calm down, so you don't get nervous, so the punishment won't be any more drastic. You're very kind and very cultural. Thanks for that. Who's reporting under this amendment? So, according to Article 27, the chair of the chair of the session. Who picks up by amendment number nine? Alexandra Jerkov? Here you go, colleague Jerkov, let's move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22360	You once deleted a list of speakers for unknown reasons, probably not to give priority to colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22361	We're on the amendment, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22362	I know we're on the amendment, obviously the only one. Just to ask, is it a part of the session when the verdicts are being read, or can we read some judgments, because we have, let's say, I don't know if you know, colleague Gojkovic, our president, there's a judicial verdict against her, the Supreme Cassation Court of 2013, which realizes that without any apparent interest she has taken the obligation to remove all international traffic... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22363	My colleague Jerkov, I said I wouldn't allow any more debates like this. So if you'd like to continue, kindly please, if we can make a gentlemen's agreement, and if we can't, we'll move on to the amendments. I won't pay any attention. Here you go, re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22364	I'm sorry I'm laughing. I laughed sweetly. You probably won't do it anymore, until Martinovic answers, and then you'll do it again. So this is Article 9, where Article 3 provides for the composition of the Programme Council, and there is a vague provision that this Government is very prone to, and we saw this when we had the Law on Education, where it is said to be named by experts from the relevant thematic field and representatives, i.e. employees of the National Academy with significant private experience, mainly from the public administration order. So, not even with experience in the field of public administration, so, let's say, a housekeeper who's employed at the National Academy, according to what's standing here, can be elected to the National Academy Program Board tomorrow. I don't know why you don't want to accept that we're setting minimum conditions in terms of school equipment, work experience, anything that people have to meet in order to be appointed to the Programme Council. You're saying that this is a law that will allow those who are the best of progress to establish some kind of metrics in the state administration, so that according to the merits of progress, and at the same time you leave room for those who run the Academy to choose any way they can think of who's going to be on the Programme Council, to get compensation and to decide more about others. We propose, unsuccessfully, because it was an attempt when we had the Law on Higher Education, the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, to introduce a minimum of some criteria of school preparation, areas where we must have experience, years of experience, whatever, but it obviously does not suit you that any criteria exist because the intention is obvious that the only criterion is whether a party is in power and whether it has an appropriate party book. This article undermines what you say is the essence of this law. If you claim to be the opposite, accept the amendment to introduce at least some condition in terms of professional training for these people, because this is how it stands exclusively that party personnel will be elected, not those who are professional, who are the best and who know how to do their job.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22365	Thank you very much, colleague Jerkov. The word is Radoslav Milojic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22366	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The same amendment to Article 9, as Mr Martinovic spoke of the amendment, which Serbian citizens could see, which is not his shame and shame, but yours. If you take away my word, it means that even in the Assembly you must not hear facts and arguments, but tell a story and then put out the word to all MPs, so that the citizens of Serbia do not hear and see. The only thing true Mr. Martinovic has ever said in his life, regarding course... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22367	Thank you, fellow Milojich. (Radoslav Milojic): How can you take away my word? ) The amendment, which was added to the titles and the new member of the 9a, was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović, Zdravko Stankovic and Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? (No) (Marinika Tepic: Rules of Procedure! ) (Radoslav Milojičić: Rules of Procedure! ) On the 10th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Verica Radeta, Marina Ristić and Momcilo Mandić, together Marko Djurisić, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Zdravko Stanković and Goran Bogdanović and together Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić. Does anyone want a word? (Radoslav Milojic: Rules of Procedure! ) (Marinika Tepic: I want a word in the Rules of Procedure! The word is "Veriza Radeta". Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22368	In recent times, Minister, you spoke to MPs who submitted amendments and spoke to the opposition and spoke about populistism, etc. I just wish you hadn't been in these benches long ago, that when you speak to the MPs and when you mention that opposition that is not, you should single out the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. We're not in that story. We have submitted amendments because we have a different concept, a different view of the state administration's arrangement than you who are the government and that we have a completely diametrically different attitude towards Serbia's entry into the EU. All, except us in the SRS, under certain conditions or in some way want Serbia in the EU, and we do not want and therefore we do not want the laws that impose on you in this way. You are in this explanation why you do not accept our amendment, Minister, this is a school example, the processing of this amendment is a school example that you have done this by good officers who do not need any additional lectures, who need no national academy, to teach them these or them. So someone took it nicely, compared it, said why you do not accept Article 4, tied it to Article 5, to Article 10, etc., a very serious approach, which is not otherwise the case when it comes to the answers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the amendments that we have submitted. I deliberately singled this out to show you on your case that what you're doing is absolutely unnecessary, that it's an extra cost, um, which is even worse, to introduce a small door to the ministry, or to the state administration, an NGO. Although you already have as many as you want by the ministries, it's already common, you have any foreigners, so there are at least those who really should be working there. But there is one problem in misunderstanding with amendments submitted by MPs from the government. I was interested in two colleagues who read for their two minutes, and then they were so self-satisfying, looking at them from here, getting messages, obviously aunts and aunts were satisfied with the performance, but they really didn't understand anything. It's not, as one said, an amendment to delete a member, it's not a copy-paisy, she doesn't know what she wants to achieve with that amendment. I'm sorry he doesn't know, but even though we're against this national academy, it seems that perhaps some MPs could or at least learn from colleagues who know something or don't speak just to speak. So I'm talking very specifically about two MPs, two ladies from the ruling coalition. The fact that she doesn't know what these amendments want to achieve, here, I'll explain to the citizens of Serbia, who I believe know. So if one parliamentary group, in this case the SRS, believes that there should be no law in the legal system of the Serbian state, then there is no other way to explain it as a parliamentary group and as MPs, but to just delete it, to propose that we delete each member. I would like to say to my dear colleague, if one law has 19 members and if it is proposed to delete each member, then, girl, it is to be achieved that this law does not exist in the legal system. This second one says our amendments don't contribute to a better law. What does the improvement of the law mean? The laws adopted by the assembly majority should contribute to improving life in Serbia, and the improvement of the law is indeed something I heard for the first time. So, please, when you talk about amendments submitted by the SRS to make sure you talk to serious MPs. We don't fight, we don't insult, but you really have to take care of it, or you don't talk to us like that, or you need to learn how to talk to us. You, co-chairman, since I should also be helping the president, be a little more flexible, what you just did is not an honor to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22369	Thank you. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? The word has Professor Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22370	Dear Vice President, at the beginning of the day, let me tell you, personally, Mr Marinkovic, that it is my right, but to pass it on to a fellow member of the People's Parliament, as a People's MP who proposes an amendment, that my right to reason is an amendment whether I will explain it and whether I will withdraw it, but that I am obliged to give an explanation. In that sense, I will not explain this amendment and I am giving my fellow Members of the "never had enough" time to teach the Rules of Procedure, so that it does not happen to warn the MPs of the Rules of Procedure and not to make it look ridiculous.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22371	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. It's her right, she has a right to point. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22372	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 10 is talking about Central Records. So, the central record being kept, and fellow Martinovic was wrong, says he has a 160-square gallery, so much is the volleyball court, that's what you forgot. Next, the second central public administration record says the postman from the former regime bought an apartment of 200 square meters in downtown Belgrade in three months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22373	Thank you. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 10th amendment. The word has Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22374	Thank you, Chairman. Article 10 speaks of the Central Record and we, by our amendment, feel that paragraphs 2 and 3 should be deleted. We have a deep suspicion that the Central Record could be misused, that there is a serious risk of breaching the Constitution guaranteeing the protection of personal data, but all and that the good intention of the legislator was, we have a reasonable doubt that all data on employees who are members of this something that should be called the National Academy of Public Administration, that the data on them will be misused. Why do I say that? Because just during the debate, I had a number of calls from my fellow citizens from both Panchev and Novi Sad, especially from South Banat, who drew our attention that it was actually going to the hands of the SNS political commissioners, who, each in charge of their region, misused public data in order to blackmail employees in municipalities and cities, blackmailed them, forced them to work for the SNS, and in this sense, there is a serious risk that this would now be legitimateized through the law to become practically legal. I got the name of a certain man named Branko Malovic, who, people say, is some SNS coordinator for Pancheva and for the entire southern Banat, who is just misusing data on employees in the city administration of Pancheva and all other municipalities and cities, in order to exert political pressure on non-SNS employees to become such if they want to remain employed in the authorities of state administration. We therefore believe that such prescribed views on the Central Record will be misused, even if there may be a good intention of fellow Ruzic, but his noun Malovic certainly does not have that intention. Please consider this amendment. You have the right and opportunity on the spot to accept it and I believe you will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22375	Thank you, colleague Tepic. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs: together Branka Stamenković and Tatjana Macura and together Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanović. The word is Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22376	Thank you. With this amendment in another article, I asked that any mention of the chariot and the couch be completely thrown out, and I already explained why, I wouldn't repeat myself. What I would like to repeat is questions for the legislator, i.e. for the minister. Let me remind you, I asked, and I didn't get an answer – why, under number one, did we think it was okay to put an alternative method of popular psychology as part of the National Academy that is being paid from the budget of the Republic of Serbia? So why did this have a priority compared to some officially recognised techniques and experts who are much longer trained at the official universities, whose job has the same goal as the carriage business, or the coachman? The second question is, if we've already done it for some reason, I guess there's some reason otherwise it wouldn't have been suggested, then why have we singled out one single alternative method of popular psychology compared to the sea of other possible alternative approaches that can help in that case? I'd really like to ask the Proposer to give an explanation to these two things, because if we stay without an explanation, it remains and doubts that, I'd really like it to be unfounded, but I admit that I have it until I have some explanation and some reason. So, as it's done, there's no way of avoiding suspicion that someone might be privileged to get a job in advance. Thank you in advance for the clarification.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22377	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go, Comrade Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22378	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Marinkovic, as well as in life and in the Assembly, the Anarchy has never produced good results and it is never a good job. We have full registries of unfulfilled promises, that it can no longer fit in the folder, and imagine now that we're starting to read the lies of this government, the deadlines that they've given, broken, about a better life. Yes, it would become anarchy. That's what you allowed the previous, or several speakers before. What I want to say about the amendment, that the amendment is a language character and a Serbian language, as well as other languages are subject to change and there are some Anglicisms, which have already become detached in Serbian in a way that have even become part of public documents, state documents. However, the word coucher, coucher, is not that word. We have a solid Serbian word for it, and that is the word coach, and we propose, with this amendment, simply to replace the coeds with the coaches, to replace the couture with the training and that it is more adequate and meaningful for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22379	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. On the 11th amendment and the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Momcilo Mandić and Sreto Perić and together Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić submitted. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22380	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we are on our way – subject, concept, status, co-operation, detour, who are the organs under this law and then eventually came to a couple. Article 11 speaks of the means to be provided in order to fund the National Academy. There is one very serious catchment area for you by the EU. Does anyone remember when Marko Blagojevic was a director or something like that in CESID and taught Serbian citizens that two plus two is equal to four, and now the same is Marko Blagojevic, director of the Public Investment Management Office. Some funds will now be allocated to the Republic of Serbia, i.e. to the state of Serbia, so that it can finance active persons in the National Public Administration Agency, and then after the citizens of Serbia, as Honored counterpart Zoran Krasic said, at the beginning, the staff costs of the office, or the agency, will be borne by EU citizens, and later the citizens of Serbia who will not be in the EU, will definitely bear, because this is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of the Autonomous Province and of course the budgets of the units of local self-government as well as the bodies and organisations that want and want services from the agency. You know what local self-governments can't finance and then we have a huge difference between citizens living in one part of Serbia and another, and you ask Serbian citizens to finance and employees of the public administration reform agency. We have a completely different concept when it comes to public administration. So we agree that it doesn't work well, which doesn't mean that there are no public administration employees who are doing their job well, top-notch, professionally and very responsiblely. But there's a lot of people who don't do it that way. Our concept is that we need to start with strict control in the education system. There are no diplomas purchased, but only those who, by their work, by their knowledge, by diligent learning, qualify to be employed in this way. Employment on the way, only through a public competition, and then they'll avoid that setting, avoid that partocrat, which you're defending from not having, they say there is, and probably there is. What else is there to control? Control and employees of the state administration system. If they can be cops, don't take this the wrong way, when it rains, when it's dark, to control whether they're driving fast or driving in accordance with the restrictions, and then I guess there's enough inspectors, or the state of Serbia can provide competent people to control employees in the state administration and that those who don't fit the place where they are, both professionally and morally, or in any other way, don't work where they should work. Lifelong learning certainly, that's understood. Today, even on very low-level jobs, which require a very low degree of intellectual skills, one must constantly perfect himself, to work on it, especially in public administration. It's inevitable, mandatory. Adequate salaries to state administration employees, without that there is no solution to this problem. Recently, it seems to me that in the vicinity of the Fireman, when two young men spoke, this one tells the other one – well, you got a job in local self-government, and this one tells him – I did get a job, but I had to bring a table and a chair. Mr. Ruzic, it wasn't in your term, it was something before. This case that I'm talking about, it's probably gonna be quiet and cases like that right now and beyond your knowledge, and if you're willing to stop it, it's gonna happen, and we know that's for sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22381	Thank you, colleague Perich. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22382	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So another amendment that the Serbian Dvori movement has submitted, which is identical to all the amendments to all the members and reads, is deleted. So the only way that this law, which is in our way, is to completely disappear, is to wipe out every member. But if some previous members had any concerns, here's a member who talks about the means to work and where I think the Serbian Daveri movement is absolutely on the official declared policy of the ruling coalition. So, you keep talking about saving. We have suggested that this amendment, which speaks of planned budget funds from strictly defined economic classifications, simply delete, abolish those funds to save and direct them to more necessary places. So you've predicted here exactly five million and seven million and six million and six million and one million and four million and three and a half million from each economic classification, but I don't understand if we've talked about it all in millions why in one place we say that, in addition to the one mentioned for the establishment of spatial and other technical capacities for the work of the National Academy in 2018, it is necessary to provide additional funding of one million and 500 thousand euros. Why aren't there funds everywhere in euros and dinars like they are in this place? Why are they only here in euro? Is this another place where we need to hand over the EU, or will someone give it to us? There are only funds in dinars everywhere, and here they are in euros and in dinars. Here, I'd like the minister to explain it to me, maybe it's something I don't know, because after that he says, or I thought, maybe they're here in the euro, it's easier one and a half million than 186 million dinars, but in another place 31 million is not in the eras. So why is it that every member is deleted, so I explained. You know, it's not worth a white wall made of mud, making a carving out of wood that's rotten or this kind of law to live in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22383	Thank you, colleague Vesovic. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic, submitted to the 11th amendment in the same text. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22384	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, given that in recent days certain MPs of a minority political group in this high House of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, have ripped out the microphone, I give up my reasoning and give up time for their education so that no more similar scandals take place in this high House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22385	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijana Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22386	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this member speaks of tariffs. I listened with attention to a fellow MP from a religious and family group, and I understood that they were very sensitive to the tariff expressed in euros and dollars. Their MPs, the one who was disfellowshipped, received it in dollars. This is an Indji municipality document, when she was an authorised representative of the USAID. As far as I know, it's an organization of frozen U.S.A., at least from the discussion of a previous colleague. So their MP was receiving money from USAID. Let's move on, we've got another one. A gentleman who likes tails, from the same group, and who's just a parade, on these tariffs from this article, the chairman, don't look at me like that, these tariffs should stop these other tariffs. He received 62,000 euros, not in dinars but in euros, under the contract on the STAR project, with the Ministry of Agriculture, which was currently run by Dusan Petrovic. That's it. ............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22387	My colleague Risticevic, it really has nothing to do with this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22388	No, of course not. Article 11, if you have read, speaks of tariffs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22389	Come back, please, for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22390	I'm saying that the ministry and the National Academy, they have to have tariffs that will prevent these tariffs from making our head of sugar travel through Serbia, that corruption does not occur and that this kind of hypocrisy does not occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22391	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, mr. Aleksandar Jerkov, Maja Vidinović, Tomislav Žigmanov, Goran, Jesic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22392	In Article 11(1), point 2 is deleted. It's a proposal for our amendment. Therefore, the draft law in Article 11(1) of point 2 provides for funding from the Training Programme and other professional work related to training programmes to be provided, in addition to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and in the budgets of the AP units of local self-government. So, this amendment, in fact, suggested that since all local self-governments of the AP are already creating budgets and planning in their budgets exchanges in which they plan and regular training for their employees, it is not logical that the two divisions finance the same needs. We'll talk about the practical part. We are, now in October of the month, needed for next year, therefore, to plan, if we want the National Academy to start working, it is necessary to install all people in local self-government to finance, to plan their budgets and for the following year. We don't think it's right at this point, because we know in what state the funding of the largest number of local self-governments is, because we've been passing laws here where we've been constantly reducing transfers, constantly reducing their assets, and constantly increasing some of the competences and their obligations. We know what conditions and public utility systems are in and at local level, but also at central level, and I don't think this cost is needed by the least local self-government. On the other hand, we have already talked about the need to have greater participation in the Programme Council in decision-making, above all representatives of local self-government, representatives of the permanent conference of cities and municipalities, and we think it is very important that, if you are already imposing, and you have already said that you will not accept this amendment, you give greater opportunities to influence them in the way of determining the programmes and what they really need most, because very often we also have to implement, I said the laws, apply some laws, such as the Law on Public Procurement or some other laws that are applied in different ways in different self-governments. Therefore, I call on the minister to accept this amendment, release the local self-government of this unnecessary imposition and try to, right now, direct that energy to local self-government in the adoption of knowledge, good practice and what already exists through years of experience, primarily people working in a permanent conference of cities and municipalities, and we have not given them enough opportunities.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22393	Thank you, colleague Kiric. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22394	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Kiric. Since the Council for Professional Training in Local Self-Government Units has four members from a permanent conference of cities and municipalities and four members from the resolution ministry. According to that logic, of course, it is possible and desirable, if this Council is so defined as to delegate one of the members who will enter this Programme Council, so that they are not neglected, even more involved in it for many years. This will be just one model in which they will be able to show both their representativeness and their presence by entering the Programme Council.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22395	Thank you, Minister Rose. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22396	I thank the chairman. From everything my colleagues said, not to say from everything we've been talking about for days on end, these laws at all, but I'd say that's particularly relevant to this law that we're talking about right now. It is evident that they are controversial, indeed on a number of grounds, a lot of what is contentious here. Since there's been talk about it before, here's what I'm gonna do. So, first of all, how controversial is this commercial business of one institution like this, unfortunately, there's not much time to talk about it, but my colleague mentioned about a former member, disrespect for the Constitution, etc., it would be said that the only thing you were keeping an eye on were your interests, and everything else was somehow in the other plan. But it's very interesting what mistakes have been made here, and what kind of formulas have been subdued here, here, I'm going to read you here, as you listed here in point 2, respectively, point 2) in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP budget. So I have to ask myself, reading this, what's happened here, since we only have one province and maybe Freud could explain this kind of mistake, since I think we all know by the Constitution, and I don't just know who heard it and saw it differently, or found out otherwise, or an anticipated something, perceived it, etc. Here, should we have two provinces? So even that kind of thing you didn't do to write and include this article, even if it's formal to say that Serbia has two provinces, and not just one AP that you didn't mention here, it's probably already known and understood, but we just don't know, or someone hasn't informed us what happened here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22397	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22398	I am obliged to draw further attention to the authors of this text of the bill, since we are talking about a chapter of the law called – the funds for the work of the National Public Administration Academy, that those who wrote this should also go through training, if nothing else through the training for the implementation of the law on the budgetary system. You ministers, on page 16, in an explanation where you are talking about the resources necessary for the work of this National Academy that you try to establish, say that additional funds are needed, or that additional funds of four million dinars from the current budget reserve will be provided. I don't know if anyone explained to you that you can't use this law or any law, and that's not the budget law, that you're doing budget rebalances. You in the current budget reserve can't single out and relocate this law with a means of profit. The amount of revenue from the budget cannot be changed without budget rebalances, and you here are clearly telling us that from the current budget reserve, funds for profits will be allocated. Well, this isn't going to be a unique example in the Republic of Serbia, but I don't know how those who are the authors of this argument are, because obviously it's not you, and if it is, I'm asking you to explain to me how you think from the current budget reserve that you're increasing the funds from the mass of wages paid for this National Academy. That's impossible. It's a direct violation of the Constitution. I insist you give me an explanation of that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22399	Thank you, colleague Tepic. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22400	Thank you, Chairman. Well, Article 11. The bill defines which funds will finance the work of the National Academy. And it is said that the budget of the Republic of Serbia will allocate funds for the general costs of the academy's operations, and that the funds for vocational training and for all professional jobs related to vocational training will be borne by the budget of the republican, autonomous provinces, I would say and agree with my colleague, not the autonomous province, and the budgets of local self-government. However, it is not said here in which percentages they will share those costs. But, Mr. Minister, since this is your project, the Government project, your ministry project and the experiment will certainly mean, we will see what it will look like and how the National Academy will function, we have amended the proposal to put, in addition to the general cost of operating on the burden of the Republic budget, and the costs of general training, as it stands here, what kind of training exists in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, and training for executives. Come on, let's keep that on the burden of the republican budget. Don't constantly burden the budgets of local self-government, because a little bit, so here in the Assembly comes some bill that reduces the revenues of local self-government, and here, a little bit, so some law comes where we increase the cost side of the budget of local self-government. Local self-government has an obligation not only to professionally and financially support professional training of public administration employees, but also of primary education staff, social security employees, kindergarten employees. You can only imagine what a blow that will be to the budget of local self-government to place this burden of professional training on them. The second thing I want to ask you is, in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Servants here in Article 2 of Article 97, which you redefine, you said in the last position – the means for implementing the professional training programme are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. There is no mention of budgets or autonomous provinces or local self-government, so agree these two members of these draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22401	Thank you. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 12th Amendment in the same text were submitted together by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Tomislav LJubenović and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and together by Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22402	And if we were to accidentally think that the law on the National Academy of Public Administration should be passed, then we would be changing this Article 12. This is the manner of ministers not only now of this government, but also of several previous ones, to propose certain laws to the National Assembly and that these laws enter into force either on the date of adoption or perhaps seven days after that, but essentially, all these laws are inapplicable. A law without sublegal acts, especially when it comes to a new law like this, cannot be applied, and you have predicted that it takes you six months to pass sublegal acts. We ask you, as well as any minister, that you do not first prepare, not first but parallelly with this that you have prepared sublaws so that you can apply the law immediately? I just commended your officers who were doing an explanation for that article 10, but I couldn't say the same in article 12. Obviously, it was done by those old officials who really know how the state administration works, not by these fiddlers who are employed without proper diplomas, work experience, etc. If that were not the case, this person would not have written that the amendment to Article 12 would not have been accepted for the same reason as the amendment under regular number 1. It's impossible it's the same motive. We have explained each member separately and you cannot in the same way and especially for all those who have sought, all MPs who have sought to delete the amendments of a member, are all the same reasoning. It is not the same if someone proposes to delete only one member and someone proposes to delete the entire law. You need to put yourself a little bit into what you're doing here and what we need to discuss in the end, the majority of the congregation, of course, and obviously, adopt. Once again, we want to point out that you, through this National Public Administration Academy, are actually going to be funding from the state budget, from the state funds of some kind of private gigs or whatever they're called. That's the point, that you want to go to a small door, and for state money to put into the state administration some, I can't say institutions, some people, NGOs, that have nothing to do with the state administration. The question is, and I'll say a few words about that when I talk about this amendment to Article 16, the question is then – what are the ministries for, what will the ministries do? But I'll talk about it in part two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22403	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22404	I would, first of all, like to explain, as far as Article 12 is concerned. – a six-month deadline is given, but you must have information that a working group working on sublegal acts related to this law has been working since the beginning of August. That six-month deadline was given simply to satisfy all elements. I'm not getting into the fact that some MPs have the right, it's legitimate, that by the model that every member is deleted, they're unthinking the need to pass this law at all, and that's just fine. It is simply because of the public that I want to point out that the working group of this ministry has been working on this since early August and that this will be completed perhaps before the deadline given in the transitional and final provisions. I know I don't have the right, but I just want to get around this political story about whether it's a plural or a singular about the number of provinces, about the province, the unit of local self-government, I agree that a mistake has been made and that legal and technical order needs to be changed, not as far as "the province" is concerned, which is put in one, it clearly says in the methodological rules for making regulations, that everything is written in one, but we here have made a failure in the units of local self-government, where it should stand—units, not—units. I hope we can make it right in the legal and technical order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22405	Thank you. The word is Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22406	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. As regards sub-legislative acts, the resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on legislative activity since June 2013, has been adopted unanimously, in which it clearly states that each proposal is obliged to submit proposals for sublaws in addition to the bill, and if it is proposed by the Government, to inform the National Assembly of the reasons why it did not do so. I know it's gonna take time to practice and I know how much resistance it's been in sentences, but -- we don't know how to make a sublegal act, because we don't know what the law's gonna look like, so you don't even know what the law's gonna look like. The Law had not yet entered the National Assembly and had come out in the same form and no changes, as it was proposed. It would be good for the government to bring sublaws to the MPs, with respect for the Resolution. It would be good for those who apply the law. This is about one practice that is very difficult to change, and I will be free to remind all of us every time that this Assembly voted on a resolution on legislative activity, in which there is a clear requirement for the sublaw to be passed along with the bill. So as the law changes, the decisions of the MPs, then you're just changing the sublegal act. It's part of the rule of law. I don't think you're wrong, I just know it's practice, but it's important that we remember.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22407	Thank you, colleague Komic. Before I move on to the amendment debate to Article 12, I am taking the opportunity to withdraw Radoslav Milojic's notice. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 12th Amendment were submitted by MPs Prof. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. He's got a word for it, Professor. Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22408	Dear Vice President, given that in recent days certain MPs of a minority political group in this high home of the National Assembly, National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic pulled out a microphone, giving up the explanation of the amendments and giving them time for their education, so that similar scandals no longer take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22409	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22410	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment speaks of regulations as well as a member of the law. The rules must be such as to prevent, until yesterday, some yellow head of sugar, marked, as a model of corruption, so to prevent it, because the ultimate goal, who was reading Glisic, that model of corruption applied by the former regime, was to take away that peasant Radan's pasture and vineyard, because it probably reminds you of something over, and it's all done by bogeyman, which reminds me of some bankruptcy manager. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22411	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22412	Thank you, Chairman. With this amendment, we actually want to shorten the time limit for the regulation to be laid down after the adoption of this law, i.e. sublegal acts, and all in a tone, respected ministers, of what I said earlier, in terms of the budget. So, you've predicted six months to pass sublegal acts and you'll already be practically on the doorstep of the second quarter of the next... I ask for your attention since, as I understand it, you are here for us, because you draw attention to us not to follow or not to be there, and you are constantly dreary as I address you. I want an explanation under the amendment, because you can also adopt it, after all, during the debate, and you don't. So you don't listen, you don't adopt amendments. If you would accept this amendment to shorten the period for the adoption of sublegal acts to three months instead of six, you could be able to comply with the laws of the Republic of Serbia and, before the entry into force of the 2018 budget laws, to bring all that follows after the adoption of this law. If the solution that you have offered remains, which is six months, to pass a sublegal act, you are on the threshold of the second quarter, not the first, budgetary 2018, and you are at serious risk of applying this law in quality or in any way without violating other regulations of the Republic of Serbia. It is therefore absolutely optimal, and as you yourself have stated, a working group for writing sublegal acts has been working since August of the month to accept this amendment, to reduce time to three months and, by respecting budget laws, you are going in line with what you have to do as a representative of the Government and not to violate it in advance. You cannot transfer money from the current budget reserve for a profit mass, i.e. to increase the amount of profits made by this law. That's possible, but it has to be rebalanced, not by any other sectoral law, not by this. Therefore, you will break the law if you allocate funds from the current budget reserve, or you provide additional funds for profits for the National Academy. Don't break the law and I beg you to adopt this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22413	Thank you, colleague Tepic. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22414	I thank you for the criticism you've given me. Of course we listened to you. There is no violation of the law here, nor is your proposal related to what you were now talking about at the end of your presentation. The fact that the amendment of MP Dusan Pavlovic from the Parliamentary Group was adopted was quite simply that the adoption of your amendment would mean that we are canceling what we have accepted. As far as the critical situation is concerned, if it is now three months or nine months, we precisely want to take as much time as it is enough to prepare and sublegal acts and to carry out clear consultations with all actors, because this is not the National Academy that will work in 2018, but is the National Academy that must be placed on sound foundations and operate properly from the beginning. As for the appraisals changing the purpose of funds from the current budget reserve, these cases were. This is about a really small amount that will be needed to ensure that the law is implemented after the adoption of this house, if this law is passed, and I am convinced that it will, and I don't think there's any need to raise the tension on this matter at all. So, the amendment of Dusan Pavlovic, with a proposal that has been our proposal for six months, has been adopted to extend it to nine months, for the reason that, simply knowing the situation, the human potential, the fact that if someone does not know, I would like you to know for the public that in the Ministry of State and local self-government with seven sectors and the administrative inspectorate works 100 people, with letters and numbers.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22415	Thank you. The word has Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22416	First, you unwarrantedly commented that I did not speak, that the amendment does not contain what I was talking about. It makes it very clear that the amendments should be properly entered into the next financial year and therefore I have also talked about the use, i.e. the timely adoption of sublegal acts in relation to the relevant law. The second thing, I'm glad you've brought out here for me now is an absolutely amazing piece of information, that so far there's already been the provision of additional funds from the current budget reserve for employee earnings. Please and I insist that you answer me what cases it was, that we hear where it is -- now there is, now there is no, now there is little more money, from the mass of earnings, we are talking about the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which were still cases when the current budget reserve was used to settle additional profits, because it is not allowed under the law and not under this law. It can only rebalance the budget, and we all know what the procedure for amending the Budget Law is, and I'm just saying -- the budget rebalance. You yourself have made a public claim here earlier that you would disprove me, and I am glad that you made that claim because for the first time the public of Serbia hears that the current budget reserve from the budgets filled by all taxpayers serves to settle additional profits and to change the mass of profits. I insist you tell me what the cases were, when it happened and what profits it made, in which executive bodies, in which government services, in which public enterprises and if you said so, give us the information to the end. Otherwise, I'm going to think you're also breaking a series, now, of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22417	Thank you, colleague Tepic. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic. The word has a colleague, Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22418	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, it is fair to say that nine months is enough time for a sublegal act to take place, but I must explain my amendment to the bill of law that you have made. First of all, my motive is a little different from the colleagues who have already explained, with whom I agree, I mean my colleague Vjerica Radet, Gordana Comić and Marinika Tepic. By the way, you've filed this law in an emergency procedure. So, the Law on the National Academy of Public Administration has been filed by an emergency procedure, and the sublegal act will be passed in six months. This is Article 12, and in connection with Article 17, which says the Internal Systematization Regulation of the National Academy will be brought in six months. So she won't be able to function in the next six months without all the regulations. So we're passing one law by emergency procedure even though it's not going to work for six months. My motive was just to cut that time to three months. Another, which tells me my parliamentary experience, that those laws that are inapplicable at this point are not applied precisely because of the delay in making sublegal acts. So the law is passed for everything, the general character is, and he has to oblige the officials to do the rule as soon as possible. That's why we wanted the amendment simply to push the administration to do these sublaws in three months, not six months, so that this law becomes applicable as soon as possible, or three months from now, and not six months from now. That's my motive. There's a few other things I'll be talking about when it's Article 17, Article 13. So, one more thing I want to say. In the law, you have put in place that until the start of the new sublegal acts, the sublegal acts that have been in force so far apply. This is the new institute. The National Academy of Public Administration is a new thing. There are no sublaws that regulate the National Academy. In that sense, I think this is inapplicable in the next six months, and I just wanted to cut the time short and make it more applicable, that is, in three months, not six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22419	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22420	I really appreciate these constructive suggestions. Article 13 in the transitional and final provisions clearly states that, you are right that the National Academy is a new state body, but professional training exists today, there will be tomorrow. As far as questions are concerned, Article 13 clearly defines that, in accordance with the powers laid down in this law, sublegal acts and programmes will lead to the entry into force of this law, which clearly exists, other than provisions contrary to this law. Also, this means that the systematisation, as the law says, will be adopted within the time limit, these are already other members, but there are likely amendments to them too, to be adopted within 60 days of the entry into force of this law, so that the National Academy will function in accordance with Article 13 of the transitional and final provisions, and after the adoption of sublegal acts under the new model will function further. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22421	Thank you, Minister Rose. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22422	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest that this amendment be not accepted. In full agreement with what the minister said earlier as well as with the views set out in the reasoning of the opinion of the Government of Serbia, and I would point out on a specific case why it is good that we pass the Law on the National Academy of Public Administration and why it is bad that so far we have not had a National Academy of that kind, or professional training of public administration employees, for example, some president of municipalities. In particular, the President of Vračar Municipality, etc. Perhaps that would prevent us from getting into a sad situation, in which we came a few days ago, when a family was evicted from their apartment, and that case received greater media attention. I'm saying, maybe that's how we'd stop it, because the president of Branimir Kuzmanovic municipality did not find it appropriate over the years, while he led the Vracar municipality, to take the meeting, to receive the family's conversation. But the party from which the amendment promoter came and who spoke earlier tried to politicise the case. She tried to represent it as something that the SNS or current government were guilty of, which is absolutely not true. So, I'd just read it for the citizens, and it's going to take a very short time, a statement from a woman who's just been evicted from that house. It is Dobrila Petrovic, who says – the Democratic Party is guilty, and I am grateful to Vukic...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22423	My colleague Markovic, please accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22424	Please, I'm explaining, I'm giving you an example of why it's good to professionally perfect the presidents of the municipalities, future, current, not to get into a situation where a president of the DS absolutely didn't want to, he didn't have any interest in meeting with a woman who was in trouble, to take her in for an interview. That's why we need the National Academy of Public Administration. To professionally perfect employees, among other things, the presidents of municipalities who will have the hearing to deal with citizens' problems. And, as I said, Dobrila Petrovic said, "I am grateful to the Wolf who took care of my underage children and me." And condemns the DS who tried to express myself without being too hasty, who tried to profit politically from her accident. I only have three sentences to say. The first thing is, the SNS can't go into court judgments, it can't go into court decisions. What she can do, and what she did, is humanely aided the Petrovic family. Third, which is very important, the DS didn't want to accept the family's conversation. For years, she refused to help those people.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22425	Thank you. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs together Zoran Krasic, Bozidar Delic and Nikola Savić together with Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted the 13th amendment. The word has an esteemed colleague, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22426	Mr Marinkovic, in the Republic of Serbia, there are very important reforms in various social areas, of which the European integration process is one of the most important to make quality decisions, which primarily refers to the ability of public administration to fully implement adopted regulations, i.e. public policies in practice. There is also an urgent need for administrative capacity, as one of the criteria for EU accession. The government views public administration reform and European integration as two interrelated and conditional processes, the letter-heads. Although there is no adequate flow of European law in the area of the public administration system, certain EU principles and principles have been adopted. That's the main reason why this law is passed. So this law must also be passed by EU order. As for Article 13, Mr Marinkovic, he is that he belongs to transitional and final provisions, but he says programmes that exist will continue to apply. And here's Mr. Ruzic, one of the programs that binds your ministry. This is the management of the public policy system. Monitoring the implementation, evaluation and enforcement of the public policy management process. Target - improving the capacity of follow-up participants. The expected outcome – upon completion of the seminar, the participants mastered the basic concepts. Content, term and type of impact indicator, so now it's listed. The target group – managers and civil servants working on planning and monitoring or participating in organ planning. The form of professional training – there is no wheel, but the professional training of civil servants will be carried out through instructive seminars, Mr Ružić. Methods and techniques, interactive lectures, workshops, discussions, case study, group size Mr. Ruzic, up to 25 participants. Duration, two days and 11 hours. Why did I read this? It is the same as when she was a relative of Olje Bećkovic, who was involved in education, had to provide public procurement for public enterprises, and they trained managers as well. The first class was a swimsuit, how to get to know each other better. The second class was as good as lunch. The third class was how to have dinner. The next day was informal socializing, in the afternoon, to exchange phones and those as management of a public enterprise to be in continuous communication, because the success of the company and overcoming EU standards depend on their good friendly relations. There, it is funded by the EU, as has been funded by the formation of agencies and other para-state bodies, in order to create a capillary system, a system that could not control any ministry, nor the government, so that no one who receives the national trust in this country would rule and receive all the instruments to rule, but capillaries under EU administration. That is why it is good, regardless of these chapters and what you are agreeing with them, that this law is not passed, because we will have great material damage, spiritual damage, without talking about professional damage, because in the European administration, no one has ever been able to learn from this European administrative right, because there is nothing in the EU that is codified.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22427	Thank you, colleague Krasic. Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22428	The Honorable Vice President, since the former regime's party should have passed this law on the National Academy ten years ago, and it was not, for saving time, by giving up the reasons of this amendment so that the law would be applied as soon as possible and revived by the National Academy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22429	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22430	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, this is about Article 13, sublaws, it is not about entering and entering Serbia into the EU, but while we are already at it, I argue, and that it is certain that citizens know that if Serbia enters the EU, it will certainly not enter with Belgrade and the nearby environment. As for sublegal acts and laws, I think they should always be passed, changed, beneficial to all people, not just for individuals, as it was in the recent past when gentlemen of public functions made private businesses, villas, apartments, Vienna, Vračar, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22431	On the 14th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs together Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Dubravko Bojić and together Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dubravko Bojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22432	We have submitted the amendment to Article 14. Proposal for a law on the National Academy of Public Administration. Not to repeat, we have heard from my fellow MPs of the SRS, who is our general position on this bill. We are against this parasitic organization on the back of the global public administration. Imagine a special educational institution, serving for education and training of public administration employees. We have a paradox here. Untaught or ignorant teaches someone, not only to teach them, but to perfect them. I would remind you of that Marks woman - to raise you, you must be brought up. Of course it's about education here. It was heard here today by some colleagues on my left, that there will be no party employment here. I don't know what a guarantee is. As long as the party, godfather's and family's mark is a measuring unit, not knowledge and education, so long as they are able and those who possess knowledge will sit workingly uninvolved and wait to leave the country of Serbia together with all their knowledge, and Serbia will remain one of the largest exporters of knowledge at the lowest possible price. It is important that you are a national academic, accredited and certified according to the latest European fashion. I would remind you that the vast majority of us have been educated, educated and perfected without accreditation and certification, and that it has acquired a very solid level of education, some even top-notch in the field of management and management, and of course, all of this without wheels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22433	Thank you, Professor. I'll be afraid. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs were submitted by Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22434	The Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, since the party to the former regime should have passed this law ten years ago, and it is not, I am giving up the reasoning of this amendment so that the law will see the light of day as soon as possible and bring the National Academy to life.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22435	The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22436	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's about taking over personnel and my advice to the ministry is to get a good read on these personnel, because there are a lot of public officials who are just planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22437	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The word has a national emissary Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22438	Dear colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, we have submitted an amendment to Article 14 which reads that the law applies on the day of entry into force. However, we believe that the National Academy is beginning to work on the day of entry into force of this law. We believe that the National Academy, and that's the change we've made, can't begin to work before 1 January 2018, because this law, when it comes into force, isn't enough for it to start working. In fact, already my colleague, Marinika Tepic, spoke about this, it is necessary to rebalance the budget for 2017, because by introducing any financial position, i.e. by singled out or by changing it from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, if necessary for the National Academy, and especially from the current budget reserve for unemployment, the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for the current year is directly violated. These additions and changes are not possible without amending the Budget Law. It is therefore necessary or to implement these amendments and to move the start date of work of the National Academy, not by way of effect of this law, but from 1 January 2018, means after the adoption of the Budget Act for 2018. As it is, Article 14 is so defined, except for what I have stated, it is directly in collegiate with Article 17, which we will later say something about.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22439	Thank you, colleague Pavlovic. Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dusan Pavlovic, together Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanović and Aleksandra Belačić and together Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić. I apologize to the MPs, Minister Ruzic came in a little late, so we'll give him a word after the previous amendment. Here you go, Minister Rose.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22440	Thank you. I apologize if I have come forward with a delay, but simply because of the correctness towards the MPs, or MPs, who have pointed out the possibility of violating the Budgetary System Act. I think it is important to know that Article 61(3) clearly states that in the event of the establishment of a new direct, indirect, budget user, means of its operations or powers, they are provided from the current budget reserve. That's one. Two, we have to bear in mind that the deadline for the adoption of the systemization is 60 days, that this is about one salary, and as for those who are being taken over from the Staff Management Service, their salaries are already foreseen by the previous budget, so there is really no reason to raise tensions and that someone thought we were going to violate the Budget System Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22441	Thank you, Minister Rose. Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dusan Pavlovic, together Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanović and Aleksandra Belačić and together Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, Mr. Crassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22442	This is a member who regulates the takeover of the Human Management Service, and I'm just going to read this argument. I'm just surprised you didn't accept what we said. So the observations of longtime civil servants, i.e. public administration employees, are next. Mostly public administration employs staff with various diplomats at a certain time and by some contracts. Wherever they go, they don't care about jobs they don't know how to do, but they don't care about learning how to do. Every increase in work is directly held on the closure of that small number of employees who know how to work. So they're being punished, the ones they know how to do. So we have in the public administration employees who can't be handed an object to do it, because it's known they'll never be done, but they're taking pictures and fighting for the leading places in the hierarchy. They don't work in higher positions, they don't take responsibility. That's why everyone who knows the job and works can't wait to leave the public administration because they can't make it to work. In addition, newly employed people who do not work are practically the main reason why there has been a reduction in salaries in public administration, as limited and limited amounts of income are paid more and better by those who do not work. So it's not just perception, it's an impression, it's quite a fact in public administration. One of my colleagues just said that we have a paradoxical situation, that whoever works at the local self-government in the administration, if he's late for work, it might happen that day he doesn't have a chair where to sit, because the administrations are overbooked. But there is an even worse thing, in that and such administration there are people who don't know how to make a decision in the administrative procedure, they don't know anything about the jurisdiction of local self-government. There is no better situation when it comes to civil servants working in the state administration or in the province administration. If someone thinks that this way and such a bill can remove this fundamental flaw, it is wrong, because this law is needed for the EU, for the sake of the chapters, because of the funds used and the funds that will only be used to unify our state administration to be like a spit-out administration of Brussels. That's why we raise our voice and we're against this law, because we think there are much better ways and better solutions to get quality people who work in the state administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22443	Thank you, colleague Krasic. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22444	Thank you, Chairman. Of course, we are asking that this provision be deleted, or Article 15 of the foreseen law on the National Academy of State Administration, and an additional motive for that is precisely the next question. Since I'm a member of the board says that the National Academy is taking over from the Staff Management Service of Employees and appointed persons, we're wondering what the Staff Service has been doing so far, or the management of personnel in this country? Does this mean that we already had some kind of national academy or at least someone who should have cared about the quality of our employees in the state administration? So, has anyone ever had to check out what kind of diplomas the government employees have? Is there anyone who needs to check to see if their doctoral work is plagiarized and why he didn't do his job? So now the National Academy is continuing this role as this Staff Management Service, and we don't even know what the effect of the Human Management Service is. Did she manage only the SPS and SNS personnel and where they should be deployed, which places and what functions to go, or did she really do her job? Because, look, if this Staff Management Service has done its job well so far, then what's the National Academy of State Administration doing? If so far’s Human Management Service has done its job badly, where is the responsibility of those who have conducted the ministry, and where is the responsibility of the regimes that have functioned so far? By starting the National Academy of State Administration, do you admit that you've been working badly so far? Remember, the SPS has been in power for 25 years, and the SNS has been in power for six years. So, if you're making a new service now, it means that your service so far has worked badly. Are there any people responsible for this? When will anyone in Serbia be responsible for anything bad done at the head of this country? It's actually the basis of what we're opposed to this law for. You haven't done anything good yet, and you're offering us a new idea that should guarantee that something will change. Well, what's going to change when, in 25 years' time, the SPS and six-year-old SNS authorities haven't changed anything? You're still a party employee, you're putting your people in party directorial posts. You've placed first-class party men in the post of governor of the NBS, as head of the BIA. Wait, people, so what places are they left to be professional, that they can really be for those who went to school for it, for those who aren't your party employees or your cameramen who listen to everything you tell them? Is it normal for BIA to be someone who's a senior party official? Is it normal for the NBS to be led by someone who is vice president of the ruling party, vice president or what is the former president, Jorganka Tabakovic? So, the facts are that whenever you had a chance to show that there are some places where people are supposed to be, you didn't do it, you set up your party man, from the roaster you sent to the head of the EPS, to the ceramics you've appointed head of the BIA. So that's why we can't be for this law. Because no one can trust you in Serbia anymore. After 25 years of SPS authorities, after six years of SNS authorities and all false pre-election promises, you just can't be trusted anymore. That's why we think it should withdraw this law, because the National Academy of State Administration will be just a party academy to continue hiring members of SNS and SPS. That's why we're against all this. I repeat my proposal once again, that the academy should bear the name Maja Gojkovic flyover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22445	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22446	Of course, once again, the chance to congratulate on the attitude, the kind of heroic attitude of a bully who hasn't missed the chance to show him again who he is and what he is. On this occasion, an additional expert who has not missed an opportunity to show how professional he is and how understanding he is in all living things. As far as bullying is concerned, it is more than clear to Serbia. It's here over and over again by every occurrence and every word of the man who did it again. He's doing it for himself now, even if we don't look back on something excessive. It's good until he does it to others. Sometimes I feel like she's having a kind of crisis when she doesn't seem to hit a woman or shake her hand for 15 days, so she's got to make up for her lack in the National Assembly. But while he's abstinent in that sense, he's fine. If it's only gonna end up in verbal aggression, let's give him an ally. The other thing is to mediate here, that expertise. You know, this man has given himself the right to discuss an institution like the National Bank and staffing at the National Bank. Not to worry too much. So, although, just as in the case of the president of the National Assembly, and in the case of governors, he primarily shakes himself over a woman, he is unable to think at all, let alone suggest something on the subject of human resources solutions or any work by the National Bank of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here not once, but many times, but familiar with essential genius and phenomenal solutions in terms of work to be done, let's say, an institution like the National Bank, and as this great expert sees it. You remember all of it, by solving all of this country's needs by printing pairs, how well he explained it to us, and then we'll have for everything and then we'll share both for wages and for pensions and finance his phenomenal ideas. That level of understanding, that level of understanding and this place, but also anything in the state, is an indicator of seriousness, so I'm going to say the brains we can and expect from it. I end up with that, Mr. Chairman, it's just right and serious how much their assessment was given last Friday that the day before that was, imagine, the last Thursday of the month, October 5th, the last Thursday of the month. Well done.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22447	The word has Minister Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22448	Indeed, for the sake of truth, simply to know that the Staff Management Service is a valuable segment of professional training, that the scope of professional training applies primarily to the Republic administration, that it is established in accordance with Article 31. The government law and the scope of the work of the National Academy will be much broader. So neither the Staff Management Service has done anything wrong, which is very good, but still not to enter into something that is not the job of a minister, nor is it the subject of some politicisation or partocrat, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22449	Thank you, Minister Rose. The right to replica has Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22450	I thank you, Chairman. We in the SPS parliamentary group are not surprised by the fascination of the so-called president. Serbia's Dvora movement towards the SPS, and the fascination continues. She's not controversial. As far as you're concerned, Mr. Ruzic, as Minister, is indeed a high recognition that you are not responding to the final populist statements and this fascination that you experienced today in the Serbian Parliament, which is also a reflection, after all, of the dignity of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. But what really stings the eyes and the eyes of the Serbian citizens is that it throws wood and stones at the SPS, insults the SPS members and the SPS leadership, and does not explain why the fellow MP Srdjan Nogo, whose father was just a member of the city's SPS board at a time when the SPS was just dominated by power. When I was talking about the personal ethical code, here's the opportunity where this personal ethical code should be shown, or how ethics comes into expression. Next, the SPS and the SPS MPs will never allow themselves to be brought down to the level as we heard from the so-called representative today. Serbia's Dvora movement. Our vocabulary, in any case, deserves attention, if nothing else, then from the point of view of dignity and dignified expression, primarily cultural character. On the other hand, we couldn't hear it. I don't want to compare us or anyone else who doesn't deserve it in any way, because we have stability. Those who don't have it... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22451	Thank you. The right to replica has Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22452	Thank you, Chairman. I have an obligation to read Professor Sreto Nog's reply, as it has been called here on two occasions today by both the minister and the president of the SPS parliamentary group. In the message I got from him himself says this - tell them that I was in the SPS and when I realized that there was most hohstapplers and thugs, people who buy diplomas, I left you, but I also told you in your face. So my obligation was to pass on the opinion of the former SPS member on current leadership of the SPS, and I think the man who was called here twice deserved to have a word and that I could say something on his behalf. So it's actually a picture of what I'm talking about here. True socialists, people who did not vote for Alexander Vukic in the presidential elections, people who do not allow themselves to be abused by the current leadership of the SPS, who looks exclusively at their chairs and their personal interests are, like Prof. Dr. Sreto Nogo, others principled, others moral and others outside and the molded coalition with SNS. I have just pointed out the principle of Minister Ruzic, who until he got the state office, like Velimir Ilic, was the one who was the most gravitated against the current government, and then when he got the ministerial chair he became the one who celebrated the name of the greatest son of all peoples and peoples of Aleksandr Vukic. So much for the principle of SPS. And the principle of SNS is best said that whenever they attack the former regime they never attack the SPS, their current coalition partner, who is the former regime 25 years back. So, when you're fighting crime and corruption, gentlemen of the Progressives, you can take the turn of ministers in your government and of the members of the SPS with whom you're in the coalition, that's where you'd find a lot of elements to fight crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22453	Thank you. The right to replica has Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22454	I thank you, Chairman. I'm glad there's been another demonstration of something that doesn't exude by culture or dignity. Reading the message that's supposed to be with the text as it is is just confirmed what I said. It is literally confirmed that if nothing else, then the ethics or the personal ethical code requires – don't spit where you were and don't spit on what you did. The way you did and what you did, you know it best. If Velja Ilic has said something somewhere and if it is true, of course, I am underlining this "if it is true", that he said that far better candidates had than the president so-called. Serbia's Dvora movement when hiring at the library in Chačka, if that's true, and if it's true that he said that the candidate who's chosen was just enough to wipe the dust off the books, then we come to a situation where we think about whether employment in the library in Cacca was part-departmental or not. If it's not partocrat character, so much better, but if it is, then it's a kind of hypocrisy manifested in this high house, which this tall home certainly doesn't deserve. I would not go any further because I said - neither the SPS, nor I, nor the ruling coalition intend to descend to the level of dialogue and communication that is far below our value level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22455	Thank you. The word is Bosko Obradović. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22456	Thank you, Chairman. I am very pleased and pleased when the ruling majority mention Velimir Ilic, minister in their governments. Neither Dvori nor I personally had with Velimir Ilic, unlike you. It's your friend, it's your minister, it's your coalition partner, the first SNS coalition partner in its political history is Velimir Ilic and New Serbia. Look how they forgot it. You see how they wash their hands of Velimir Ilic. You see how awkward it is now that the brothers are no longer hugged and Velimir Ilic brings out the truth and dirty laundry from the advanced kitchen, when he reveals the truth of what Andrej Vukic is doing in Serbia, then Velimir Ilic is no longer good. He was good to Alexander Vukic to be his minister twice, and then Veljo is the best in the world. Now that he's out of your coalition and he's telling the truth about the state not being run by both SNS and SPS but by the Vukic brothers and their godmothers, then he's a tad in the Assembly Hall and then Velimir Ilic is suddenly not some cute creature you've held in government in two ministerial places. Now, that's your hypocrisy I'm talking about here. Neither Dvori nor I personally had anything to do with Velimir Ilic. We only have trials with Velimir Ilic and in court we will prove those slanders he accused of both my father and me and Dvery and everything else. I judge and fight with him, and I have replaced him with power in Chačka, and you cooperate with him; you were with him in the coalition; he was good to you; and now you disown him, and so one day, I now tell you to deny Alexander Vukic and the brothers of the Wolf, and the godmothers of the Wolf, and you will not know them, and you will hide that you have ever been with them and in their party, and you will be ashamed of being members of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22457	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line. I ask all of you not to be the theme of today's session, Mr. Velimir Ilic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22458	I don't mind, Mr. Chairman, that we may respect your proposal, but so much of this DOS lightness has shaken the subject. I listened to him say dramatically what he had in the last two minutes. I have to tell you, I almost got tears on my eyes. It seems that he was moved by the reminder of his early beginnings and the first job he spoke of by his colleague Jovanovic, and the fact that this hypocrisy and attitude towards people can also be measured by how he treated his benefactor. How he immediately put a knife in his back and decided to build his insignificant, but what kind of political career, at the expense of the one who provided him with the first job and helped him take his first steps. By the time it reached Dragan Gilas and the serious money, a more serious organization had already forgotten something, and so have you, former first friends. I always find it fun to talk about principles and hypocrisy with those people who have shown interest in that subject. Almost as much fun, Mr. Chairman, as when we speak on the subject of expertise. You remember, a little bit of that story about printing money, somewhere around here, if not a little while longer, it's good whether or not, and when it comes to principles and hypocrisy. Who? Well, for example, those who have granted themselves the role of great patriotism, the hater of all Western, all European and from time to time, the critics of some DOS from which they have denied themselves. What they do is that it's a classic DOS property, it's obvious in itself. But when they forget it, they deal with DOS, as they do, for example. Doss Vedette Vuk Tadic's Jeremy? Did he himself say that he is as patriot and patriot as Vuk Tadic, as well as the one who removed Kosovo and Metohija from the UN. It's just as patriotic and patriotic as the one who has addressed the International Court of Justice and Pristina and is doing a favor. When he says that about his environment, even himself, I have nothing more to add to the subject of his hypocrisy and his principles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22459	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. We're going to the next amendment. On Article 15 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic, submitted. The word has the People's MP, Professor Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22460	Dear Vice-President, since certain MPs of a minority political group of the high House of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have, in recent days, ripped out the microphone, giving up the explanation of the amendments and giving up time for their education that similar scandals would no longer occur in this House of National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22461	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22462	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, this amendment speaks of taking over personnel, so please don't interrupt me. My recommendation to the National Academy and a recommendation to my friend Velja Ilic, who is responsible for the changes, is next. Given the low rating to take over the librarian, a member of the library, a library spokesman, a nonpartial, non-parasitical Vela's proposal. Well, he didn't propose it as party chief. He suggested it as a friend of his father's. Velimir Ilic personally told me that he was the head of the Communist Party party's party's party in hydrobuilding. The father of the "two cabbages" was his deputy. They were the last generation to train at Kumrovec. In the village of Vranic, Grandpa of the Librarians was famous for giving the locality for the detention of these cults during UDBA and leather coats. That is why I recommend that the Chačan library take over its portfolio, watch the spokesman of the Chačan library, it is a very large obligation, and on the other hand I recommend to the public administration in Cačka, to form a village library in Vranic or Preljina, that Ševarlic, who himself wrote in his biography, is the youngest Tito's committee in the city of Belgrade, to be taken over by him, he could be a spokesman for the village library in Vranic or Preljina, and to successfully distribute that study he did not write, and for which he received from Dusan Petrovic 60,000 euros to write in a thousand copies, which means that he is the most expensive-paid writer in Serbia, more expensive than Ivo Andric. So, I recommend that both of you take over the chacha and the preliminary library. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22463	Thank you. You didn't mention the name, and I don't recognize you, and I don't want to do it. So I don't know and I ask the MPs not to mention the private life and Velje Ilic, who is not here, in the end. Thank you, Mr. Radovic, for your understanding. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. There's a message, an honourable letter, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22464	Thank you, at least verbally in the same treatment on your part, all the MPs, since until a moment ago they were respected colleagues, and the others were not respected colleagues. But it's good, we respect the correction. Our amendment to Article 15 has been accepted and has become an integral part of the law and that is good news. What's bad news, and that's why I want to explain what it's contained in this amendment is that by who knows what time I'm here I'm trying to point out that the legislators, or members of the government, who signed this bill and sent it to the National Assembly, don't know the basic things and don't read the laws that are required to comply, because then it wouldn't have happened to this member who regulates the takeover of staff members from the Staff Management Department at the National Academy that they are there and the faces placed there. Therefore, the author of this law would know that the appointed persons cannot be taken over in the manner in which this law provided for them, i.e. just as we would say, they must first be resolved from the position in question and then re-entered into another state body. So once again, I take the opportunity to point out to you, that you are the persian of professionalization and that you as a resolute minister, and then all the members of the government, especially the Prime Minister, are going after you and are going to prepare for the state's professional exam, to first question you, to get acquainted with the Constitution, with labour law, with the division of power, with labour legislation, and then of course become the first students of this National Public Administration Academy and thus help themselves, but also teach us to write laws. I must further say that I am not satisfied with your reasoning because you have not given it to me, but you have answered me to the other MP, an explanation concerning the funds of the current budget reserve, or the respect of Article 61. The law on the budgetary system and answered, i.e. trying to respond to my criticism that the funds from the current budget reserve cannot be redeployed by this law, i.e. that no additional funds can be provided for profits. You quoted a member of the Budgetary System Act as saying that for newly established organisations that are directly users of the budget, funds from the current budget reserve can be provided, but this cannot apply to the mass of earnings. Please tell you that the mass of earnings is in a special regime and in the Budgetary System Act and, of course, in the Budget Law and that this is not possible for the current budget reserve to be replaced or additionally provided, and that this can only happen with budget rebalance rather than with these provisions of the relevant law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22465	Thank you. I must point out that the Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 16th Amendment were submitted to the same text by the MPs Dusan Pavlovic, together with Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandar Seselj and Petar Jojic, together with Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Petar Jojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22466	Ladies and gentlemen, this country from Karajordje to today has been changing administration, and since 2000 we have had inflation agencies and academia. There's a question that's questionable, as Ante Fijamengo sociologist said, does this country benefit from these agencies and from these academys? It's a similar case in the judiciary. Who are the personnel who refer to the Judicial Academy? Now the question is, what kind of personnel are these going to be that administration will propose for this National Agency in the Public Administration? All this goes to the expense of taxpayers, and officials on the party line from 2000 to today, come, mostly, to privileged jobs and are employed on these grounds. The Serbian Radical Party believes the institution is unnecessary. This multiplys bureaucracy. This directly impactes the Republic of Serbia's budget. When I say the budget, it's hitting the taxpayer's pocket, and especially in this year when we have a situation of a basic drought, the government would be smart if an institution or agency had established to eliminate the effects of drought. There's no drought in the administration, and there's no drought in the government, we can see that. The Serbian Radical Party has given an explanation, given by Mr Krasic and Mrs Vjerica, in detail, which is why the SRS considers this novelty to be EU models that Serbia will never enter, and the ultimatums placed before Serbia are easily accepted, and accepted, which is absolutely unacceptable for the SRS. You see, budget funds were provided earlier. You have commented earlier, however, whether they were secured in 2016 or 2017 does not matter at all, but the money comes from the budget and the officials and bureaucracy that can only cause damage in this country are paid, and it uses nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22467	Thank you, colleague Ostojić, I apologize, Jojic. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22468	Therefore, Article 16 of this Bill on the National Academy of State Administration states that the National Academy is taking over from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government records of established and implemented general programmes for the professional training of civil servants. You see, Mr. Ruzic, it would be very valuable that you, along with this law, have added, let's say, that documentation to see what that very professional training of civil servants has been like so far. Let's see, for example, how did Minister Vulin become Secretary of Defense without even serving a military term? What professional training did he undergo in the state service to move from the post of Minister of Labour to the post of Minister of Defence? That's what we're talking about. That's what it looks like, actually, your party divisions of prey. That's what your party-parasitic system looks like. So, today you're the Minister of Labour, tomorrow you're the Secretary of Defense. It doesn't matter that you're not a case for either one, it's important that you're a reliable party man, or that you're a personal friend of his deity, the president of the state. So in that sense, we cannot agree on such a legal solution. We're looking for an erasure of this member too, because we believe this is all an abuse of state resources for party purposes. If that were not the case, the Serbian army would never be in command and it would be lined up by someone who didn't serve a military term for one minute. It's just not normal. It's not an ethical code, gentlemen fellow MPs. If you had that ethical code, you would never allow the humiliation of Serb soldiers to have the obligation to stand still and salute someone who has never served a military term. Now, that's a humiliation to the state service. Now, that's the humiliation of civil servants. So I'd like to see this record, how did you professionally perfect Vulin to be Secretary of Defense? Thank you. The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic. Here's to the amendment. (Jorge Komlenski: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22469	Okay. Do you give the replica to George Komlensky or by amendment? (Jorge Komlenski: When Maya is finished.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22470	Please, just keep up the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22471	Thank you. Of course, the SNS cannot accept the amendment submitted by the parliamentary group and whose president spoke and tried to explain the amendment, but apparently he knows nothing about what was written and what it would want to change with. The purpose of the interpretation of this amendment was a clean, empty political story and an attempt to offend the people who run this country and who are voted by the citizens of Serbia to the extent unimaginable for the parliamentary group that submitted this amendment, and to understand ourselves, they will never come into the situation that someone says to them that – the deities that Serbian citizens have chosen to lead this country, because they have barely entered this parliament, but what it is, there it is. It is democratic to submit amendments, but it is not democratic to disrespect the procedure and not to know that other than mere insults, you say something and convince anyone in this country that the amendment should be adopted. I have to take a shorter course on what it means to be a minister in the government, not only in Serbia, but in the whole world. Ministers are political figures, they are chosen by parties, and I am incredibly disturbed by the demagogues that we and the citizens of Serbia are forced to listen to for days about how ministers should be people from the profession, and how the government, not only of the Republic of Serbia, but also in the whole world, should be somehow a professional association led by people who are trained in certain areas. It has nothing to do with the essence of political life. I must inform the amendment's applicant that the minister, who today is the president of the Democratic Party, who, under the circumstances in the coalition with the Dveri parliamentary group, was the defence minister and that he never served the army. He wasn't even trying to serve the army. People's MPs are getting, "How?" ) By the fact that the Minister of Culture, how can I explain to you respected colleagues and citizens, does not have to be a ballerina. And Jacques Lang wasn't even a ballerina, he wasn't even a painter, he wasn't even an actor, but he was in the Government of the Republic of France, or the French Republic the best culture minister ever. Afterwards, in the next government, which was formed in his third term, he was a minister of education, never a teacher, nor a teacher. The government will be made up of politicians, as long as there is a multi-party system in the world, as well as in Serbia. Never at the head of the ministry will and do not have to be men of the profession. They are here to follow the policy of the ruling majority, to implement the policy that is determined in the government, and of course, to get for every draft law the support of us MPs here in parliament, who are quite ordinary people, and who don't have to be understood at all in matter, but they need to recognize what voters who vote for us want to be done in this country and what not. It's a political task. The job of politicians is to invent, to sell fog to Serbian citizens, to conquer 4.99, I don't even know what, barely, a percentage to get into parliament somehow, which I don't underestimate, and that's big if it's ever been won. But what we all have to resist here, no matter what political option we belong to, is that political parties are abolished, because in the history of humanity it was also that some who will never come to us by the will of the citizens, I underline the will of the citizens, in the situation that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, submit to the amendments, don't talk about the amendments, attack the defence minister, name it today as an example, as a person who didn't serve the army, and listen, he dared to lead as Minister of the Army of Serbia. It's one nonses. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. There's no way the replica can be on this. (Balsa Bozovic: What? Did you serve the army? I didn't serve the army. I'm asking my colleagues to allow me to continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22472	I ask you not to throw away and that we can ensure that the MPs speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22473	I would pray that I can continue to talk about the amendment, why the SNS can never vote for the amendment when we hear an explanation that tries to disabling the political system and at all how there is a political system in the world, and not just in Serbia. What about countries, now it's almost most of the countries in Europe, where the defence ministers are women, members of different political options? The most common are social democratic options and some left-wing parties, which are defence ministers. In Spain, we had a case where a pregnant woman was given a term of office and became Minister of Defense. I think it belonged to Partido Popular, the European Party of the People, the party at the right center. So, what kind of explanation is it that the Secretary of Defense can't be someone who didn't serve the army? Absolute nonsens. I underline, when MPs appear here, that's their right. It is also the right of someone who understands politics to respond, to explain to Serbian citizens why we will not vote for it. I am convinced that some opposition parties also agree that we must not allow here to speak in some terrestrial language, which is far from the essence of political life and which falsely represents that the President of Parliament, and we have heard it in one of the arguments, should be an apolitical figure, the best administrator in the local community of the village of Crniqi, for example, not an MP who passed on the list of one of the parties and for whom the ruling majority decided to propose and choose, for example, or that the culture minister should be the best painter, or that the minister of agriculture should be neither I nor know what to think of and thus dissuade political life. I'm afraid these arguments only bring back the wheel of history, where there was a single-party system and where it was trying to explain to the people that it's best that there are no political parties and that it's best that ministers be people who have nothing to do with political life. It's best that the street comes, but I can tell the amendment that the streets won't be, that citizens will always decide in the elections who will lead what resolution in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22474	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, George Komlenski, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22475	Thank you. I really don't believe that president so-called. political groupings can't think of a small percentage or a bigger shit like this, and nebulosis can come up with it on its own. Since he obviously ran out of money or not enough of what he's taking from his councilmen in Chačka and elsewhere, he seems to have turned to the other side, to order from those who don't want to see Alexander Vulin and who don't want neutral Serbia insulting anything that comes to his mind and pounding nonsense like they're really not suitable for this home. For the sake of truth and public, although it is not worth repeating to him, Alexander Vulin did not serve the army for health reasons. He graduated from Law School, the State Law Faculty and completed the National Security Academy, the highest Serbian institution in the matter of national security. I know that those who wrote the text to a gentleman not a small percentage or a bigger shit would want Alexander Vulin to have completed a course in the U.S. law enforcement, or he might have been at the Marshall Security Center in Garmis-Partenkirhen as the owner of return pastures, but unlike those who passed those courses, which destroyed 500 tanks, 220 armored assets, 20,000 light weapons, 282 tank T-55, 200 armored transporters, hoods, 1,100 anti-aircraft cannons, 26 multi-pliers. This government and Alexander Vulin, as defence minister, are struggling to return Serbia's army to its rightful place. Let them minimize whatever they want, but the MiGs have arrived in Serbia, and S-300 will arrive, and second weapons will arrive. And the fact that those who pay a gentleman for no less than one percent or more shit, which his relatives in the village of Vranići do not vote for, I am very sorry, their wish will not be fulfilled. Serbia will be a stable military force in the future and will continue to advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22476	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22477	Who knows which way a speech that has absolutely nothing to do with the truth. The presidents of the DS, former military ministers, were mentioned not to serve the army. The two were ministers, former President Boris Tadic and current President Dragan Sutanovac. They were both in the army and one and the other, and you can check that out. But I'm surprised that in this building, it's so easy to say something as untrue, and it's so easily verifiable. Here, I'll tell you the same about myself. I served the army and ward in 1999 as a member of the DS and was in Kosovo and Metohija, unlike those who boasted of their contribution, of the heroism we hear about. It stands here today, as someone mentioned Ivo Andric, here stands the record, today is his birthday, October 9th was born Ivo Andric, 125 years ago. And each of us should ask himself: does this panel and this man who sat in these benches bind us, and are we worthy of such men who sat in these benches to speak in this way? And we are not bound by this building alone, and this state and the citizens of Serbia are only telling the truth. He was one of the MPs. He wasn't even the president of the assembly, he wasn't the vice president of the assembly, he was one of the MPs. And I think that and how it obliges us, not just us, and our children and citizens of Serbia. It is certain that we will never reach its reach, but at least we can try to speak the truth, respect each other, and respect this country by talking about such important things with dignity and willingness to look into the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22478	Thank you. Right on the line, Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22479	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, Ivo Andric was sitting here but we are not talking about Ivo Andric today, nor have I found out that Ivo Andric was an MP in this respected daily newspaper home, as some of these days have learned. But that's not the subject of replica. The theme of the replica is what I have even caused the replica, and I admire you and your understanding who should receive the replica, but I did not say anything ugly about Dragan Sutanovac. I greatly appreciate him and his actions speak of what kind of minister of defense he was. But I still say he didn't serve the army. The fact that he was in the army, my God, and on certain markings of various events, I was in the army too, so I didn't serve the army. But I can be a good minister. That's what I was talking about. Boris Tadic does not seem to have served the army and was also the defence minister. (Sendants of the DS get it. Don't yell, it's my right to say my opinion. But he was often in the army because he was the secretary of defense. Zoran Zivkovic, a member of the Democratic Party until recently, was not serving the military, but could have been the defence minister. I'm talking right into it, and the fact that someone has to jump whenever someone's name is mentioned, that's another problem. I'm saying that they could have been defence ministers and that the senseless explanation of the MPs who spoke here was supposed to be experts, not politicians. In addition, the Democratic Party's intention to make the next defence minister Gordana Comic, who did not serve the military, says, but is a minister in the shadow of the Democratic Party. Therefore, I am only saying that you do not have to carry a rifle to be a good minister in the government, not only Serbia, but everywhere in the world, but to be a good politician, who follows the policies of the Serbian government and the majority, which makes up the majority in one parliament. What someone doesn't understand now, I'm not guilty, but we certainly can't vote for pointless explanations of something. If someone made an effort to explain the true essence of the amendment, which knows what's written, we would vote. But I don't understand the Democratic Party why it jumps when I approve of everything they do, because it's politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22480	Thank you. National MPs Prof. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 16th amendment in the same text. National MP Marko Atlagic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22481	The Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly, since the former regime's party was due to pass this law 10 years ago and has not brought it in, by giving up the reasoning of this amendment, so that this law will see the light of day as soon as possible and in order to revive the National Academy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22482	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22483	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, this amendment and member speak of perfection. Ivo Andric was a fruitful writer, but I recommend to the Ministry that on these officials, it was a perfecting process that they went through, especially in local self-governments, the provinces, and the republics, they carefully observe how they were perfecting, because my experience says that they shared some titles themselves, did some competitions, did some counselling on which each other shared titles, so they became immeasurable and therefore it is necessary to see all these improvements during the takeover. And Andric was a fruitful writer, but failed to earn an 200-square apartment in downtown Belgrade within three months as the director of the former regime's post office. He was big, he did write big pieces, but he couldn't make it that fast either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22484	National MP Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs submitted to the 17th Amendment in the same text: together Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Ružica Nikolic and together Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22485	This article refers to the obligation to coordinate the systematization of these two, let's say, organs. But since we ask that this law not be practically passed, that it should be moved, because we really don't need such a law, then I must draw attention to you that a great risk is taken if you create a commitment by special law to the Republic of Serbia. Whether this law will revive, how it will live, it will create a relatively long commitment to the Republic of Serbia. Just so you know. And what you're about to do, it's hardly going to be unmounted, and it's going to be necessary to unmount. Why? Well, Mr. Ruzic, I'm probably expressing the views of all MPs in the National Assembly, can you deliver to us on one piece of paper, although it's hard to fit on one piece of paper, what kind of organization is the state administration? To say, the ministry, that the ministry has the authorities of the administration in its composition, so that you can name special organizations, so that you can list organizations with a legal personality without legal personality, and the authorities of the administration in the form of a legal person with no legal personality, and then public agencies, and public services. To give us all this tax, so that all MPs can see what this state structure is like. Let me relax you right now, here, I can't handle it for 20 days. From site to site, it's hidden somewhere, it's nowhere, there's somewhere in the law, there's nowhere in the law, it exists here, it's not here, it's here. Can you enrich us with this knowledge, on one 50 pages, to see how the state administration in the Republic of Serbia is organized? Everyone will be grateful and no one will object to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22486	Thank you. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 17th amendment in the same text. He's got a word for it, Professor. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22487	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, as some of the people's MPs of a minor political group of "the stone of the coon of the dwarves" in this high home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the National Assembly of Maja Gojkovic ripped out the microphone, giving up the explanation of the amendments and giving up time for their education, so that similar things would no longer happen in this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22488	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22489	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since it is the rules on harmonisation, on systematization, I also recommend that the National Academy and the Minister be very careful about these systematicisations and that rewards are valuable and working, and not those who have in different ways gained some of their titles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22490	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic. The word is Dejan Nikolic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22491	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is very short because it is a technical amendment. We're sharing a regulation on internal planning, the systematization of the National Academy instead of 60 days being done in the next 30 days. In fact, you have lawfully defined this business to be carried out by the Human Management Service until the adoption of the regulations. You yourself said that this service already has a wide range of work, that it has its hands full. It's a special subject to define and discuss how she does her job. This is not a topic, but because of the work taken, put them on another job to do – there is a reasonable doubt that this job will not be done well. My amendment says that in the next 30 days the National Academy will begin to work at full capacity and that these rules and sublaws will be adopted as soon as possible in the next 30 days in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22492	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. National MPs Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Maja Vidinović, Tomislav Žigmanov, Goran Jesic, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic together submitted the 17th amendment. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22493	In Article 17, paragraph 2 is amended and reads as follows: "The National Academy will adopt a regulation on the internal organisation and systematization of jobs within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. “ So, as you can see, we have suggested the shortfall of this deadline that you yourself have given yourself from 60 days. Double the time limit for the adoption of the systemisation rule. I think it's a simple reason, not just a demagogue. It is not demagogue because we want the National Academy to have its post in the upcoming, most important business for all local self-government, which is the process of making local budgets. I think you can accept that, because in 30 days, this kind of document can be made, that it has enough capacity in the public administration, in the state administration, and that the National Academy is helping many local self-governments, which are obviously in trouble all these years, and we are testifying through a report from the Fiscal Council. In a major problem, except in local self-government, we also mentioned the largest cities from Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis who have problems with their financial status, where the Fiscal Council concludes that some are on the verge of bankruptcy. So, you need to train the National Academy and help those cities, those mayors, those city councils, the municipal councils, to bring much better budgets than we've had so far. Because we have a large number of examples of cities that in the last five years fill their budgets with 50%, 60% or 70% of the planned amounts, and I don't think that's enough to function. There goes the warm season, there are great challenges for the functioning of all public utility systems, and that is why our suggestion is as soon as possible, as soon as possible to train the National Academy, because from today, from October 10th to November 10th, all these documents can be completed, to train the National Academy and to help in December, before December, in the process of adopting the budgets of the most important, largest local self-government, because there are indeed the biggest problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22494	Thank you, colleague Kiric. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22495	Thank you, Chairman. With this amendment, we ask that practical systematization, i.e. the Labour and Internal Systematization Regulation, be postponed at the National Public Administration Academy in relation to the proposed text. So, you propose and believe that systematization should be adopted within 60 days for the National Academy, and we also suggest that this should be done by 1 January 2018, taking into account the text of this amendment with our previous amendments, i.e. the beginning of the new calendar and budget year, since only then are the conditions for employee earnings being obtained and I will return to the budget. Technically, you provide for this member to adopt the systematization within 60 days, so that newly employed people at the National Academy begin to receive salaries based on new jobs in 60 days, and that only six months can they adopt the sublegal act on which they will work, and there is also a certain disagreement. Because what they're going to do, not just by law, but by sublegal acts, you've given the deadline to adopt in six months, or, as I said earlier, at the beginning of the second quarter of 2018. With this, we propose that you postpone everything nicely and make an example of it by 1 January 2018, until when you can prepare and when you have the Budget Law and when this separation with the SUK will be completed and that the conscience is peaceful, and we, as someone participating in this Parliament's work, start in 2018, not to touch the amount of earnings, by segregating from the current budget reserve, regardless of Article 61. Budgetary system law. So, the mass of profit in the budget is in a special regime and it must not be touched without budget rebalances, I repeat again. I urge you to adopt this amendment, to give good time until 1 January 2018 with a new budget, with sublegal acts and not only faster, better that in 60 days you already have salaries for new employees who you plan to insert in the National Academy, not to violate your own and our own laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22496	Thank you. Col. Pavlovic, you've come forward under this amendment? You're out of time. Your task force has wasted its time. The National MPs Dusan Pavlovic, together Nemanja Sarović, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stanković – Đuričić and together Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The word has a folk MP, Miroslava Stankovic – Đuričić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22497	I thank the chairman. The SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment proposing that Article 18 be deleted. Law on the National Academy of Public Administration. We recently talked about the draft law on the system of education as the most significant system of values, and here we are now talking about amendments to the law on professional training in public administration. This bill is by itself a system of replacing the thesis, because as a means it does not achieve the objective of reforming public administration and professionalising to a sufficient and necessary extent. In Article 18, you stated that the National Academy’s tasks will be carried out by the Staff Management Office. So, while the academy is not being stalked, a number of stalking officers will be stalking the legal innovations of this law, but also new under the terms of national words and expressions, such as couching and so forth. Consistently, there is nothing, Serbian and the elements of national culture. I'll remind you, Mr. Minister, Article 10. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that in the Republic of Serbia there is an official use of the Serbian language and a Cyrillic letter, and secondly, that the use of other languages and letters is regulated by law, based on the Constitution. Therefore, you have no excuse for using such terms, and there is no need, for there is certainly some appropriate term in our rich language. We're witnessing that public administration employs staff with various diplomas and various contracts and wherever they are deployed, they're not interested in work that they don't know how to do, but they're not interested in learning it either. So we have in the public administration those who can't be given an object to do it, because they know they'll never be done, but they're exactly like that, and they're fighting for the leading places in the hierarchy. That's why those who know the job and work and can't wait to leave the public administration. If someone thinks that through this academy they can educate or perfect those who don't work and don't know how to work, they're wrong. This proposal does not address fundamental deficiencies in the system of personnel working in the public administration. So, Ministers, public administration problems are an unfavourable burden on the state budget, malpractice in hiring unsuitable personnel, without profit in the quality of public administration services. The regulation in the systematization of jobs and jobs and the introduction of payment classes is the key to starting the problem of the public administration system, and education and professional training are primarily the responsibility of the individual. Therefore, Mr. Minister, adopt amendments to the SRS, or withdraw this law from the procedure, strengthen coordination, accountability of existing budget users and save both state money and time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22498	Thank you. Members of the 18th Amendment were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. The word has a folk MP, Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22499	The Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, since today, several times, a president of the minor political group has muddled the president of the state of Aleksandr Vukic and his brother, in protest, by giving up the reasoning of this amendment and by giving him time, rock, cabbage, dwarves, for education, in order to finally retrain and stand in line with civilized MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22500	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22501	Ladies and gentlemen, it's an internal order act. I suggest you pay particular attention to these systems by then. I know from my personal experience that there are a lot of party employees in the public administration, but the people of the former regime, who have made regulations that they are immeasurable and with this relationship, should pay attention to them, not because they undermine power, the government, but because by destroying power, the government, in a certain way, undermines the state and violates the confidence of citizens in public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22502	Thank you. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dejan Šulkic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 18th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22503	Dear Mr. Chairman, yes, this earlier member of the Bill on the National Academy of Public Administration speaks of the fact that until the adoption, as this member stands, the Act on the Internal Organisation, the Systematization of Jobs, the work of the National Academy will be carried out by the staff management service. We have again responded and inserted here, or added that, in addition to the need to adopt an act on internal organisation and systemization, this institution should also have a statute, and the statutes should be adopted. If we, i.e. you, establishing the National Academy as a legal person, an independent legal person, must have a legal person to have a founding act that defines the work, the authorities of the management, the bodies of the management, some other professional bodies, the mandate of those authorities, who choose them, how they choose them, who solve them, how they resolve them. All that has to do is stand in the founding act of one legal person. You here in the bill of law, in one member you mention the director as someone who runs the National Academy, and it's just said that the director chooses the program council, but we MPs here don't know, we pass this law, who chooses the director. If you wanted this body to be just a higher level of organization within your ministry, it could have remained within the human management service, not to be a special educational institution at all. Otherwise, you're just showing us that this, this institution can actually be just a place of political and financial influence by the government, by your ministry. If so, and more and more often come to us with such laws here, which primarily centralize areas of action, I'll just read you what in this law only the Government brings.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22504	Thank you. Time's up. On the 19th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mirčić and Filip Stojanović and together Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22505	It is the last member to regulate the entry into force of this bill. It's perfectly normal that if we've asked 18 members to delete, we're looking for this one. What the public probably doesn't have a chance to find out, and maybe he doesn't even know a proposing representative here. Mr. Ruzic, the previous minister ended up in the ministry for this and was then elected prime minister. Now, I draw your attention to this rule on criteria and conditions for accreditation of the realiser of the professional training programme, which was signed by the Minister on 18 May 2017. In Article 5(3), here's to remind you something that the previous minister wrote, that he has relevant evidence of methodological knowledge and skills, so open parentheses, confirmation of completed training for the coach. There's no couch, there's no cart, there's no uncles, there's nothing, there's no coach. So this former Cyrillic minister has mastered well, he knows the Serbian language well. However, I draw attention to the MPs, how unserious are those who propose. Here, you see in the explanation of this rulebook, there it is on the Ministry's site, everything stands a nice explanation and under Roman two says – reasons for the regulation. But it wasn't a regulation. It was a rule. The Minister can't make the regulation, he's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the What's next for us - this rule is passed because of a closer adjustment of the criteria, so they don't know what the regulation is, they don't know what the rule is, so I guess they don't even know what the bill is. What's the pearl of all this? In the end, it is being seduced under the number of the team and team, in Belgrade on 18 May 2017, Minister Ana Brnabic. Now, how do we treat you seriously? You swear on your uncles here, she wrote a coach. All sublaws, everything. All of this was installed there, all of the NGOs entered, even the hateful enemy "Crt", and "Crt" entered the staff training program of civil servants. They don't know what the regulation is, what the regulation is, and they're proposing a bill like this, and we're quoting in their explanations why this shouldn't be adopted and, of course, as a major flow of democracy, it's not a break of microphones, it's 126 votes. As Radovan Bozovic once said – when I see 70 hands in the air, the globe will no longer be a ball, but it will be flat, and this will become a law, and then the hook is how to apply it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22506	Thank you, colleague Krasic. The word is Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22507	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A esteemed colleague Krasic pointed to one insecureness, and I will point to another insecureness. In fact, Article 19 says – this law takes effect on the eighth day, and then we give here reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, says – it is proposed to pass laws by emergency procedure since its non-compliance with the emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for the work of the authorities and organisations in the public administration system. So, harmful consequences. Mr. Minister, you've celebrated 100 days of your leadership with the Ministry these days. Before you, the current prime minister was the minister of this portfolio. Please tell me, when did you realize it was urgent? 100 days ago, eight days ago, a year and a half ago when she was a minister? When did this begin to cause adverse consequences for the work of these organs? Well, then those of you who realized all this, you're proposing in the same law that sublegal act solution in six months, so you're trying to amend it to a shorter time interval than 60 days. I can only say one word - this is unserious. In order for this indifference, which could cause adverse consequences to be corrected, to make good listen to what the opposition proposes, withdraw this law, accept all these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22508	Members of the 19th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22509	Dear Vice President, since today, in several times, one president, a minor political group has muddled the president of the state of Alexander Vukic and his brother, in protesting that he is not present here and able to defend himself, I am giving up the reasoning of this amendment. I am giving my time to my co-worker, two men for education in order to finally re-evaluate and stand in line with the civilised MPs in this high house.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22510	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the end I want to say that, this law is not a sacred letter, we may be supplementing these other laws, but the goal is to regulate the state of Serbia and the state of Serbia must never again become acts of violence against citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22512	Thank you. The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The word is Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22513	Dear Members of Parliament, Your Honor, I'd just like to draw attention to something. This is a brand-new law, and unfortunately, since it's new, we don't have the time factor to judge it properly. That's why the responsibility is even bigger. Maybe we'll be changing it, maybe there'll be new amendments in a year's time as changes to the law do it. However, we should really consider this, that by passing this law we should not violate other laws. So, once again, it is not a waste, Minister Ruzic gave an answer about the budget, we are not satisfied with that answer, that the application of this law is not possible without breaking the Budget Law. It means that it is necessary or necessary to rebalance the budget before applying this law on the National Academy, i.e. amending and supplementing the Budget Law for 2017 or to wait with the application of this Law on the National Academy only after the adoption of the Budget Act for 2018. This year we had two new ministries. There was something else. So, the profit mass didn't change, it didn't need budget rebalance. However, for this brand-new National Academy, which, according to new systematization, will have new jobs, we absolutely consider it inadmissible to break the Budget Law by adopting this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22514	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on civil servants. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic and together by Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22515	In principle, we presented our position on amendments and additions to the Law on Civil Service Officers, and we argued that this law cannot be corrected by amendments, especially that you here have actually worked only to use this previous law on this academy among civil servants, i.e. in the Law on Civil Servants. You owe us for many years now a new law on civil servants, a law on paying classes, to finally introduce order in those services where civil servants are employed, starts with the republican authorities, to the authorities of local self-government. We've been listening here today all day, of course, mostly fully correct thesis about how civil servants piled up in state authorities, in local self-government, without any criteria. We Serbian radicals never had a problem with him being a member of a political party, so he can get a job as such. We don't think being a member of some party is something either ugly or contagious. On the contrary, we think that every political party wants to have as many members as possible, and different professional profiles, so of course such people can be able to get a job in the state administration and local self-government, but not just because they are members of a political party that is in power. This is the problem that everyone today has somehow presented in a hypocritical way, as if those who criticized a large number of civil servants, as if they never hired anyone and never would. It just needs to be honest and open. The bottom line is that it should be kept in mind that jobs are done by people who know how to do it, when it comes to state authorities, that people are professionals with a state exam, with a previously completed college or a suitable high school. The problem is hiring with at least oddly obtained diplomas. More and more, especially according to local self-government, people who boast without any problem that they are now a graduate, do not know exactly what, but based on this degree they are in some important jobs, important functions in local self-government. So that's what needs to be a bit of a match, to see really who needs to stay at work, who meets the conditions to stay at work, and on the other hand, I think even in your ministry, ministers, and in some others certainly, there is a need to hire a certain number of people, especially when it comes to inspections. You can't do your job if you don't have enough administrative inspectors, and you know exactly what conditions administrative inspectors need to meet. Then the problem is that you have a limiting factor in that law that prohibits it - employment, and on the other hand you've found more of those who hired them yellow when you were with them, and then those who hire them promoters when you're back with them, and then for those people who really should be working, to contribute and that the whole ministry works better, there's no room for them. That is why we think that the Law on Civil Servants needs to be adopted over and over again, that the law provides for all the opportunities that experience has taught us that we have met with them, and that we are right to say that you, ministers, have today proposed to us, that is, the ninth amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants. If this law was any good, we wouldn't have to change it for the ninth time. So withdraw this law and accept our amendments, or withdraw this law without it, make a good proposal for a law on civil servants, deliver it to the MPs, that as serious people who know this matter we are talking about and that we will pass a law that will be good to you when you are in power and that it will be good to you when you are in opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22516	Thank you. The word has Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22517	Thank you. We believe that this article should be deleted, i.e. that it has been given the wrong place, that this provision is completely unnecessary in these amendments to the law. In fact, this question has already been regulated by the Law on Employees in Autonomous Provinces and Units of Local Self-Government, exactly the same from A to S, and there is no need for this provision to be inserted now into the Law on Civil Servants by trying, of course, through this proposal to amend and supplement this law. We believe, therefore, that it should be deleted, regardless of which the minister is in his opening statement, and I am sure that this was the case, I said that what he proposes as a representative of the government are solutions to make the legal reading more appropriate. I remember the exact word – more appropriate. I just wanted to tell the minister as one educated and written man, a graduate politician, as far as I know, that the regulations are either customized or not. They can no longer be depicted or less depicted, so that they can be more or less depicted. The same as the laws when they are adopted, are either in accordance with the Constitution or not in accordance with the Constitution, or are in accordance with the Budgetary System Act or not. They can't be any more or less. So I would ask you once again to consider what you are entitled to, to consider this amendment, to throw out, or to delete this provision of a law that is completely unnecessary. I am further obliged to say that this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants is abundantly abundant, as they would say, by spilling unnecessary things. It is absolutely amazing that in the previous debate concerning the establishment of the National Public Administration Academy, which is established by this law, you do not have a series of provisions that should be contained in this law, and now you are putting them in this Law on civil servants that you are trying to change. You've made such a mix of provisions that it's really hard to manage. So, you have entered into this Law on Civil Service Officers who want to change everything about the National Academy of Public Administration, and you have not introduced that into the Law on the National Academy, and that is the first and basic misunderstanding with which we have remained, which is why we express our suspicion, of course, in the right and correct intentions when it comes to amending this law. So, you've mixed pots or made one mix of provisions that's simply wronged the address, instead of putting them in the code of origin, if I can call it the National Academy Act, you've broken it all down into this Civil Service Act and, of course, you're creating an additional confusion with the one who reads the laws, as simply a citizen, or a man of profession, and especially when it comes to people who need to be the ones who apply this law. So I say, once again, I urge you to consider this amendment and to pay attention to what the MPs suggest, so that you do not come back to the situation to show that you do not know or that you are not valid enough to write the law. Once again, we come to the point that the ministers, regardless of what the officials are, are not civil servants, that the ministers should appear in front of the citizens by their positive example, that the first to pass the training, both on the writing of the law, and of course the amendments to the law, and also on the knowledge of labour law, the Constitution and everything that makes up the matter of the state's professional examination. I also appeal to you, given that you are a member of the Government and that the programme on the national expert exam is regulated by the regulation, that you are self-initiative at one of the next government meetings of yourself, together with all your fellow ministers, that you are also required to be members of the state expert exam, so that this kind of thing does not happen, and not that we are accused of not knowing how to manage the legal reading and matter that comes before us, rather than that these criticisms go to the address of the legislator, which, in this case, is Ana Brnabic, who also lacks the knowledge to manage the government of this country, and of course all those who follow it, including you. Of course, this is the most well-intentioned criticism.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22518	Thank you. The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22519	I like to discuss the amendments, when the arguments go that way to disabling the prime minister with an explanation that he doesn't have enough capacity or that he doesn't have enough expertise to run the government. I think that is where the minister and others should react to explain to the honourable MP who says for himself: "my smallness", I don't know why he demeans himself, all MPs here are the same, that the government of the Republic of Serbia is led by Mrs Ana Brnabic, who has received confidence here by a large number of MPs who make up the ruling majority. I think there were 167 votes at the vote and that's what the prime minister recommends to lead the government. It is the task of NJen to propose on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia here the draft laws, such as the laws we are discussing these days both in principle and in the amendment and, of course, to implement a policy that represents the ruling majority in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, because parliament is something from which the Government of Serbia originates, and not only the Republic of Serbia, but governments spring from the power of the ruling majority in parliament. Ana Brnabic certainly has the confidence and expertise to run this government well, and she, soon, will be marked 100 days of the government, certainly doing well, because she has votes and Serbian citizens behind her. I sincerely hope that the election will be, so it will be in this country, so we will see how the citizens of Serbia, who are the only ones who own it, how they evaluate the quality and expertise of Ana Brnabic as prime minister, and we MPs who have chosen her here by voting when the Prime Minister and the composition of the government that she has proposed to us are satisfied with the first 100 days of government's work with its effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22520	Thank you. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22521	Thank you. So just for clarification, considering that Article 91. The law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government regulates the takeover of civil servants in the bodies of autonomous province, local self-government, urban municipalities, offices or organisations established by the competent authority of an autonomous province, units of local self-government and urban municipalities under a special regulation. For the taking over of servants indefinitely in those bodies into a state body, the Law on civil servants may only be regulated as a law governing the filling of jobs in public authorities. What's important is that we simply know that we had one, I'd say an unequal position and a situation where we could take over to local self-government units or in autonomous provinces employed by state authorities, and we couldn't go in the opposite direction. This was possible while there was a Law on Employees in State Authorities. After the adoption of the Law on civil servants, this was no longer possible. As for what the honourable MP Maja Gojkovic said, I can only say that I am absolutely joining this discussion, but I do not have the right as minister to give political evaluations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22522	Thank you, Minister. On what basis are you answering, colleague Tepic?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22523	I'm mentioned by my colleague Gojkovic... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22524	You have no right to a replica. Mrs Gojkovic absolutely did not express herself negatively about you or the MP group you belong to, nor did she misread and interpret your interpretation, so I do not have the basis to give you, with all my wish, the right to replication. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22525	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, civil servants should be everything they weren't until 2012. They must be frequently controlled, trained, valuable, characterized, and therefore should be amended because the rating of a state depends on civil servants. State officials are the windows facing citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also those who are not citizens of Serbia. That depends on the impression of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22526	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22527	Thank you. You violated Article 104 by denying me the right to replication and self-initiatively... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22528	My colleague Tepic, I have explained to you very closely why I have denied you this right. You're abusing the Rules of Procedure now, so we're going to go to the next amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Zdravko Stankovic and Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Balša Bozovic. Here you go, colleague Bozovic. You have the time of the parliamentary group. Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22529	I think this is the main amendment that makes us oppose both this amendment and the addition of this law. Far from being, we don't think the basic text of the law is good because, well, we're a little older, we know how this law was brought in and in the original text. It is the creation of Zoran Balinovac and Mladjan Dinkic, a whole set of those laws concerning state administrations and civil servants, including the tenants. I want, first of all, to distract the public. We have in the existing legal system a regulated situation when establishing a working relationship in the state administration someone who meets the requirements usually, in addition to the school's training, puts the condition of a state exam, a professional exam. He's going according to the program, and that's something that you've covered with this general program. Depending on where the civil servant works or where he should work, they prepare. So those officials who work in public services like doctors, nurses, etc., and then those who need to work at the Ministry of Transport, then the Ministry of Education, that I don't order, have some general and individual programs. They pass after a certain time that state exam. When they pass the state exam they have met all the conditions to work and to apply the General-Government Act independently and to act as officials of the Authority and beyond, they do not need anything. I haven't seen a document yet, I've read a lot of your documents, but I haven't been able to find it, have you defined yourself that the staff policy in the ministries and authorities of the state administration is being conducted in a similar way as it is being done with the judiciary, where most of the people coming from the judiciary, which means that they also go through proper traineeship training in court, so you later invented this academy, which is a guarantee that, in addition to all the regulations, as a minimum, they meet something that is the skills and skills that are necessary for independent work. If this is your commitment to the state administration, then you must have good staff plans to always predict a number of trainees who would be trained, have their mentor at the ministry, who would take care of their, say, professional training, in order to pass a state exam. That makes sense, and it should be supported. I am a great opponent of the fact that in responsible places where the Law on Administrative Procedure should be applied on its own, people who have not worked in the administration come, lawyers come, the secretary of agricultural cooperatives, or others. And also to draw your attention, that there are provisions that if someone is hired to pass a state exam within a certain period, which I accept, but all that you've done here now, a connection with that previous law, is in the function of mutilating our administration that should be personal to Brussels. Only the Brussels administration knows about these certificates, certificates, workshops, playrooms and other things. That's not where you get the knowledge. These are all instruments to achieve loyalty to something. Loyalty to him who finances, loyalty to him who gives a living, loyalty to this, loyalty to that. We in that small hall when we have public hearings or when we have a conversation with EU representatives, all EU protagonists from the NGO sector must come to register to justify the diaries. Do not caricate a serious system that must exist in the state administration with something that is allegedly an EU request, because then it can be funny. She saw a frog, where the horses were wetting, and she raised her leg to get a horseshoe. This way is expensive. This way of education cannot endure the economy of this country, and you are making something half of what is called “sinors” in Italy or not telling you what it is called in France. There's no way out of this. If you think this way you're going to provide experts for certain areas, you're not, you're just going to provide a bunch of paper and a bunch of stamps, that he was at the workshop, he was at the playground, he was at something. And what does he actually know? Then the question arises, and why will he need some knowledge when he can't apply it, because the assistant or secretary of state will tell him – write it like that, I don't care. Here's an example, at the Department of Traffic, people have been declared a technological surplus in jobs where there is a shortage. The administrative court has returned and the maltenes in explanation have written that a man must return to work. No way. And when it's the first change of some laws, I'm going to ask for an appeal court. Why? That the state administration doesn't obstruct the decisions of the administrative court, and this is the form of obstruction. Six times he's coming back. Why won't Her Majesty admit that a mistake has been made? Even from one man who has the largest schoolware in the ministry, you wrote, it doesn't meet the conditions of being an inspector, and he's a doctor of science for all of them. That's why we won't accept this wrong concept of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-09-0.u22530	Thank you, colleague Krasic. Dear People's MPs, we have finished our work for today and I would like to inform you that we will continue our work Thursday, 12 October at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
