ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a joint debate on four laws, and that, unfortunately, is something that has become a practice. All four laws are proposed by emergency procedure. An emergency procedure must be and should be an exception in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It is only possible when issues and relations are regulated due to circumstances that could not be predicted. That's the first condition. Then there are several alternative conditions, but that's an indication, that simply, we in the government don't have anyone who can predict, obviously longer than a week ahead. The contract most discussed here yesterday was certainly the Treaty on the Dreaming of the Transport Community. We've heard from the minister and representative of the ruling coalition a whole series of untruths concerning this contract and I'm going to try to talk about the essence here now. First of all, if we're talking about the Treaty on the Dreaming of the Transport Community, what kind of act is that in its essence? It is an international, interstate contract, one of Kosovo's signatories. So, if we're not lying about whether it's a formal confession, maybe formal recognition isn't, but it's an interstate contract that we sign with other parties to sign. That's what's completely clear. This is definitely another step towards rounding Kosovo's independence. It is, as you know, unconstitutional, against the law, and you will answer for it when you do. In an attempt to explain why it is important to sign such a contract, Minister Mihajlovic said it is necessary to overcome it, I will quote it -- non-physical barriers. You said, Mrs. Mihajlovic, that we have long goods at our borders and that we will now resolve the issue as Western Balkan countries. The problem is that among those countries, as you say in the Western Balkans, or countries, between them and Kosovo, not Kosovo and Metohija, there is no such thing as temporary institutions, but Kosovo. Kosovo, whose statehood you surround from day to day. Another question if you do not recognise Kosovo as an independent state - what limits are you talking about? Then are there limits between central Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija? There is no SRS for us, but you of the SNS have introduced the border and customs and the police. So, I think that's quite clear. You claimed this was status neutral. If status is neutral, then why does it bother Kosovo and Metohija to apply this contract as part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and to draw their rights from Serbia's signing as the country to which the contract belongs and they draw those rights? And not Kosovo must constantly be special, they sign for themselves, you give them prerogative states, that's the most important. Let you know whether it's neutral or not. What kind of authority do they get with this? What relationships are formed, these are all national prerogatives. This is not a prerogative of local self-government. It does not sign local self-government, does not sign the region of the Transition Community Treaty, it is the states, and you are doing everything possible to make Kosovo and Metohija a state as soon as possible. In article 2 on page 119 of the Assembly material, because you, unfortunately, Mrs. Mihajlovic tried to get out of an awkward situation yesterday by saying, "I don't know what it says in your material." No, we don't know what it says and we don't care. You have come to the National Assembly and the only valid material to be discussed and voted on is material with the MPs. If you have someone else, you had to take it. Article 1 c) says - none of the terms, words or definitions used in the contract, including annexes and protocols, constitute the recognition of Kosovo by the EU. This is where the EU is being built. Well, he goes on to say -- nor do they represent recognition by individual EU member states that sign this contract, which did not recognise Kosovo. Here, thanks to five countries that have not recognised Kosovo's independence, the EU is being fenced on this, but something like this does not exist on behalf of Serbia. Serbia did not fence from that. It just isn't, and that's what it says in the contract. Page 198 - by the end of the first transitional period, Kosovo will implement all maritime laws. They pass laws in the Assembly of the Republic of Kosovo and will continue to do so. The next item says: "Citizens of Kosovo and shipping companies founded in Kosovo... “ Is this status neutral? Doesn't that look like the prerogatives of the state government? Several times, Kosovo is mentioned on this side and they are given absolutely all the rights Serbia will have. I ask you, can there be citizens of Kosovo if there is no state of Kosovo? Is there a stateless citizenship? Is there a state without territory? I don't think there are any legal theories. I don't know which school you graduated from, I don't think you're a lawyer, and I know that you're a professor at this famous private university who's so popular that he had to change his name, so you don't want to connect him in public with graduates and doctors who, among other things, are part of the government that you're sitting in. It's such a level that they had to change their name to try to mask the tracks. Legally speaking, this is something that's completely clear. You then tried to make several false statements yesterday, not to try but to state them again, explaining this law and saying that the state GDP was as it was and that Serbia's public debt was never higher than in 2014, when Aleksandar Vukic took over the government and that he is now extremely reduced. That's just not true. First of all, SNS and Aleksandar Vucic took over in 2012. Now, at that point, Alexander Vukic was afraid of responsibility and thought that Ivica Dacic was a better quality solution for the Prime Minister, that's his problem, but in that government, right, Mr Socialists, the majority of the ministers from the SNS, as you had the parliamentary majority in the Assembly, but you didn't have enough quality frame, obviously, to take over some other intelligence. The truth is, here's official data from the Ministry of Finance, the Public Debt Administration, this is something that every citizen of Serbia can come to, and you don't have the only right to the truth, and this is proof that you brought up the truth yesterday in the Assembly, even in that part you talked about. Aleksandar Vukic took office as Prime Minister on 27 April 2014. Public debt was then 62.7% of the public debt in GDP. When did Serbia's public debt reach its highest percentage level? In December 2015, when it was 76% of GDP, after a year and a half of the term of office of the Government of Aleksandr Vukic. Today, when Vucic left, at least formally, so Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, in September 2017, public debt participation in GDP fell to 64.7% and these are also official data from the Ministry of Finance and Public Debt Administration, but today it is still more public debt than it was when Aleksandar Vukic took power. When the SNS took over in 2012, the public debt was 56.2%. Today, the public debt is 64.9% according to the latest data for October 2017. Serbia's public debt is 2,962 billion dinars and has grown enormously by about ten billion euros since you took over. These are data from the official state authorities of the Republic of Serbia and this is an indication that you are consciously and intentionally, because you are available these data, you deceive citizens of Serbia, trying to introduce yourself in a better light than you did yesterday, as you were talking about the former regime, and you say, nothing happened in 2012, 2013 and 2014. This came to us in 2015, and that former regime is you and that former regime are also your current coalition partners. Therefore, when you talk about the former regime, Mrs. Mihajlovic, you are like a co-worker and Labus and Mladjan Dinkic exactly the regime that has done Serbia the most evil. Let me also say a few words about this law confirming the water supply treaty. We have one debt of nearly 300m euros. We have a second mandate of 17m euros and practically every session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are in charge. You claim yesterday that unemployment fell from 27.6% to about 11%. Practically 16% of the unemployed are employed by you. You claim that there is no employment in public enterprises, that there is no employment in the state administration, does this mean that these people are employed in the private sector, in the economy? If we have 16%, not 0.6%, not 1.6%, of the new employees, so where's the sudden rise in GDP, and the employees have nowhere else to go but the economy? That shows this is a hoax. More communists who were the predecessor of your coalition partners said – statistics of our Dick, what you want that picture and so do you. No decline in unemployment is essential. You can take people off the bureau one way or another, but this is another hoax. If you have an increase in inflows in the budget, if Serbia is doing great, if factories are opening up, why are you in charge? Do it from the tide, do it from your own resources. Do it from what you've earned instead of borrowing the next generation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26422	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, yesterday and today we hear the most terrible accusations at the expense of Ms. Zorana Mihajlovic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Alexander Vukic about how allegedly we of the SNS recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, and here I am now because of the citizens of Serbia, not because of the MPs, because they have their own position that they do not want to step down for daily political reasons, to say that things are. So in the English version of this contract at the very beginning, what the colleagues in the SRS said was not true, the star stands. So, the first mention of Kosovo's word in the English version of this contract is the star, and at the end of the footnote page, which clearly states that under the term Kosovo does not prejudge Kosovo's status as an independent state, i.e. Kosovo is treated, which is very important for the Republic of Serbia, as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with Resolution 1244. In Article 3. The bill, which is an integral part of what we are going to vote on today, the Republic of Serbia has given the depositary of this treaty a declaration of the following content, which says that Kosovo and Metohija are part of the Republic of Serbia's territory and that, based on UN Security Council Resolution 1244, they are under international administration. Signing and expressing consent to the commitment of the Republic of Serbia to a contract establishing a transport community cannot be interpreted as recognising Kosovo's independence, then a star, and below that footnote to apply Resolution 1244. What's very important...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26424	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26425	Here, I'm done. An integral part of this treaty, which we are going to ratify and declare today, is a statement, which is very important, by the EU itself as one of the signatories of this treaty, that Kosovo and Metohija are not treated as an independent state. Don't make enemies out of our friends in the world. Five EU member states have not recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence and five EU member states, thanks to them, the EU has committed that Kosovo and Metohija, when it comes to the treaty, is not treated as independent.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26426	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's Rules of Procedure of Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26427	Mr. Arsic, today, like yesterday, you seem to have decided that you will not respect the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I don't know if you know it, but the time for replication is not unlimited. It's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for two minutes, two minutes. To the side which is controversial and right to the replica, but let's not argue about it. You have allowed almost three minutes for Aleksandar Martinovic as head of the SNS parliamentary group to abuse the right for which he reported to the Rules of Procedure. Everyone in the opposition, especially me, is interrupted immediately, so without warning, for two minutes and 00 seconds, you're shutting down my microphone. If you're going to be rigid, be Rigid to those in power, to those who earn now, because it's better to throw away than to answer the word, and say something smart. That's what they think. So, Mr. Arsic, yesterday you allowed Maja Gojkovic to speak for six minutes, although she had two at her disposal, today you allowed Aleksandar Martinovic to speak for three minutes, although available there are two. Article 104 is a member I'm talking about, so you don't say after you don't know what it's about, even though you should know as chairman, you decide on the right to use not on the basis of free will, you decide on the basis of facts. You are obliged to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but according to Article 104. – the replica cannot last longer than two minutes. He's two minutes away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26428	When it comes to the replicas, I have never seen whether it's the government or whether it's the opposition. Maybe it's funny to you, 'cause you guys seem to be doing politics because you think something's funny. I don't. And I've always let MPs, whether they support the government or not, say what they mean in the course of the replica. Nemanja Sarovic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. You have no right to a replica, and as usual, you don't always tell the truth. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. It can't be a breach of the Rules of Procedure... Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Well, you can't... The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26429	This, for the sake of truth, which is only one and is always one and there is no more truth and there is no personal opinion here or any other, but what it says in the contract on the Transport Community of Southeast European Countries, in all places where Kosovo is mentioned as a contracting party, the state, means, in preamble, at the beginning of the Kosovo Protocol, in Annex 5 and in the signatories there are stars and footnotes, as arranged by the Resolution. In Treaty himself, or in the contract itself, it does not have to stand on each side, since it already stands in the preamble itself. It is clear from everything, and the policy led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic of Serbia that we are neither, nor will we recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence at any time. We are not using the issue of Kosovo and Metohija's independence for daily or any political purposes, and this differs from the SNS, this government, the president of Serbia compared to many others, and also the parliamentary group that is trying to present this in this way. This contract is very important for both citizens and the economy. Serbia is on its way. What it was in Serbia's economy and economy four years ago, five years ago, is no longer so today. Today we are famous and recognized in the world. Today we can really stand with everyone, both the People's Republic of China and Russia and the EU and the United States and we are respected and represent a factor in the stability of the entire region. That's why this contract is important, because for businessmen, for investment, for new jobs, it's an important environment for both the government and the stability that the government is building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26430	Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26431	Mr. Arsic, I just checked in with the Rules of Procedure. You were obliged to give me your word right away. The Rules of Procedure say that the MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the National Assembly president and that he has the right to do so immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. You have injured, Mr. Arsic, the dignity of the National Assembly, insulted me in your explanation, and you have hurt the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. You have no right to take offense. If you tell someone that it's his custom to lie, that it's his custom to tell lies, it's an insult, Mr. Arsic. It may not be personal for you, but for the average, normal citizen of Serbia, it is. And you, when you apply the Rules of Procedure, you can't go from yourself. If it's not an insult to you personally, okay, you let others tell you that, but you can't treat other MPs that way, you just don't have the right. You can't say that either – there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure compared to me. Well, what are you? What are you? Are you infallible, are you a deity? Does that chair you're sitting on give you any special powers? No, it doesn't. And you're a man of flesh and blood, and you can hurt the Rules of Procedure and insult me, you hurt him. You made a mistake. And instead of admitting it, you're going further into error. So admit it once when you're wrong. Next thing. I'm also looking for a replica of Mrs. Mihajlovic's statement, because she also said, for the sake of my presentation, that I was telling the truth and that what I said was not true. And that's an example of what a replica is, and you just said that you never look at time and that you give all MPs the right to say what they have through the replica. Here's your chance, Mr. Arsic, to show it in action.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26432	Here, the truth is, colleague Sarovic, the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure is two minutes, and you've been talking for two minutes and 15 seconds and I haven't warned you. Nemanja Sarovic: Eleven seconds. Here, let it be 11, but I didn't warn you. You can't tell me and accuse me of something I don't do and forbid me to say it's not true. So you're not exactly sinless either. Maybe I'll make a mistake sometime, but what's the difference between you and me... Nemanja Sarovic: E, it's huge. It is, it's huge, you're right. And if I make a mistake, I'm deeply convinced that I'm right, unlike you. (Nemnja Sarovic: Replica Minister Mihajlovic) You have no right to a replica. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26433	Dear President, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, I would like to be a folk MP and a man who comes from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, which is the municipality of Svrljig, located next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis, and I have been elected a USS MP, from the list of SNS, with the bearer of the list of our President Alexander Vukic. As before, I have always, as a People's MP, supported all these bill proposals. I know and I see, it is seen in my municipality and in southeastern Serbia that very, very much work is done on infrastructure, on the employment of people, on cooperatives, on everything that hasn't been done by 2012. I will today support all of these bill proposals where you are given the opportunity to get funds with a loan, with high-quality interest, and thus will continue to work on the infrastructure in Serbia, the railways, roads and all that is worth and what is needed. I know that part of the 35km track will be done normally with the support of this loan, and I know that it will give support to our Serbia and our economy going much faster and much better in the coming period, and that is why I will support this bill. On the other hand, the proposal and the help to get water supplies for medium size municipalities, cities, that's very important to us, because I know that the big problem is the bad sewerage network, the bad water supply network, and what's the worst of asbestos pipes. So I will support this proposal with all my heart, to ensure that these funds are provided and to help people who need it. As I said earlier, I come from Srljig, which is for me and certainly for a large number of people, one of the most beautiful municipalities in Serbia and next year will be working on solving the problem of water supply, solving asbestos pipes and changing asbestos pipes, because we will do so together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the Investment Office, because we will also provide support here with funds that will be provided for the construction of all parts of our country of Serbia, and this way, through this programme, will provide funds for a municipality such as my municipality, such as Književac, such as Soko Banja, Bela Palanka, the municipalities in eastern and southeast Serbia. In all these municipalities, it's done. The funds that are now being taken here are given the opportunity to take favourable interest. These funds will be invested and invested through the programme of the Office of Director Marko Blagojevic. It was done with us a complete reconstruction of the school. More than 600,000 euros have been made, and it is agreed that we will now continue to build both sports halls and physical halls, which began in the 1990s and some years. We're gonna get the sports hall out of these funds now. That is why I also support you, I also support our government and I support our President of Serbia, because it is seen from everything added to work in Serbia, to build and invest. I'm talking about southeast Serbia here, because there's really very, very much more work going on than it was until 2012. We all live here in Serbia and see a lot of things going better. That's why all these loans, these loans that are being taken, is that it's borrowing tomorrow, certain funds, for our descendants, but these are the mandatory things that we have to do, because in order to leave something for those kids, we have to build it. We have a large number of loans that have been made and I have talked about how it was done without purpose, how it was done badly, how something has been taken, and nothing has been done, but someone has benefited from it, some previous, previous, which has been in places such as you today, such as President Vukic and such as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Mrs Ana Brnabic. I think all of these proposals, which you have now proposed, we all need to support, because this is the only way to do it and help our country, to provide for our children a better future, because investing in infrastructure, investing in school reconstructions, building hospitals, clinical centres, that's all we need. I've been talking these days. The road to the Old Mountain is over. It is expected to continue the path, from such funds, from Piroth to Bela Palanka towards the Old Mountain, where we will have a chance to develop tourism, to develop agriculture, because with good roads there will also come a large number of people. We have the opportunity to provide funds in such a way to rebuild, strengthen the capacity of the airport, because we are witnessing that the airport is one of the best airports in Serbia, where a large number of people from around the world are coming. Once again, I will support you with all my heart, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, and I will support this set of laws and, as an MP, I will vote for all of this, because I know this is an investment in the future for our Serbia and for our children. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26434	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26435	Dear MP, thank you for talking about those roads that are not only the main roads and corridors, which are not only highways, because it is important that citizens of Serbia, and I believe that in fact citizens and citizens of Serbia see a lot of work in Serbia, invests in regional roads, local roads, rural roads. Last year, in 2017, it was only invested in maintaining the regional roads of seven billion dinars. We are further in charge of international financial institutions and rehabilitating thousands of kilometers of roads. I don't think it's ever enough to build a sufficient number of miles of roads, but it's equally important to pores of highways to have all other roads. When you mentioned communal infrastructure, it is also through the Public Investment Office, but it is also through projects like this, that is, contracts that we are discussing today. Let's just say we have arsenic presence in kickinda, and that's why we're doing this. We have a water shortage in Paracina. We have inadequate water in Vorbas. In Književec we have great losses, 70% are losses in the Book, in their water supply. We need to preserve that and really have quality communal infrastructure so that people can live normally, like the whole normal world. Thank you for bringing this up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26436	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. He's not here. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26437	Mr. Arsic, how much time is left?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26438	Thirteen minutes and 18 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26439	Thank you very much. What is being thought about in this proposed agenda, especially when it comes to emergency procedures, is the point that this point deserves to be discussed this urgently at an emergency session. Since there are four points of the agenda, everyone would think that it is most urgent to discuss credit lines if the date is available, if it is credit realisation or any reason to realise this credit or condition for the change of credit conditions. I've been thinking about whether this loan might be about the reconstruction of the water network in local self-government. It's impossible to be so urgent for reasons that, far from not having to be reconstructed, especially in those municipalities, but somehow the minister says it would be released from arsenic. It is released from arsenic by doing so at the water source in the water factory, not through the water network, but given that these are outdated systems, a network of outdated, asbestos tubes, in any case it is justified to do so in these municipalities, especially in two municipalities in the AP Vojvodina area, including Kikinda and Vrbas. By the way, the quality of the water here is catastrophic, although it wouldn't be bad for you to think as soon as possible about releasing this water factory to Zrenjanin where it's even more catastrophic. Somehow, the logic of things says that it is impossible to expect that it is domestically thought of by the promoter, by a person who is unfavorable, using a card from the Serbian government, buying his underwear, buying himself jewelry. It's impossible to have such a domestic relationship with these loans. What are you gonna do? That's my personal impression. I was thinking that maybe this "Expor-import" bank, the Chinese, changed some conditions, that not some additional conditions and I see in the material that they are not, is moving with the project of modernising the Belgrade Centre-Pazova railway. It is out of logic that the person who is at the head of the ministry behind this proposal, who made an interstate incident a few days ago by going to the construction site during a big holiday, a big celebration, and accusing China as a performer, or a Chinese side, of not fulfilling its contractual obligations. It automatically ruled out any possible justification, the urgency of considering these points. There is one point here which in any case involves certain changes, which is the point where some regular numbers are 82,000, or already as Mr Arsic reads, where this change implies that the European Investment Bank is an absolute master when it comes to public procurement. The European Investment Bank lends credit, provides assistance, even with Corridor 10 and everything, but under its control absolutely holds public procurement and excludes the possibility of complaints about public procurement and that is something that was known earlier. We Serbian radicals indicated the disadvantage of these loans, however, what should we do? This loan is also unfavourable for the reconstruction of local self-government. There is a borrower of the Republic of Serbia, and local self-government gets 70% back, and 30% as a donation from the Republic of Serbia, but the Republic of Serbia returns a full debt to the lender and that is a fact, it writes in the material. What you think is that 70% will come back from local self-government -- look at your financial situation, specifically in these municipalities of Književec, Paracin, Kikinda and Vrbas. Catastrophic as in most local self-government. You literally led to the collapse of local self-government budgets. It's directly your influence by the central government. What's very interesting and interesting here is this first point, which is the establishment of a transport community. You know, there's this story about frog swallowing. When you need to swallow a frog, some who were morally seeking in churches said it was best to swallow the biggest frog. But here we are right now in a situation of completely different opposite thesis -- slowly start swallowing frogs by planting the smallest frog, so you can easily swallow it. The smallest frog after such a shocking decision and the UN tribunal's verdict, when the nation literally found itself in shock, is to move with a slight crawling recognition of Kosovo. How do you do that? It is done by imposing a contract, some agreement, which will not firstly highlight Kosovo as an independent independent state. It is EU-by-EU, most EU countries, but how will it make Serbia? The simplest way to explain to Serbia is that in a footnote, in one star or, as Ivica Dacic said, a snowflake, there will be an explanation that this is not in fact the forcing of Serbia, and it is the habitation of Serbia and Serbia's citizens to accept not only the terminology Kosovo, but the full recognition of Kosovo as an independent state. This reminds me of 2004, when the famous Paddy Estaun forced the Republika Srpska government to discuss the genocide that took place in Srebrenica for the first time in Republika Srpska's parliament. At the time, this was explained by the only way to include Republika Srpska in the family of EU countries. Even Paddy Estaun said there was no luck and hope in the dark. At the time, President Cavic, Dragan Cavic, I think he's also called today, explained to the citizens of Republika Srpska that it is very important and important to discuss it, and it will not have any weight because they all know the truth about Srebrenica and you saw that frog turn into something that got in the throat of all of us in Serbia. This is not done to make the next day KiM a priority in recognising Serbia under EU pressure, but to prepare the public over time, to say it is no longer worth it, you see that it is a great force, you see that it is a great pressure. Americans go by the logic of things. They have recognised Kosovo. He'll make Serbia confess as well. Not all citizens of Serbia, though. Serbian radicals will never force us to do so, but they have their own people in the Serbian government. They're willing to do anything to satisfy the interest of the Americans. Why? So because they finance them, because they bring them. Why did I say I didn't remember Republika Srpska? Because the person who explains this proposal has roots in Republika Srpska, the same government of Republika Srpska. When he saw Milorad Dodik with whom he was dealing, he immediately asked to be freed. She came to see Miroljub Labus. Imported Syrian oil. But what difference does it make? Everyone will say – what does this have to do with Kosovo? There is, because every detail is important, very, very important. Everything is done with the intention of bringing Serbia before the final act. You explain to us here that this has nothing to do with the independence of KIM, and here there's the board of directors, there's a council of ministers. This implies that each country, each member, gives its president on the council of ministers. What is the counter-argument on your question – is this in some way the recognition of KIM? You say -- Serbia has recognition by the organisation's headquarters will be in Belgrade. Perhaps I would have believed you personally, perhaps we Serbian radicals would have engaged in a serious debate with you at some point, but when we saw that this DOS scum was behind this idea, we were clear that this was no good for Serbia. This is not good at all. That you are the best intentions, as soon as they support, that means that it is not good for Serbia. Why? Because Americans make you do both. It's the same boss, same employer, same target. You can interpret this as a harsh discussion and assault on a person. It has nothing to do with a person, except in the area where the resolution minister has since the first appointment in the Serbian government has shown his intentions clearly. Her intentions were to do everything the American ambassador ordered to do. What Wolfie says doesn't give a shit about Wolfie. She doesn't care about the Prime Minister. She doesn't care about the president of the state. In any case, it uses these flossules to emphasize how loyal it is to Alexander Vukic, how loyal it is to the Serbian government. You cannot seek a faithful servant who served more masters. From Miroljub Labus, Mladjan Dinkic to Alexander Vukic. No matter what we think of your policy, we need to confirm that there is a big difference. The Americans can't just break Alexander Vukic so that he admits to KIM overnight, at least we Serbian radicals think to the day of today, but they can contribute through these co-workers to the introduction of the public of Serbia through such proposals, especially by an urgent procedure, and in the end, Serbia's parliament is slowly beginning to use Kosovo's termology to accept it. What is very important to note, when discussing this most important issue, the most important point of the agenda, of political importance, must be said that we have no problems with neighbouring countries. It is strategic for us to help, to develop infrastructure towards brother Montenegro. Montenegro is Serbian no matter what anyone thinks or says. It'll be a while. We don't have a problem with Macedonia either. We have problems when there's a change in government, when the government is a listener to American politics. What are the needs for us to co-operate with Albania so much? We don't have that big a trade. It is not Serbia's interest, except for good political relations, but good political relations do not mean that through this type of co-operation we in some way recognise Kosovo. We have good co-operation with BiH, which is our Republika Srpska. You say - everything will be done on the bridge that connects Ljubova and Bratunac, "Bratoljub", as you called it, is quite interesting that name. You don't even have access route yet, you don't have access to that bridge yet. Why? Because you've been working, because it's your style of work, and you've even dragged Alexander Vukic into it, they don't allow those from BiH. How can you talk about railways and base on something related to road traffic? We don't have any problems with Republika Srpska, we don't have any. We have special relations with Republika Srpska, which is something that is evident. When it comes to public debt, or GDP, here and how you manipulate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26440	You're bringing the end of my colleague Mircic. Thank you. Radoslav Milojičić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26441	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I'm advertising Article 107. (Alexander Martinovic: How can he now enter the O.R. and lift the Rules of Procedure? I don't understand nervousness in the ranks of the progressives. I've been given my word, thank you for that, and I'm advertising Article 107 where the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and I'm advocating Article 108 to be in line at the session of the old chairman, in this situation you. Mr. Arsic, unlike the President of the National Assembly and some vice presidents, we think you are more correct, you are more correct in holding a session. But I think you've gone too far this time and you've had to point out with a full understanding of your relationship with radicals, for over 20 years, I've respected it, but you shouldn't have let a previous speaker tell anyone that I'm dumping her, especially for those people he said and used some worse insults and worse expressions. So I ask you next time to interrupt the speaker and take away the time he spoke of, from his group, if there is time or you give him a warning. If we all share the epithets here, we don't know what this session will look like. So I'm asking you to listen to what the speakers are saying about this microphone, because if someone did it from DS, they'd get a warning, maybe it's off. It's really not appropriate for us to call someone here a scum. I understand that you have favored relations with radicals, you've been in the same party for 20 years, we've been fighting this ideology for 27 years and we're going to fight this ideology still, but I really ask you to hold a session in a way that is appropriate to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26442	My colleague, first of all, I must tell you that I treat all MPs the same way. It doesn't matter, because here we've had problems with our colleague Sarovic a little bit, so I don't have any special affinities. It is that my colleague Mircic said one sentence, but something that doesn't exist. (Zoran Krasic: How does it not exist? Well, there isn't. Find me a DOS MP's group in the Rules of Procedure, and here, I accept that I am guilty. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26443	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I first applied for a replica of my colleague Mircic's presentation, but I have to respond to the Rules of Procedure for Mr Milojic's presentation, which he said for 20 years he was fighting some dark ideology. I'll say something that's not new, it's already out in public and the citizens of Serbia know about this, but here, Mr. Milojic, that you know and I remind you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26444	Just no personal address, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26445	Yes, here, Mr. Veroljub Arsic, to pass on to Mr. Milojic, who has been fighting against the dark ideology of war for 20 years. So then DS President Zoran Djindjic sent a letter to Vidovdan in 1994, says General Ratko Mladic, Chief of Staff of the Republika Srpska Army, "Dear Mr. General, on behalf of all members of the DS, and on my personal behalf, to all soldiers, officers, officers and to you personally congratulate the Day of the Republika Srpska Army. The Republika Srpska Army, created in the war for freedom, is an example of how one small, but the people's army can successfully preserve the state and protect the people, regardless of the peace talks, whose success we all want, we need a strong army, in order for the other side to give up its intention to continue the war. I hope that the Serbian people, as well as the Republika Srpska Army, will welcome the next Vidovdan in peace. With respect, Dr. Zoran Djindjic. Now explain to me Mr. Milojic, and here is a statement from two days ago, and the same DS, says – the verdict to Ratko Mladic is a long awaited satisfaction of justice and a prerequisite for reconciliation. Serbia and the entire region are still facing and living consequences of the 1990s war crimes, and Mladic's verdict is important because it takes care of Serbia and its citizens. My question for the DS, you who lecture constantly on how you always had one ideology, one idea – are you behind the words said by Zoran Djindjic in 1994, when there was a war for the freedom of the Serb people in BiH or behind this shameful statement two days ago, when you say, as well as The Hague tribunal that Ratko Mladic is a war criminal?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26446	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26447	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. This was a replica of Martinovic, but I have no problem with it, I hope you will be parliamentary and that you will allow me to respond in the same way. For 27 years, the DS has advocated respect for the rights, the rule of law, for peace both in the world and in the region. We did not cause wars, as Mr. Martinovic's party did. Because of us, people did not lose their lives, as Mr. Martinovic's party did, along with the SPS and the only thing Mr. Martinovic said in life, and that is true that SNS is a mob and traitor organisation. I totally trust him to say this with complete conviction. He could've asked Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, who was then vice president of the DS, saw him sitting here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26448	Right on the line. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26449	Here, now Mr. Milojic has completely dragged me from this replica to Mr. Mircic's exposure, but there will be a chance for me to respond to some of his findings. Mr. Milojic, because of you and your party, people lost their heads, not in Republika Srpska, here in Belgrade. Here in Belgrade, he was killed at the time of your authority, Momir Gavrilovic. Here, at the time of your authority, a police general, Bhuha, was killed. Here at the time of your authority, a high-ranking official of the MuP Batchanin was killed. At the time of your government, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Zoran Djindjic, was killed. The one who congratulated Republika Srpska's Army Day in 1994. Have you met Mr. Milojčić? Here, help him, Mr. Mircic, you have a longer memory. Milorad Mircic: Mauser! ) Did you have paramilitary formations in BiH run by Ljubisa Savic, a.k.a. Mauser? Who directly took the bills to the DS headquarters in Belgrade. Do you remember Mr. Milojits, I don't think you remember, but I remember so-called. The 1992 Sokoban Declarations, when you said, not you personally, had no idea what it was about at the time, but the DS said the aim of the DS was to unite all Serbian countries Republika Srpska Krajina, Republika Srpska, Serbia and be an alliance of Serbian states. It was an official policy of the DS in 1992, and a year later, the then president of the DS went to Pale and together with Radovan Karadzic and General Mladic waited together, Zoran Djindjic, Ratko Mladic, Radovan Karadzic, Biljana Plasic, Momcilo Krajisnik at the Palace, NATO pact planes, as NATO's pact announced in 1993 to strike the position of Republika Srpska's Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26450	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26451	Here, I'm finishing up, Mr. Arsic. ... two days ago, a shameful statement from the DS that says, we're taking it off the face of the Serb people because war criminal Ratko Mladic is convicted. Shame on you, all of you together.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26452	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26453	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, Article 103. Of course, Mr. Mircic, I am a witness and at that time, the dignity of the National Assembly has been injured, the violation of the Rules of Procedure has been misused. As someone who was politically active during that period, I certainly remember Mauser, I also remember coalition governments in which the party of the former regime had two representatives, Mr Perisic, Mr Grubač, etc. The government was the government of Slobodan Milosevic. These were the infamous 90s, and in the Republic government they had Mr. Radulovic – C market. As someone who was in Jahorina, in my time, I never talked about it, there I met the entire leadership of the former regime party, the party that was worth something. The idea of the party's president, where there are no founders here, even Dragoljub Micunovic is not the founder, he was leaving the party, they have none from the 1990s. As a co-worker of the DS, I can confirm that the entire leadership was in Jahorina in Pala, and certainly Micovic, who is in the Veteran Administration, can testify, that they were, that Mr Perisic was also in favour of Republika Srpska, that they were happy to meet. That policy led by the DS, the DS then, I welcome. Today, I have nothing against DS, I have against what she's become and the DS remains just a name. She's still called that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26454	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26455	I thank the chairman. I'm advertising Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, and in any case, it is also a violation of the Parliament's dignity, as well as a violation of the reputation and credibility of a large number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially those who pleaded yesterday that there is a responsibility for the spoken word. I'll remind you here, dear colleagues, that yesterday we heard that the responsibility for the spoken word implies that something can be controlled until it's spoken, when the excuses are lost control. Is the one who said something that is unfeeling, that of the people who sit here, who are members of the SPS, are responsible for someone's death, for someone's death, for the loss of life. Is it a responsibility, for a spoken word, for the one who did it in the first place? Mr. Arsic, as chairman, you were obliged to prevent this kind of insult, because such an insult these people do not deserve. One party that lasts as long as it lasts, such as the SPS, in no way can answer for anything. If there's one or another responsibility, it can be individual, and we can talk about it. When we talk about individual responsibility, then we need to talk about responsibility from 2000, so until 2012, who, for what and how should be held accountable criminally and legally above all. So I ask you to sanction in the future, at least by warning, all those who in this way insult us MPs and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not asking you to vote for this injury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26456	If you're not looking, I don't have to answer. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Witch of Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26457	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm reporting from Article 32. Mr Arsic, it's really good that at this point you're a little more flexible with the application of the Rules of Procedure, because if there's a target that needs to be spoken the way that part of the MPs speak today, then it's the National Assembly. We must indeed stamp out all those who came out yesterday with statements, where they supported the shameful anti-Serbian verdict given in The Hague tribunal, Serbian General Ratko Mladic. It is a shame that there are political parties and their representatives who share that opinion. I am convinced that the people in the next elections will punish them and that they will never be in the National Assembly again, because there are not so many people in Serbia who think that the Hague verdict is a Serb general, something that is good. On the contrary, it is clear that the whole of Serbia has been arousing, that the whole of Serbia thinks this is a shameful verdict and that it is finally clear to everyone that this miracle in the tribunal is actually an anti-Serbian formation formed only to be tried there by Serbs. This debate today is in favour of the position of the SRS, that the state must most urgently form a scientific institute where scientists, patriots, would deal with the analysis of the UN tribunal's verdicts, because it is very important that at least we in our country do this analysis and remain for history, in order to undo such scientific works this formal decision of the UN tribunal, not only to General Mladic, but to all other innocent Serbs. It is good that our President Vojislav Seselj is working on it, she has already published eight scientific papers which analyzed the UN tribunal's verdicts, but only one man can't do it. That is why you should appeal all MPs to the government to establish an institute like this and to stamp all political parties together, headed by the DS and their shameful yesterday's statement, which is solid with the anti-Serbian The Hague tribunal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26458	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26459	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I'm glad the previous speaker said you were a little more flexible, since these are extremely important topics. These are extremely important topics and we can talk about everything here, but we need to be aware of the facts of what's true. The truth is, because of the red-and-black coalition of the '90s, people were out of work, that we were imposed sanctions, that wars were going on, that they were pulling guns on students. The truth is, we were cut off from the world. The truth is, the state was a state of smuggling. The truth is, we are. then the red-and-black coalition left the citizens with 11 pensions, 14 salaries. The truth is Dafina and the Jew. This is the truth that Alexander Martinovic, who, behold, changed his name today, is proud of, but he and his party are the same, the rest are those parties who admire war criminals. The Democratic Party condemns all people who committed crimes, regardless of their religious, political and national commitment. The Democratic Party also advocated peace in the region in the '90s, that conflicts should be resolved at the green table, and others with automatic rifles and guns, such as the SPS and now the SNS, and then radicals went and fueled those conflicts. That's why we were cut off from all over the world. That's why they bombed Serbia for a reason or not. You've led people to wage war between the SPS and the SRS, today's SNS. It's the fact that young people ran off with their heads no matter what they've done in this country, that they bombed our country, that's the facts, and you can't get away from it. As people lost their lives, your leaders took apartments on the back of the people, they're facts.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26460	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26461	Article 27, Mr. Arsic. Speaking of apartments, no one has more apartments than Dragan Sutanovac, president of the Democratic Party. And you're the last one to talk about anyone's apartments. As for that famous gun move on the students, that was, that's a fact and everybody knows it. But that's when no one died. People started to die on the streets of Belgrade when you took over. So after 2000, police generals, police officials began to die, and so you ensured the safety of Serbian citizens that in 2003 you died, in your eyes, and the Prime Minister, unfortunately, of all Serbian citizens. As for those 90s, Marijan Risticevic already told you – the Democratic Party had ministers in federal governments, in the republican governments, until 2000. And you supported the policy that was conducted during the '90s. As far as smuggling is concerned, as far as the crime scene is concerned, here, you mentioned Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, I think he understands himself best. All about smuggling during the 1990s, during sanctions, during the embargo, he'll explain it to you in detail. As far as automatic rifles are concerned, the Democratic Party, with its SS decrees, has been breaking into the National Assembly here, breaking into the National Bank of Serbia, breaking into the Federal Customs Administration. And by the way, let me ask you, both you and Sutanovec and everyone else - where are over 60 art paintings from the National Assembly that you stole, took to your houses or sold to your houses on October 5, 2000? So where are the artistic paintings that have graced this home for decades, which magically disappeared on October 5, 2000? That's what you from the Democratic Party did. But that time of automatic rifles, the theft of art paintings has passed. Remember that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26462	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26463	The Serbian Radical Party is proud of the participation of our volunteers in the last country wars and even Kenin The Hague tribunal failed to prove any single guilt, any single Serb Radical Party volunteer involved in any war crimes. As for carrying a gun, you know, in Serbs, men always carry guns, and men like Zoran Djindjic were called to bomb Serbia, to call on Western forces, their friends to bomb Serbia. And you, his followers, killed him. That is why you do not want to investigate the murder of Zoran Djindjic, to examine the political background, because you are involved, who are allegedly his successors. As far as crime is concerned, is there more crime on the globe than what's been going on since 2000, than criminal privatisations? Just watch where the hotels, supermarkets, megamarkets, etc., at the locations where you left thousands of people out of work. You left 5,000 Dragon people out of work, so your minister could buy the Dragon and today sell it for those huge megamarkets. You think because the current government won't make your officials feel guilty, that it'll get old for you? No, he won't. There will be someone who will certainly take all of you to the indictee's bench, all of you who participated in criminal privatisations, in the greatest affairs of the 21st century, not only in Serbia but in all of Europe, for sure. There are no bigger thieves and bigger criminals than those who were and are your officials. And it's a public secret. Even those who came to the current government were part of it. They may not be after these others, but you'll be in line, everyone, be safe...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26464	You're bringing the end, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26465	Such crime is the most hostile act towards the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia -- what you gentlemen have been doing since 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26466	The first was reported by counterpart Mircic, but Sarovic insists on speaking before you. Do you agree? All right. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26467	I call for the violation of Article 103, or 107, which says that we must treat one another with respect. We are all witnesses that the great burden of shame and shame are borne by all those who were instigating, rattling and sending people to the naked island. Their descendants, now it's the third generation, have this great burden. And we are witnesses that in this House no respect, let alone a little shame and shame do not show followers of that policy that Vojislav Seselj directly delivered to The Hague, kidnapped Slobodan Milosevic and delivered to The Hague. What is the difference between Jova Kapicic, who sent innocent people to Goli Island to court Josip Broz and Zoran Djindjic, who kidnapped Slobodan Milosevic, delivered Vojislav Seselj and many Serbian heads to The Hague? What's the difference between The Hague and the Google Island? No difference. And instead of a little shame, at least a little shame, they began to be proud of a fact that does not serve anyone in Serbia, let alone people who need to be seriously involved in politics. It wasn't enough for Zoran Djindjic to send Vojislav Seselj and ask Carla Del Ponte never to return him, but to find, to seek false witnesses, to recruit Jova Glamocan, Ac Stefanovic, to falsely testify against Vojislav Seselj. That crime is never forgotten. You know, there's something left to be recorded, something a man should be proud of, like Vojislav Seselj, and something to be ashamed of, if not alive, then his followers, such as Zoran Djindjic, are a political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26468	The word is Nemanja Sarovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26469	Mr. Milojicic, the discussion you've been having for a little while is not something that's rare. It's something you...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26470	Please, just without a personal address.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26471	... which you, the representatives of your policy, often say when you are in a stalemate. And that is because you are politically sterile, that you are unable to bring anything good to the citizens of Serbia. And when you have nothing else to say, when you have nothing to say, then you turn around and say that someone from the Serbian Radical Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia is guilty of the wars of the '90s. The Serbian Radical Party in the government was from March 1998 to October 2000, exactly two and a half years. Much shorter than you, Mr. Milojic, were in power with the SPS. And you didn't mind playing basketball at the time, or signing a historic reconciliation declaration. That didn't bother you. You are attacking us because we have gathered volunteers and because we have defended the Serbian people. Would it have been better if we had experienced Jasenovac again, if we had experienced caves in Herzegovina again, that what was left of the people had been killed, that those who fled, unfortunately, too, had been killed? Would you be pleased then, because it would be the Western democracy that you preach? A crime against peace is the most serious crime. It was carried out by those who committed violent secession in the SFRY and these are the culprits of the war, and it was neither Slobodan Milosevic nor Vojislav Seselj. It was done according to the command of those whom you praise, those whom you enjoin, who have appointed you in power. If you're talking about Alexander Vukic getting drunk for the first time when Djindjic was killed, why didn't it bother you in 2008?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26472	You're bringing the end, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26473	Did I mention something I shouldn't have?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26474	No, no, you're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26475	Here, I'm bringing the end. Therefore, Mr. Milojic, it should be a shame for those who did not defend their people, those who serve the enemy, and do not blame the heroes who defended their people because they did not succeed to the extent they wanted to.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26476	Thank you. Two minutes and 39 seconds. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26477	Thank you, Chairman. Now I'm not reporting from the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'm using the right to replicated by Article 104. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26478	Then you'll have to wait for your colleague Risticevic. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26479	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, members 103, 107, 108 and 109. I appreciate it, Mr. Arsic, for not applying these measures to make things clear. I'm obliged to tell the truth, since I haven't been to these big parties. As for that unfortunate gun in front of the National Assembly, we shot the Duke with certain objects, and he did pull that gun. Whether or not the action was supposed to perform the reaction, I don't know. But I do know that in 1993 there was a coalition before the election, a colleague of Mircic, right, a coalition that was meant to prevent Tomic's election as president of the National Assembly. The Democratic Party was not reluctant to the coalition with the SRS, nor the DSS, or Vojislav Kostunica. Also, the truth works, I have to say that someone spoke – if the other determines what our national interest is, then it is not our national interest. This same man, with whom, of course, "heinekena" has nothing to do with it, said – if our international reputation depends on us sacrificing our national interests, then we do not need such an international reputation. The same man lost his head, in my opinion, because he said Kosovo's independence is not a taboo issue, but he will ask the Republika Srpska question. I believe that Zoran Djindjic values those 40,000 people, Serbs, who died in the civil and religious war in BiH, and they created the Republika Srpska, he appreciated them by believing that they did not die of food poisoning, and among them are nine of my relatives, whom I never mentioned, who left the bones defending their people and misleading their bones for Republika Srpska. With that in mind, I'm obliged to remember all of this and I have to say that unlike "heinekene", I don't think it's a good thing that I brought down Milosevic, I don't think uranium was vitamin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26480	Replica, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26481	I thank you, Chairman. We don't have a problem in the SPS when someone has a need for auto-projection, and we understand even more when someone's fascinated, they have a fascination with the SPS, but we can't accept lies, we can't accept what someone else did, and they're referring to us. We remember that 2000th and that famous October 5th when countless promises were made, and Serbian citizens know best what these promises have done, or what these promises have been made to the citizens, in relation to what they have through praise that they will have after 5 October, and essentially have nothing. We also remember how well we remember beating the director of RTS in front of the RTS building, the unfeeling, the minor to the winding-up. We also remember how well numerous lists of SPS members who may have been lists for liquidation. We also remember how well the burning of this parliament and the burning of ballots, we don't know why. We also remember how well that when individual leaders of the opposition admitted that there was no victory in the first election round, that Milosevic had not lost in the first election round, that the second election round had to, by law, be implemented, not, for political reasons. We remember everything well, but unfortunately, they don't remember those who are talking to us today and all the coalition partners we've been working with and working honestly in the interest of the citizens. I'd ask the citizens to question everything I've said in their heads when they go to the polls and decide who to trust. Thank you. I would ask that we stop with the replicas, so that we can return to the agenda and this session of the Assembly will be successfully completed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26482	Thanks, buddy. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26483	Thank you. As I would say, I feel a little bit like a part-breeder now that I have to talk about the subject, to get back on the subject, after these interesting replicas. Regardless of what I should now commend the mildness of the chairman who allowed it, I would say with a goal, this series of injuries to the Rules of Procedure, I think sometimes exaggerates here, as much as sometimes not to give a word to the opposition, so sometimes, I don't know, for some reason, maybe time is running out, whether people should be gathered for a vote or what, now a replica through the Rules of Procedure is being released. So, that's a good thing if it was always a practice, but I remember, Mr. Chairman, another 20 seconds, when I asked you for one of the only injuries to the Rules of Procedure, I didn't get it for a much more thorough and justified thing. I've never asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure since, nor will I ask. Whatever. So, Mrs. Mihajlovic, we forgot what we were gathered about here. Important laws and important contracts, we continue where we left off. You answered me, I didn't get a chance to answer you, now I don't have that kind of time, but that's why I'm gonna be more specific. Unlike some other laws, ministers we didn't like, against whom we voted, which even we from the opposition and sharply criticised, but came with good bill proposals or decent bill proposals and it wasn't easy against them, it won't be any trouble for me against these here, for various reasons. As we said yesterday about this Transport Community, in principle, it's not bad that there is, it's not bad for Serbia to integrate into the transport European infrastructure, but this dilemma around Kosovo is interesting, it's the only question you didn't really answer yesterday, it's one of two questions, you've answered everything else. I wasn't perhaps as sharp as some of my colleagues who claimed that this contract is now a fact-finding republic of Kosovo. No, there's really a fence, there's interpretative statements, there's footnote, there's stars, there's snowflakes, let's call it what we want, but it looks a little bit like some kind of clumps. You know how to make a wedge of stew, everything gets inserted in, then a wedge is inserted, and then that wedge is taken out, and it's left behind. So it is about independent Kosovo. When a series of these agreements and agreements are concluded at one point, with all of our interpretational statements and fences, at the end of the day when they fall off, when these stars and snowflakes are neglected, then there remains the mention of Kosovo as an equal state, i.e. participants and signatories of all these agreements. It is not only a flaw or a problem with this particular agreement, but it really does seem a little bit like the cooking of a frog, which I think my colleague Mircic mentioned, that little of our public is used to making Kosovo appear as a co-signator. But it's a pair of sleeves. As I said, there are other more problematic agreements and agreements that this country is signing and which, unfortunately, do far worse things in terms of Serbia's territorial integrity, and above all I think of the Brussels agreements, both in 2013, and in 2015. My point is this, so that's what I'm talking about, it's no problem for me to be critical of the Chinese loan, as it's popularly said, not because I blame the Chinese, on the contrary, their goal and task is to make a better arrangement for their country. I am only appealing to our authorities, you will, of course, vote and this Assembly will vote this law and confirm these agreements, including these loans, but whether the EU's loan is either from Germany or from expensive and friendly China, or vice versa, someone may be dear and close to Germany, and China, therefore, whatever it is, please have you and some other majority that will come, hopefully, one day after you, to take more care and to try to take care of the national interest. So, if we estimate that the other side, and obviously there is, whether it is Germany or the EU, whether it is China or Russia, has some interest, let's see, to find a common measure of interest. It bothers me and you haven't answered that enough – why we are taking a big loan at the end of the line, it's 300 million dollars, the Chinese give us credit to build, or not us, but to hire China, Chinese companies to build the railways to Hungary for export, fast-plating their goods, Chinese goods, that's that famous silk road. Interest exists, but why we haven't tried, we're small, they're big, it's also said when it comes to the EU or Germany, or now China. If there is a common interest why no other solutions were sought. I wish I had heard, say, Mr. Mrkonjic or someone else, I know that he was in that vault, or someone else who understood it – why didn't it go to the consortium? Why don't we go on a joint venture? Why not build a joint venture like the North Stream, are Germans, Russians, Italians, etc. or the South Stream made a joint venture so that it builds a common corridor, that is, this railroad, modernizes, and not like this. It's unfavourable and we have to react against it, and so if someone helps you on the head, puts you right next to yourself at some dinner or lunch for us, or the president or prime minister, to accept what's essentially unfavorable for the country. So, consortium, joint investment, something else or third. We need a railroad, we don't need 30-mile-long vehicles, but let's not, and I'm done with that, taking credit. They give us credit that we hire them, that they build something for their own purposes and that Serbian goods will not go that track fast, nor will they travel 200km between, let's not go crazy, New Paz and Indija and Novi Sad. You know what's going to go, what trains are going to go 200 kilometers. So, we need a railroad, we need to modernise the railroad. Why don't we try to go to more favourable arrangements that will be more in the national and national interest, and good will with everyone, especially with great meaning, that should be developed, not condescending and not at all cost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26484	Thank you. Just so you don't be a partbreaker, as you say, the National Assembly is a place where political views are expressed, but even in those political views that often come out of the debate and agenda, I will never let people, whoever are here, be called any murderers, thieves, traitors, be attacked by family members or physically attacked by MPs. Those who do so have an obvious lack of political programme, ideas or arguments and are trying to present the National Assembly as a dictatorship, which it is not. All they have to do is change their manners, the way they express themselves and establish their political ideas and goals. I don't mind having 15 minutes each day, 20 minutes of different attitudes on certain matters. The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26485	As regards the loan to be taken, I hope, which Parliament and MPs and MPs will ratify, with the People's Republic of China, more precisely with the "Exame Bank", and for the first section of the Belgrade railway -- the Stara Paza Centre, which fully agrees with you, is not small, but before it even starts to think about some projects and put into strategic frameworks, means in the strategies to develop the transport of Serbia and the region itself, then certain analyses and pre-studys of feasibility, feasibility studies are considered what are the advantages and how significant it is for our country. It is not at all a question of whether a partner is expensive or not, and there is no, as you said, dear and there are no hate loans, neither these nor those, but there is only one interest of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the interest of Serbia, or of Serbian citizens and citizens. So there's no love in the business. It is for another place, rather than taking great care of the economy, what we want to achieve and what we want to have in transport policy or in the transport of Serbia, not for a year, two or three, but for 20 years and more. I don't know where you get the information that this railroad is made for Chinese goods. So, I don't even understand it and I don't know how you can say it, when it goes through Serbia and property over infrastructure is owned by the state of Serbia. There will be various operators, but it is good to be and the property of the infrastructure is owned by Serbia. Today, at this point, at the Belgrade-Sotatica route, we have, for example, eight pairs of freight trains, three pairs of passenger trains, 80 local trains. Annually, only in this part of Belgrade -- Subotica, 2.4 million passengers, four million tonnes of goods. Of course it's not enough and we want more. That means you can't tell me it's Chinese goods. What are those Chinese? No, they're not. So it's Corridor 10. There is no more important Corridor in this country than Corridor 10. We can't be the island. So, Hemigway still said, man is not an island. Neither is Serbia an island, Serbia must connect with all. The fact that Serbia has the best position in this part of Europe says that Serbia needs to earn from its transit position and that is why we are working on infrastructure and that is why it is energy and that is why it is transport. Furthermore, to repeat once again, ownership, therefore, the state infrastructure railways is the owner of the railway infrastructure that we are doing, as it is now the owner. It won't be the private owner. Another very important thing, yesterday I mentioned it, today I think it's important that I say it one more time. So 49% of this contract and everything we do will be done by domestic companies, anything that can be produced in our country will be domestic components. Unfortunately, there are some things we cannot produce, we will have to import in accordance with European standards, therefore, not in accordance with any standards. At first, you wondered if we'd forgotten where we left off. We've never forgotten where we left off, and I really don't know how to make a bucket of stew, and I can't understand that we're talking about it today -- you know, if we were to put away a star or if we were to call it a snowflake, then it would actually be this. You know, if you took away 20 years from me, I'd be 27. Well, we can't talk like that, this is an international contract, it's very important for our country, we'll have a systematic improvement in our transport policy. We'll build the corridors we're planning. It stands very clearly in Resolution, all over what Kosovo means with a star, so it is placed in preamble, in annexes, everything that was possible to put is put in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26486	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26487	Just for a little while, so there's no misunderstanding. I support the need, of course it's being built, I said if there's ever any point in a loan being raised, then it needs to be built for infrastructure. So that's the only excuse, conditionally said when that loan makes sense. Of course, if there was no love, I would draw your attention that there was no love in the business. I'm just afraid, and that's why I said I'm appealing to this or some future government that's negotiating, to take care of the state's interests, not to be honored or assisted or commended by their foreign partner. I think our authorities, I'm not just talking about this current government right now, but by the way, we've often been inclined to declare them a regional leader or a factor of peace and stability or what I know, whether they are making big or unnecessary concessions. So it's not disputed that we need to rebuild the railway network, I was just asking, and you avoided the answer to that question, I didn't happen to mention engineer Mrkonjic or anyone else who understands it here in the O.R., whether there was some other arrangement, some other option, so I mentioned the North Stream, South Stream, it's known how it was done. So, to create an enterprise that will participate in the building together. The last thing, you mentioned the second time, 49% that will build our companies. Great, but I didn't see it in this proposal. So, I don't know, we operate on what we get. I didn't find that information here, and I'm glad if that's the case, so, 49% or over 49% of the work is done by our contractor companies. That would be good, but I'd like to see it both in writing and be something the MPs are committed to. I end up not being praised, anointed by the head, and then we're lucky to be declared regional, so we accept arrangements that don't exactly suit us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26488	The word has Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't understand why those who were in power of all their genius ideas about building highways, railways, taking credit and so on did not exercise power when they were in the Republic of Serbia. You are Mr. Vukadinovic chosen from the list of parties that have ruled this country for a number of years. Well, why all those ideas about the north and south flow, why all those railroads, why didn't you build all those highways? I want to remind you that, if I am not mistaken, you are in the National Assembly since the recent MP Vuk Jeremic. You lecture us on how we allegedly want to recognise Kosovo and Metohija at a small door and you're an MP for a man who was foreign minister and who represented as the most brilliant diplomatic achievement by asking the International Court of Justice whether the declaration of independence is so-called "independence". Kosovo is in accordance with international law or not, so a response has arrived from the same International Court of Justice that our heads still suffer from today. Use Kosovo and Metohija in the most bizarre way possible to force the SNS as someone who allegedly wants to betray Kosovo and Metohija. Yesterday, your colleague Slavisa Ristić saw trees and stones on Alexander Vukic. - traitor, he sold Kosovo and Metohija, and Slavisa Ristic today, thank God, I have nothing against it, a state official of the Tax Administration in the Zubin stream municipality receives salary from the Serbian budget and says - there is no Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. And one more thing to tell you, Mr. Vukadinovic, both you and everyone else who knows what kind of situation the state is in when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija. Serbia is not what was western Germany after World War II. West Germany had a lot of...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26490	You're bringing the end, my colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26491	I'm done. ... Much more powerful, much stronger friends in the world than Serbia has today. West Germany had a so-called. Halstein's doctrine. Whoever confesses to East Germany, West Germany is breaking up diplomatic relations with her. But, Mr Vukadinovic, does the Republic of Serbia have in 2017 that political, economic and military force and such powerful allies as the Federal Republic of Germany had after World War II?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26492	Thank you, colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26493	We're not in the same position. We have to fight through the forces of the world, to get through how we know and know. P
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26494	You have no right, Mr. Vukadinovic. You had one replica, Martinovic had one. The minister has given up his reply. We're moving on. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26495	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, before I begin to discuss the second, third and fourth draft laws, because I will talk about the first draft of the law to my colleague from the Serbian Group of the Dveri Movement, I would only in one sentence confirm my full agreement with what the President-in-Office has just said about democracy, and I, indeed, advocate everything you have said and every one of yours, as they say, can sign it. Unfortunately, it's not like that sometimes, believe me. Eight times yesterday I asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I didn't get it one time. But that doesn't matter, let me talk about the laws. Proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement with Exa Bank, that so-called China's Export-Import Bank loan, as it's called, is all right, it's all nice, it says in the minister's explanation, but some things don't write in that explanation, so I had to do some extra work. What it says is that we're taking about 300 million dollars from China, and yes, look out now, this data is very significant, so far we've taken $1.6 billion from that bank. In another loan we will find that we have already taken $3.1 billion from the European Investment Bank, although some five million in debt to the Serbian debt, I apologize to five billion, I am talking about 1.6 billion. So, it is not disputed that all these projects are necessary to the state of Serbia and there is no one who is well-intentioned to say that we do not need a railroad or that we do not need a refurbishment of water lines, sewerages, the construction of tanks or that we do not need all those projects that are being undertaken by recasting those long-term loans, and I will talk about that later. The only thing that's our problem here is whether it's done in the best way possible by country? In those negotiations, did the state negotiate the best she could, or was some conditions and things a little too much? We say the loan is on privileged terms and we say the contract was signed six months ago, and then we bring it in urgently. We'll agree, six months of emergency, and yesterday you said that since 26 August, he's been in procedure in the Assembly. What were we waiting for from August 26th to today? These are the answers we won't get, questions we don't have an answer to. So 300 million for 20 years of credit, five years of grace period, 15 years of repayment, the availability of credit, says, five years, and can be extended and then we get to one thing that's said to be 2% interest. Do you know, Madam Minister, how much is the interest on that loan? The interest on that loan, but it doesn't say anything, and nobody in this House has said that, it is 63 million dollars. In the first five years when we have a grace period, the smallest one, in the first five years with a grace period of 15 million $449 thousand $680.96, and in the next 15, 47,494,698.30. So on the loan that we've raised from 300 million, we're paying back plus 63, and in these 63, I've also charged the processing costs of 0.25%, which is a $750,000 circus for the processing of loans. People, is that what it is, and to add one more thing to all of this, a particular problem, exchange rate and currency risk, because we took credit in dollars, and at this point, the relationship of the euro and the dollar, and we are going towards the EU, is a good relationship. At this point, the dinar has strengthened both against the euro and against the dollar. Who's to guarantee that this exchange rate and currency risk in the next 20 years is going to be the same as it is right now, who can guarantee it? That we don't get what happened to the poor citizens who were in charge of their loans in the Swiss francs, because it was a good course and currency risk, so today they paid more than they took and what was left to owe. So much for that. Second contract with KfW bank, there are fewer figures. There's $17 million. You haven't told us what the interest is again. Yeah, you said 1.1%, but I'll tell you that over 17 million euros is a million-dollar interest and 524 thousand 494.55 euros, at least, because we have those variations when we raise a portion of the tranche, so we don't raise the rest, so it can be, so it doesn't have to be. It is not disputed that we need water and sewerage both in Kikinda and in Vrbas and in Knjižvac and Paracino. It is not disputed that the state will be in charge and that the state will grant it to those medium-sized municipalities and cities 30%. Have you wondered if your cities and these municipalities will be able to pay you back? I'll tell you, yesterday we were talking about contracts with KfW Bank. I've been a councilman in the City of Kings for five years. Did you know that the city broke the last part of the tranche contract with KfW Bank about the heat? Did you know that for four years, the subsidy was given to the city of Kraljevo from the budget, so that regular debt payments that went under those contracts, which took heat and water, would be serviced? So that's what we have to think about. If the cities don't come back, given that it's a state-owned borrower, the state will pay back, or we'll all return by filling the budget. Finally, a few words about the fourth law. What's in my eye? This is where we raised 3.1 billion euros from the European Investment Bank in the past period. Gentlemen, here we are renewing credit lines for loans from 2006, 2008, 2009, and only the one for the restoration of courts is from 2016.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26496	You are bringing the end, colleague Vesovic, six minutes and 12 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26497	A whole group of MPs, Mr. Arsic, the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26498	All right, keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26499	Then I'm sure I'll get these 10 seconds. He had a discussion with me, Minister Lonchar. We now took the money through C, 50m euros, at the last Assembly session. The first contract of 2006, Clinical Centres A, is 80m euros, Clinical Centres B of 2008 70m euros. We haven't spent that money, we're renewing the contracts, and we're raising a new 50 million. I'm asking a question right now, and I don't blame anyone here -- who's to blame for not raising the money? Who's to blame for not spending the money? Who's going to answer for that, because at least, by studying the loan I've been discussing with Mr. Loncar, Clinical Center C 50 million, there clearly writes how it works, how the tranches are raised, and what interest are there, where is the responsibility of anyone in this country when such an unplanned thing happens to us? It's those hunches that I have personally and that I speak to. I'd like to get an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26500	Thank you. The word has Minister Zorana Mihailovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26501	Just to ask, since the strength of the decibel is so high, I wonder what's next. I understand everything and every word said in a more peaceful way than you said. But I figured out what you meant by "let's try to explain." I understand, also your concern, because you're not an economist, you're a dentist, and so, you can't possibly tell some things about credit, and that's why I'm here. When you started talking about the loan, so-called Chinese, as you say, and then you started talking about the European Investment Bank that we're going in some order. For every loan, for every draft bill in front of you, there are all the terms of the loan. Before negotiating a financing contract, there is a commercial contract. When a commercial contract is signed, it is the basis that we can move forward in general to negotiate a financing contract. Preferential loans with the People's Republic of China are loans under the most favourable conditions. We don't know where the idea of saying that in the last five years, which is a grace period, you don't pay any interest during those five years, you tell the citizens and explain that you're paying, I don't know how much for the loan. So that's wrong first. Grace's period means there's no payment for five years. The interest rate is 2%, I understand that you want to show how you can calculate percentages, that's fine, but it's not hidden. Just so citizens know that Serbia is the only country of 16 Southeast European countries with the highest percentage of projects it is working with the People's Republic of China, which is really important to us. All the projects we're doing are funded on the best possible terms agreed, first of all, with the president of the People's Republic of China. I think that's important to us. It's important for us because the conditions are good, it's important, because through commercial contracts we negotiate the participation of our domestic companies, it's also important in a political relationship, because we can't talk about an economy separate from politics, it always goes together. Furthermore, you spoke about the European Investment Bank and some borrowing. The European Investment Bank is the only bank, among other things, in relation to all other international financial institutions, which does not charge any fees on undrawn funds. Thus, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the World Bank also charges, but the European Investment Bank does not. What's going on in front of you, therefore, is the draft law that is in front of you, which just points to all those who have any problem in the tender on our republican commission to protect the rights of the bidder. So, before this, someone was talking about how all this is done just by the rules of the European Investment Bank. No, against it. It is in accordance with our Public Procurement Act and in accordance with what we need to adopt and hope to do so, it points to the Republic Commission. This government, first of all, looks at its country's interest, means Serbia. Everything else is in second place. What does not correspond to the citizens and citizens of Serbia is not adopted and does not come to this parliament with you MPs. And that would be all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26502	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26503	The chairman, MPs, citizens of Serbia and Mrs. Mihailovic, again failed to hold the session in the way you have led in the past half hour and hour. And why didn't you give Mr. Vesovic the right to a replica? And yesterday, you also didn't let the Rules of Procedure speak twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26504	Do you want to talk about the agenda or do you want to talk about my actions?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26505	Of course I'll talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26506	Then get started.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26507	Let me just tell you what your arches are like.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26508	I say you're ruining today's debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26509	Can I go on? (Dragan Vesovic: I was a champion in mathematics. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26510	Well, you're going because someone was a math champion and someone in chemistry was going to go on a show of replicas? Here you go, Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26511	As for the Transport Community Treaty, I would first ask the Minister's question - who is the name of the contract? So, the Transport Community Treaty does not apply to any country, not to any region, but only to the Transport Community Treaty. Why is that? Why is it not said that the Treaty on the Transport Community of the Western Balkans? Perhaps we can think that the Treaty on the Transport Community of the European Union of Serbian countries in the region is simply creating space for something that is yet to happen. This is the first time we've heard of an international contract called no one. As for the introduction, before members, he writes a continuing work under the Memorandum of Understanding on the development of the basic regional transport network of South East Europe, signed in Luxembourg on 11 June 2004, and in large letters, that this Memorandum of Understanding will no longer be relevant. So the big letters in the introduction say – the contract that was signed in 2004, is no longer relevant. Madam Minister, don't laugh. Have a little understanding. Your throws are always pretentious. Listen to other people. Many things have changed since 2008, since the KIM separatists declared independence. Here in footnote is a legal untruth that says - the name without predicting the positions on status and in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1244, which is not true. You said well below, but you are distracting the public and distracting the MPs and the opinion of the International Court of Justice on the Kosovo Declaration of Independence, the International Court of Justice. This contract does not comply with Resolution 1244. If it were in line with the Resolution, we would not have the need today to put this 2004 treaty and the 2004 Memorandum into a new form, and many MPs have spoken about why it is, and this is because of the new entity in this contract, which is the state of Kosovo, the so-called state of Kosovo. All contracts by 2008, which were related to the AP KiM territory, signed by UNMIK on behalf of the territory, and are now signed by representatives of the Kosovo government for the first time. In 2007, Madam Minister, the Cefti Treaty signed UNMIK instead of the current fake KIM institutions. So for the citizens of Serbia, this contract is real and it is signed that KIM would enter into the international community, into international institutions, and I will not say here, and there is also a declaration at the end of the argument that you too promise that it will not be, that many doubt that Kosovo is not recognised as an independent territory, but all MPs, if this parliament and this assembly last, will see in the next year what will happen, in which direction Serbia is heading this time. Is this an extension since 2000, where every step of KIM is put into the form of an independent state? We will all be present, soon, to see how after these internal dialogues, the President of the State will decide to resolve this issue, and everyone should know, starting with you, and starting with the MPs in this House, that we will all be responsible for taking our stand on this matter. No one will be able to justify themselves because the topic of this contract and the topic on which both the government and the state of Serbia are stumbled is the subject of Kosovo and Metohija, and we cannot exclude that fact, and according to the largest Serbian poet: "About Kosovo, the ugly judiciary, in the midst of you Sodom," each MP will bear responsibility for his position on Kosovo and Metohija very quickly, as some prime ministers have borne the responsibilities of the previous government, and some prime ministers have lost their head because of the stance on Kosovo and Metohija. Serbia's Dvori Movement, Madam Minister, believes the contract is not in Serbian interest, starting with the introduction of the Kosovo and Metohija entities, beginning with a false explanation that everything is in line with the Resolution, starting with the Dvori movement being considered as Kosovo and Metohija temporarily occupied territory and that such contracts cannot be signed with it. Also, this contract is only in the interest of the Albanian state. I'll tell you specifically, here, in the contract annex there's a map. And by the way, what's interesting is that out of these four maps on waterways, as far as rail roads are concerned, no map has been changed. It's just a map of road traffic has been changed. Three new times are drawn on this map. Let the MPs and citizens of Serbia listen carefully. A new road is being planned, which is the road from Kosovo and Metohija towards Montenegro, two routes. One route goes from Pristina and goes to Rozaje, and another route goes from Peći to Blue. That anyone can see who has this contract in front of him. Also, the third route, the new one, I'm talking about new routes, and that's the Podgorica-Drare-Tirana route and, of course, the route that the government is talking about all the time, and you and them together, the Tirana-Pristina-Nish route, and now I'm asking the question when I see this – in whose interest can be these plans? In this contract, since you respected Mr. Vesovic's lack of understanding in the economy, there is not a single economic item in this contract. We need to talk about this contract from a political perspective, because we don't know what the plans are and what the five-year plan is, what are the priorities for these projects? It doesn't say anything, but from what we can see, the priorities are to make new paths for Kosovo and Albania to connect with Serbia-Montenegro. In whose interest? So, we can freely say that this is only in the interest of Greater Albania, creating some new space, new territories in the Balkan areas, or perhaps it is in NATO's interest, because they need these corridors to bring Montenegro, Podgorica and Tirana and Drac, the port of Durres, and also bring Albania together through Kosovo and Metohija with Nis. So that's what's only being concluded and what's new about this contract and these maps. You tell me if that's not the case. Now I'm asking why are you as the minister of traffic so far, before signing these contracts? The question is, will this ever be accepted and will the so-called The government of Kosovo and Metohija accept this with these footnotes and these declarations. Why is there not a single road in the interest of Serbian citizens? There isn't. Here, you don't have a single path to Republika Srpska's new one. Have you ever traveled to Sarajevo via Zvornik, the owner in that direction? How long has he traveled? Have you ever traveled over Bijeljina and Doboj to Banja Luka, Madam Minister, to see how far they travel? So, no new route that is in the interest of Serbian integration is listed here. You can nod all you want when there's nothing here. So there's not a single route here that connects Serbia and the Republika Srpska, and we're all talking about connecting, integration, special relationships. Unfortunately, the people who run this project, representing the government of the Republic of Serbia, have failed to put some new corridors on these maps with their authority. As far as the road to Montenegro is concerned, everything remains the same. Well, here, look, there's a new route here that crosses across the goal. I don't know who's here and how he put this route across the cave without passing near Zlatibor, through Chatitino and connecting the region where more inhabitants live than in the Sjenica-Novi Pazar municipality? Now I ask you a question on why this route was drawn here when, as far as I know, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not yet decided that the highway to Montenegro will go across Golia? Not officially, and it's drawn here. So, you already prejudge that the highway to Montenegro should cover the so-called. Sandzak area, which essentially never existed. It's a name for military territory. It doesn't cross the Goldibor, it doesn't cross the Prepolje, it doesn't cross the New Varoshi. So you're already pointing out that this is where you're supposed to go? These are reasons why the Serbian Dvora Movement cannot vote on this point, because this project and this contract are not in the interests of the Serb people. Also, as far as the budget is concerned, Serbian citizens should allocate certain financial resources for some project that is not in their interest, and according to the items for the transport community budget, we see the EU funding this budget and this transport community by 80%. So what would they finance if it wasn't in their interest? So it is simply in their interest to finance projects that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should participate in, to create projects that are only for the purpose and interest of the citizens of Kosovo and Metohija, the citizens of Albania and NATO. Say it's not like that. So all roads are tied and are in the interest of the economic interests and national interests of Kosovo and Metohija and Albania. So there is no new one here for the citizens of Serbia. Also, as for railway routes, back in 2005, in 2009, funds were allocated for project documentation and feasibility study for the Belgrade-Bipest track. None of it was done. Do you know, Madam Minister, how many trains go from Belgrade to Montenegro? Fourteen hours. That's what you've been talking about for seven, eight years, and you've been in power for five years and you haven't succeeded, but the situation is only worse. Every year the railway line and train to Podgorica and Bar goes on longer and longer. So this contract is not in the interest of the Serbian citizens or the Serbian people in Republika Srpska or the Serbian people in Montenegro. We've already said whose interest he's in. I don't know why Serbian citizens would single out money for something that still needs to be, which we don't know what's going to be, and what's in the interest of some other peoples from the Balkans? In this regard, we find this Transport Community Treaty unacceptable. We said there's nothing new. There are only new roads that are connected to Albania, and that's what you want to push through the National Assembly here. It is difficult for me that representatives of the ruling coalition will vote for it, and perhaps they did not get to know what this contract represents. Also, as regards the loan agreement between KfW Bank and the Water Supply and sewerage programme in Serbia's medium size municipalities, I will personally vote in favour of the proposal because of the municipality I come from, the Vrbas municipality. In the Vrbas municipality, the issue of sewers needs to be resolved. Unfortunately, it hasn't been done in the past. The issue of water supply, the issue of a large copper canal, we know what the situation is, that this is the most polluted flow in Europe, which no government has managed to solve in the past 30 years. The people are being poisoned by this water. One thing that is interesting here – is there a serious state in the world that allows foreign engineers, if engineers, to enter security-interesting facilities and to see the state of things in the Vrbas municipality, and I suppose that was the case in these other municipalities? Do you think our engineers could come in? Just laugh. Between the two world wars, the "Simens" commercialists, who came here on government orders and by Milan Stojadinovic's orders, eventually turned out to be all working for German secret services. That's what you have information about, and that's what historians are talking about. You today allow German engineers, perhaps even German journalists, to enter the high security facilities of the Republic of Serbia, to look into the situation and maybe make some plans that they will sometimes need. On the other hand, I believe that there must be a legal solution that these things and projects on the spot should not involve foreign citizens, and what kind of situation we have in security services after 2000, should not be surprised that this is happening. So we're hollows all over the place. I hope that soon there will be awareness among the members of the VBA and the members of the BIA, that at last all foreign agents and people working in the foreign interest, many of whom are the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence, will finally be cleaned up and that these services are finally controlled by the Serbian state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26512	The word has a minister, Dr Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26513	What you've told me. So, what you've told me is not half-truth, but I don't know what it's called, half-untruths, how to express myself without insulting you, of course, I don't want to offend you. Let's start with the ID. If I'm laughing, I've been planning on laughing my whole life. I apologize for that if that bothers you. I hope you don't throw some mouse at me for that, but I'll keep laughing. I guess I'd better laugh than cry. Now, to what's called - agenda points. You said, he says -- why does it say, says, "The Treaty establishing the Transport Community," and there's no Southeast Europe anywhere? This, it says nicely – the European Union, in the next text of the Union or the European Union, a small space, and so letter I, and the next row, how usually international contracts are made, in large letters, foreign signatories from Southeast Europe, in small letters, so the countries, all the above pages, so you have Southeast Europe, that I would not read it now, if you have met the Treaty, you have seen it. Secondly, you started talking here about that no single route in the Transport Community Treaty is in the interest of Serbian citizens. So Dvori says this, PG Dvori says -- no transport route in this contract, in these cards here, is in the interest of Serbian citizens. So, dear citizens of Serbia, Dveri say like this -- the French Corridor is not in the interest of Serbian citizens, Moravski Corridor is not in the interest of Serbian citizens, Corridor 10, so neither is it in the interest of Serbian citizens, nor the north, nor the centre, nor the south. So, Corridor 11, connecting with Montenegro, is not in Serbia's interest either, so what would we link to Montenegro, so that we would connect with Hungary, Bulgaria, Macedonia, so that we could connect with Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's what the Dwri says. So, in this Transport Community Treaty, there are absolutely all corridors, there is a basic network of the most basic corridors, and below that is the network of projects, that is so-called. A comprehensive network, where all the corridors proposed by the state of Serbia are in this contract. One more thing, in relation to all other countries, therefore, you say this Treaty is in the interest of Albania, is not true at all. So, all the corridors only of the Western Balkan countries cross over Serbia. Every other state around us doesn't have all those corridors. So we have them. It's a huge difference and a huge advantage. That's why this contract is important to us. When we talk about connecting, you say again in Albania's interest. Well, wait, we're connecting Nis-Dimitrovgrad, we're doing electricity, modernization, we're doing a bypass around Nis, 250,000 euros that costs. It is one of the routes, of which, among other things, the Western Balkan Fund gives Serbia a grant of 70,000,000 euros. I don't understand what this has to do with any other country. This is good for Serbia. So when you say things like that, or take a good look at the map. If you have a problem with that, we're here to explain it. You mention the Belgrade-Bar railroad. For the first time in 40 years, this government reconstructed and modernised 77 kilometers of this railroad. Not all that needs to be reconstructed, which passes through Serbia, but it has been done 77km for the previous two years. We'll do the rest and get back to projected speed. But for 40 years, no one's touched that. Secondly, if you say you're from Vrbasa, then maybe you should try to take the Belgrade-Wrbas train, it's a new train, a modernized railroad, 110 kilometers an hour. I'm sure it can be nice. So don't say it's here... What is important for citizens to hear and for which I have reported first of all, which is the fact that you deceive the public with a story that this contract is not in the interest of the Serbian citizens, that this contract is in the interest of Albania or any other. And the fact is that you deceive Serbian citizens when you say that no route put here is in the interest of Serbian citizens. That's the basic thing. First, it's not true. The cards show very clearly, they'll be shown everywhere, they're not secret, they can be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26514	My colleague Kostic, first Mr. Martinovic has the right to the replica you challenged.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26515	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as Mrs Mihajlovic said, a lot has been said here. I'll hardly be able to deny all these lies and nonsense in two minutes, but I'll try to do it in the most part. As for Kosovo and Metohija, let us repeat this once again, in Article 2a, on page 119. The Transport Community Treaty, it stands well, and it is a great success of the Republic of Serbia, under point (c) – none of the terms, words or definitions used in this Treaty, including annexes and protocols, constitute the recognition of Kosovo by the EU as an independent state, nor constitute recognition of individual Kosovo member states in that capacity when such a step is not taken by the same. Let me say something, purely human. You, who talk about Kosovo and Metohija, about how we from the SNS are betraying it, and you are defending it, you, Mr. Kostic, will return to your Vrbas, Mr. Veljović, Veljkovic will return to his Kingdom, and Bosko Obradovic will return to Cačak. But my fellow MPs, Dragan Veljkovic will return to Strpce. My colleague Stanija Compirovic will return to Kosovo Mitrovica. Dr. Milovan Krivokapic will return to Kosovo Mitrovica. What do you think, that they are willing to betray the land they live in, that they are ready to betray their families, the graves of their ancestors, and that you will defend them? Please don't. It's the height of political hypocrisy. The state of Serbia is present in Kosovo and Metohija, you wanted to admit it or not, among other things, and thanks to these brave people who are sitting here, living in Kosovo and Metohija, who show that Kosovo and Metohija is a Serb fact that they are MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26516	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26517	Just a few more sentences, Mr. Arsic. Please, you were tolerated today and when the ugly words were spoken at the expense of Mrs. Mihajlović, so let me finish. For the so-called Serbian Dvori Movement, says Montenegro is a Serbian country, Republika Srpska is a Serbian country, and then when the government of the Republic of Serbia wants to connect Serbia-Montenegro, it says -- here you are making some roads to Montenegro, what do we have to do with Montenegro? The government of the Republic of Serbia has built a bridge, primarily thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Bratoljub bridge connecting the two sides of the Drina River -- Serbia and Republika Srpska, and has played a significant role in this by Ms. Mihajlovic and her ministry. My colleague Mircic, I failed to replicate him, told him – no access traffic was made. Well, Milorad Dodik said that the lack of access to traffic from the Drina coast of BiH is responsible for BiH authorities, not the government of the Republic of Serbia and not the ministry run by Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26518	Now really bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26519	Just one more sentence, please, Mr. Arsic. As for Albania, Mr. Ivan Kostic, that the citizens of Serbia, on 30 November, who says we should not connect with Albania, travels to Albania on 30 November as the chairman of the Diaspora Committee in Shkodra. Well, isn't it in Serbia's interest to connect Serbia and the Serb people living in northern Albania, among other things, in Skadra, Drac, with their country of origin?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26520	Two minutes from the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Ivan Kostic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26521	I won't even answer to Mr. Martinovic. There's no point in answering, there's nothing. As for the road to Albania, we are going to call the Serbian National Council from Podgorica and we are going to visit Serbs in Albania that they do not recognise, because there this country did not allow them to have their own school or their own medium. It is Alexander Vukic's policy towards Serbs in Albania in the last five years. The Serbian cultural centre, which he promised three years ago, has not yet been opened by the president of the state. This is your relationship with the Serbs in Albania, and I often go there and know how they live, and the question is when was the last time you went. Now your MP will go, so he'll be able to represent you there. As far as KIM is concerned, I firmly believe that many MPs, I suppose, almost all of them, are not for the fact that this is the name of Kosovo and Metohija in the contract and that Serbia will ever recognise Kosovo and Metohija. They should be aware that maybe they don't know what's in their president's head or what he's up to. That's another thing. As for Mrs. Mihajlovic, she misread it, I hope it is not deliberate, malicious, I said that the title does not say which territory and what countries it refers to, but only the transport contract, not the introduction and members, because they don't know where they're going to put us either. So, they won't take us into the EU, they're building some new space for the Western Balkan countries. As far as the corridor is concerned, it is not true that I said they are not in the interest of Serbian citizens. I said he doesn't have any new corridors. Corridors towards Bulgaria, corridors towards Greece already exist. So, new corridors, and as for the Belgrade-Verbas railroad, I often go to it, travels for two and a half hours. As far as Wrabbas is concerned, it's 40 an hour. First, I'd be happy to have that railroad straightened out and we'd go 120 an hour. That's a little clarification. We wanted to congratulate you on your godmothership at the Assembly Church in Belgrade, and I hope it's not just a new marketing move, but that you'll get along a little with the church's top on some ethical and national issues, such as the Kim theme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26522	On what grounds do you now have the right to a replica? (Dragan Vesovic: He mentioned the Serbian Movement of Dveri. It can, but when one of you comes out, it's okay. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's exactly what Mr. Kostic said. He will travel to Shkodar on November 30th, but not on his spending, but on the cost of Serbia's state as chairman of the Diaspora Committee. They have seven MPs, dear Serbian citizens, and they have the chairman of the Diaspora and Serbs in the region and then he says -- the government is terrorising the opposition in Serbia and not giving them their rights. I think at least ten SNS deputies can be the chairman of the Diaspora and Serbs Committee in the region, but we have given you the place to respect the rights of the minority in this parliament. So, you, Mr. Kostic, will travel to Shkodar, but at the expense of the Serbian state, not at your expense. That's what's important to emphasize. As for relations with Albania, Serbia's dear citizens, SNS MPs have, in the last three years at least four times, as far as I have managed to count for this short time, stayed in Tirana and thanks to the efforts of SNS MPs, thanks to the politics of the government of the Republic of Serbia, thanks to the politics of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vucic, Serbs in Albania for the first time in 70 years, since Enver Hodge, have recognised as an ethnic community in the Republic of Albania, but this is not thanks to the politics of the Dvora movement, but thanks to SNS policy. As far as foreign mercenaries are concerned, I will now tell you something, your President Bosko Obradović, here is the text in "Iskri", otherwise LJotić's note, printed in Munich, as LJotić's all fled to Germany to their German masters, says – a democratic lie and a light of truth, and then says "New Iskra" in Cacak, on the day of St. Elijah in 2001. Why am I saying this? Mr. Kostic, you may not know it, I used to deal with it when I was younger, this same Milan Stojadinović, who you were talking about, established, thanks to the police, that Dimitrije Ljotic, your ideological father, was funded through the so-called. technical assistance, organizations behind which Nazi Germany stood. If someone doesn't have the right to talk about foreign mercenaries, it's you. You were foreign mercenaries, and you stayed that day.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26524	The replica was also reported by Dragan Vesovic and Ivan Kostic. (Ivan Kostic: He mentioned me. He did mention you, but you are an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. I don't mind your role as colleague Vesovic, but you can't get a replica twice on the same basis. Mr. Vesovicu, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26525	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are many grounds, but I hope that my right to the replica will last at least a little longer than my colleague Martinovic did. First, I'd tell the Minister that those who have long known me know I'm a throat, but I'm not aggressive. Check it out. This is how I talk in the house. It's true that sometimes it looks like I'm fighting and yelling, but it's not, it's my way of communicating. I am sure that my colleague Martinovic knew that I am not Veljkovic, Veljovic, but that I am Vesovic, just as I know he is Martinović and I have no problem there. (Alexander Martinovic: I apologize. Accepted. I really don't have a problem. It's not nice for us to be so-called. The Serbian movement of Dveri, because you've never heard from my mouth that you're so-called SNS. It's even less nice that two parties that bind identical or similar patriotic feelings tell each other about KIM. We can't all be with KIM, nor can we be from the King, Belgrade or anywhere. We're all one and we're called Serbs. It's ugly, and I'm sure you'll never have an opponent for those parts of the story when we give these stories to some third parties to enjoy. There's no need to talk about it. As far as travel is concerned, as chairman of the Diaspora Committee, it has always been good manners for those who are smaller in number to manage some congregation committees. Unfortunately for me, it is not respected in a number of cases, and your political assessment is that it is so correct. When Mr. Kostic travels, he will not travel alone, he will surely go either very likely and vice-president of the SNS board. If anyone travels, we don't want to talk about it, let's not talk about things where there's no room for slow dispute for those who think the same thing about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26526	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26527	I apologize to my colleague Vesovic. Indeed, colleague Vesovic, I had no intention of offending you, I mispronounced your last name. You're a correct man, and I'm really sorry I got your last name wrong. What's not wrong is the ideology of the movement you belong to. (Ivan Kostic: Same thing again.) Yeah, same again. Your President, Bosko Obradovic, says of democracy, says -- that's the ideology of crowds, surfaces, vanity, the rule of speakers, phrases and phrases. You know, that's what Hitler was saying, that's what Mussolini was saying. We in Serbia in World War II had two dominant anti-fascist movements – Partizan and Equality. Unfortunately, we had a small, though insignificant, group of people who belonged to the so-called. The people's movement "The congregation", hated as Latvians, was called by the Chetniks. You are their ideological followers. As much as you're trying to figure it out now, push it under the carpet, pretend you're something else, you're ideological followers of those who... The other day Bosko Obradovic hit me with a mouse. I said, "I'm on my own." This is good. You know what your ideological fathers were doing, the founders of this ideology? For example, Marisav Petrovic, he took students to Kragujevac on October 21st 1941 to show how faithful he was to the German occupier. You continue that ideology. I'll tell you what, no twists, no gloves. You continue the fascist ideology of a small group of people who did not represent anything in the Serbian people, but unfortunately because of the evil opportunities in World War II, she managed somehow to take power over what, or part of the government in what was called "Nedic Serbia". And as for travel to Albania, it's not travel, as far as I know, Mr. Miodrag Linta, but it's my distinguished colleague, Alexander Markovic. But for the Serbian citizens to know, you are not going there because you love the Serbs very much in Albania, but because I am talking to you, Mr. Kostic, president of the Diaspora and Serbs Committee in the region, and you are not going to Albania on your own cost, but on the cost of the state of Serbia. So it's obvious that this patriotism of yours has somehow its own monetary expression.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26528	The People's MP Ivan Kostic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26529	To respond to Mr Martinovic, for the sake of Serbian citizens. As far as ideology is concerned, the Serbian Dvori Movement is the first, I can say freely, after 2000, the first organization, whether NGOs and political at the time, which it wrote in its journal on the evil fascism on the territory of Serbia, about the evil fascism on the territory of Europe, and whether the fascism and the materials that were brought on the side are now supported by your parliamentary group and your party, which are your friends from the West. So fascism was created in Germany and Italy and these are the ideologies. Personally, I do not accept the division on the left and right, I accept only the division as Russian thinkers said in the late 19th century – the Slavic film of the Europeans. We are the Slavics, and are you Europeans, whether your members are Europeans, I doubt that. So that left and right division in the Serbian people never existed, and it's not authentically ours. As far as travel is concerned, I can say freely, and people who went with us several times, that I personally, unfortunately, paid my way, as chairman of the Diaspora Committee and Serbs in the region, twice. Our delegation when it's gone, we're the most humble of all delegations when we show up somewhere. Ask people who drive cars about this, ask the MPs who go and how many journals they are, how welcome they are, and how other people treat our delegations. So take a little account when someone goes to represent the Republic of Serbia, to represent in the light that they deserve, not to go as the last poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26530	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26531	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, so that we here can fully clarify who I am, Mr. Kostic, a Serb, love this country and fight for it to move forward, as well as all my colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party's Parliamentary Group. The fact that you have connections with Dimitri Ljotic and "The Assembly", according to your President, Bosko Obradovic, in the magazine "New Spark". He says, I quote Mr. Obradovic, otherwise the greats of Serbian political thought: "Therefore there should be no opportunity to witness this new state of political awareness in the Serbian people and to complement the political principles and guidelines of "The Assembly" and Dimitri LJotic." That's what Mr. Bosko Obradovic says. So, you are the Continuers of "The Assembly" and Dimitri Ljotic. And if that were the case, three things say: your friendship with Ivan Pernar, who openly honors allegedly the shooting Ustashas in Blyburg, says, allegedly, because no Ustasha was shot in Blyburg, your friendship with the pro-fascist political party from Bulgaria Ataka, which requires that four Serbian districts be joined so-called. Santefhania Bulgaria and ultimately, your friendship and your congratulations to your president to this pro-fascist and Nazi political group in Germany called the Alternative for Germany. When you say you have friends in the world, your friend is not Putin. You don't have any friends in China. Your friends are Ustasha, your friends are Bulgarian fascists and your friends are German neo-Nazis. They may be your friends, but they are not Serbian friends and they are not friends of the Serb people. Serbia, led by Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party, wants Russia and the European Union to have friends... (President: Bring the end, Mr. Martinovic. )......................................................................................................... And the United States, we're looking to preserve our national and state interests, but with fascists anywhere in the world, we won't have anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26532	Thank you. (Ivan Kostic: Replica. I think you've told each other enough. We're moving on now. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26533	I have to be someone to break up the party again, but I have to use two or three minutes. I didn't get a line, although Mr. Martinovic called me names, you didn't give me a line, but anyway. So we're against these laws and contracts, for the reasons I've stated. As for Kosovo and Metohija, just a little correction. I'm, and even the Minister's office can testify, I haven't given the labels here at all, I've said and I've commended that there's a lot of effort, that it's a visible effort to do something to preserve it with interpretational provisions, fus notes, etc. I just mentioned that I didn't happen to talk about cuneiform stew, that it could easily happen that those footnotes or flakes melt, so that it remains practically an international agreement with the Kosovo state or so on. Kosovo state. I have to correct it, it's not very important, but simply because of the public, if I wasn't a member of either the party or the Vuk Jeremic club, so that's another thing, I should apologize to my colleague Martinovic, but I did support his presidential candidacy and I think and now as well as yesterday that he was actually the best candidate for Serbia's president. I'm not in his party. I had a million objections to his campaign. And I'm saying, I'm not a member of his MP club, but I don't think he was a bad foreign minister. This is a famous example that often deals with a complaint, or international criminal court. I think it just went the way it went. It is difficult for Serbs, as we can see, to win in any court and achieve some greater justice. I think it's hypocritical to accuse anyone of asking a bad question, because that's why they lost. For information to colleagues and the public, in this process we lost by one vote, literally by one vote, and by the President of the Court or the President of the Court, by the way, from China, we withdrew from office and then he could not take part in the vote, for health reasons. That's how we lost that dispute. We were never closer, if I may say so, to win than at that time during that complaint that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had filed. As for Kosovo, Slavovic Ristic, also a mistake, he hasn't received a salary in months because he moved to work in the assembly, from the Serbian state. Of course there's a colleague here and here and on this side of your side who's with KIM. Of course they do. Health and education both receive salaries from Serbia's budget and that's also nice. Let's be honest and be honest and admit that this is the result of some past work and past struggles between some governments and some Prime Ministers or prime ministers who made mistakes for sure, but have done some good things and should be admitted to everyone. Someone lost their head, some lost power just because they were defending and trying to defend KIM and the state of Serbia in KIM. How come some more of those prerogatives that the state of Serbia has since Slobodan Milosevic, I must say, via Zoran Djindjic, Vojislav Kostunica and even Boris Tadic? I fear that some who are in power now, who have sworn that they will return Kosovo to the constitutional legal system of Serbia, have come to power because they have promised not to fight Kosovo and Metohija in this way, and they are not replicas, nor do we have a business opportunity to discuss Kosovo and Metohija in this assembly, but to schedule a special session to discuss it, say who has what they have, and not to compete here in replicas who is a larger Serb. I have never done that before, and I have always tried to respect democratic procedures and not steal and spend the time of MPs in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26534	Right on the replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26535	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, I apologize to Mr. Vukadinovic for saying he was an MP for Vuk Jeremic. But, let me, I am now in a mental dilemma, says Mr Vukadinovic – I supported Vuk Jeremic's candidacy, and I was present when Vuk Jeremic formed the party, but I am not a member of the political party Vuk Jeremic, nor am I an MP to Vuk Jeremic. Is that right, did I understand you well, Mr. Vukadinovic? There is a comedy by Branislav Nusic called "The Community Child". You seem to me, don't be offended, as a community child, you're nobody. Billy on the DSS list, says – I had nothing to do with the DSS, in 2012 was on the list as a representative of Vlaska National Minority – says I am not Vlah, I am a Serb. I did support Vuk Jeremic's candidacy, but I have nothing to do with Vuk Jeremic. And whose are you, Mr. Vukadinovic? Tell me, which policy, which parties, which personalities do you support in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Whose are you? You are not of the Kostunicas; you are not of the Wolf of Jeremiah. Whose are you? You represent yourself. When you already support, or have already supported Vuk Jeremic's candidacy, which didn't go very well in those elections, it is that he beat Alexander Vukic by 5% of the vote, but it could have been better, however, it is one big political figure, I'm surprised he couldn't win any more votes. (Jorge Vukadinovic: He did not listen to me. He didn't listen to you. Possibly. Since you supported Vuk Jeremic's candidacy, don't forget Mr Vukadinovic, you who lectured us on Kosovo and Metohija, not only during Vuk Jeremic's time asked the International Court of Justice for an opinion, in a way that was harmful to the state interests of the Republic of Serbia, because you knew, don't now pretend to be ignorant, as little did we miss passing our opinion. You knew very well, not you personally, that Vuk Jeremic knew as foreign minister, the composition of a council of the International Court of Justice to decide and act in the case of the Republic of Serbia, and you knew in advance what the decision would be, but you bought the time, and you tried to deceive the citizens of Serbia, as reportedly, to seek protection from the International Court of Justice, and in fact you knew in advance what the outcome would be. That's one thing. The second thing, you defending Kosovo and Metohija, during Vuk Jeremic's mediation over Kosovo and Metohija, was taken over by EULEX, not UNMIK. So, you're you, you're the follow-up to that policy that demoted the UN mission in Kosovo and Metohija and transferred it to you, to such hatred, the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26536	Right on the replica of Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26537	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. First, let's clear up what's less important. I represent myself and my views with which in some reasonable evolution that hasn't changed in all these years. The attitudes that, by the way, were close to most of you sitting here in this assembly, not everyone, of course, but to the vast majority, and I believe the vast majority of Serbian citizens. It's about who I represent. So, yourself, and that someone appreciates me, someone doesn't, and that's what they're going to decide again to be another, and ultimately, the citizens themselves. As for Vuk Jeremic, I say, he didn't fall out of my sight, I think, and I repeat, he wasn't a bad minister, he could have been better, he wasn't a bad foreign minister, where we were lucky to have more and better than he was. As for the most important, so no one here, I'm the last one, someone to fight and call irresponsiblely, to arlaucate and call for war trumpets and all that. But, as you know, I'm here propagating tolerance and dialogue in parliament, and I've hardly ever insulted anyone, not even once mentioned your president or party, so you had no right, for the first time even on the line, and you got over the link. But it doesn't matter, it's not bad to get something straight like this. So, I said, and that's the second important thing I've said in this House in the past year and a half and what it's been remembered for, once I said what I had in your president's face when he was here, and he's of course everything to me. But the other thing is when I said, we all put together both the government and the opposition, because in order to put together one honest, quality, good government. And that's what I really think, and that's what the citizens of Serbia think, if that's what we can do. So let's look really for the point of addition, not for principle, not for false opposition, not to play the opposition. I know that most suits you one kind of opposition, or constructive, which actually does, tells what you want, in another way only, or some noisy, irresponsible, that you can resist it with your finger. Unfortunately, or fortunately, I am not one of the opposition, but I am always someone who can talk seriously and responsibly about everything, including Kosovo and Metohija, and also about the Chinese loan and the EU. So, not because I'm apriors against, but to see if it can be better. I repeat, and I end it, many here are in power just because they promised, or winked or somehow made it clear what they were going to do that the predecessors didn't want or shouldn't do. With all the mistakes these predecessors made, I say by Slobodan Milosevic via Zoran Djindjic, Vojislav Kostunica, and even Boris Tadic, whom we have jointly criticised, and we believed, for a reason. Unfortunately, some have done some of the things that Boris Tadic himself and that previous government and that Vuk Jeremic did not want, or dare, so now it seems, his struggle for Kosovo and Metohija... . I hope that, with all the mistakes you're making, sooner or later, you'll start talking a little more seriously about it and talking to the opposition, but not with this obsession that's your voice from your stomach, but really with the opposition that wants good to this country, and we don't agree with... .
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26538	Thank you. Right on the replica of Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26539	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since Mr Vukadinovic says he represents himself here, I will no longer answer for the word, I am a representative of a political party and I am not ashamed of it, a representative of the SNS parliamentary group and somehow does not feel like I am paving with a man who represents myself in the Assembly. With all due respect to his personality, but because of the citizens of Serbia, to know exactly what it is, according to WikiLeaks, Vuk Jeremic is asking the Americans to postpone the declaration so-called. The Republic of Kosovo, until Boris Tadic wins the election for the president of the Republic and until he takes the oath, you correct me if I am wrong. Boris Tadic took an oath as president of the Republic, if I am not mistaken at the February 15th 2008 meeting, the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina declared so-called. independence of the Republic of Kosovo. So that was at the time of Vuk Jeremic and your Wolf Jeremic asked his American friends to do it. One more thing, I don't know if you agree, since you support Vuk Jeremic, with his legal adviser, Vladimir Gajic, who said he supports the verdict against Ratko Mladic because I quote: "Ratko Mladic, a communist general who has struck the Serbian people."
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26540	We're done with the replicas. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26541	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, distinguished Madam Ministers, with their Socialist Movement associates, the People's United Peasants' Party will vote for these four laws in the voting day, because Serbia must work very intensively, to build up, to make up for what the villains who destroyed everything they got by 2012 almost ruined. All of this has to be made up. This debate in this House today has shown that, in fact, there is no division in parliament, especially in left-wings, right-wing, rusophiles, Europeans, skinny and fat ones, but a division of those who want to work exclusively and only in the interests of the Republic of Serbia and those who look exclusively at their own interest, considering some future elections, demeaning any move that this government makes with extraordinary effort, very carefully, very measured, so as not to make any mistake and failure, as they were done in the previous period. It would be wonderful if we didn't have to take loans, but that we can finance all of this from the budget, but it's quite logical that we talked about more times here, and when the finance minister was present, that we return from the budget the green loans that were concluded in other times, that we simply return them to more favourable loans, and such favourable conditions for the construction of water lines and sewerage in Knjižvac, Paracino, Vrbas and Kickindi, will simply know best that when the citizens of these cities are finished. They will know that they appreciate and respect all citizens of the Republic of Serbia when they are intensively moving towards the reconstruction of the railway, even if the initial work between Belgrade and Stara Pazova, because every little thing that we make useful right now is of immeasurable importance to the Republic of Serbia. What I particularly want to underline is that none of these agreements, nor anything this government of the Republic of Serbia has done, endangers the status of AP Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. That's what Serbian citizens need to know and I think they know all these stories, that we should wait now to establish full capacity of government in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, in order to build and do something according to the province, is really pointless, a complete notses. Serbs living in KIM, neither they want nor there are reasons, nor should they wait for any future time that will surely come, because the withdrawal of the next recognitions, and they come because the government is leading a very active policy, clearly tell us that KIM will remain an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, that it will be the AP in the exact same status as is foreseen in this Constitution, in the same rank as the AP Vojvodina. It is silenced that, in fact, one of the biggest nonsense, in fact, it is not nonsense, not even ignorance, but the evil intention of Vuk Jeremic, has put into question, not only the speed to meet the conditions for restoring the full capacity of the territory that is currently under Resolution 1244, under a slightly different jurisdiction, but also whether it will come into question. If they had stayed in power one day longer than in 2012, we would not have discussed today in this way how we talk about a certain near future time, when it comes to the status of AP Kosovo and Metohija, as it deserves, as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. Don't be surprised at the various comments here, malices, and the citizens of Serbia know that the Nis Clinical Centre was designed long ago in 2008-2009, and the stories of now passing through and opening a special door, so that equipment could be entered, the machines necessary for the operation of that Clinical Center. You know, it's inconceivable for them to work, unfortunately, it would have been better if it had been well designed, when it was designed in 2009, to do something useful, to get the machines in place. They were only opening doors all the time, breaking doors, to get machines out of the factory, to bring out equipment from our clinical centres, to destroy everything they touched, and it's no wonder if ZZ and ZZ concluded greens contracts with 10% of the monthly interest, which today Serbia has to still take credit from the budget instead of financing all these projects that we need to decide and support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26542	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26543	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, so here we are today to conclude this debate on the most important four agreements we had yesterday and today to discuss. What should be said is that they are, above all, in the interests of the citizens and the future of Serbia. It is completely incomprehensible today that we have had the opportunity to hear in the debate, that certain political parties call themselves movements or political parties, talk about sharing Serbia and that there is no need for infrastructure traffic to be connected at all. The development of a country and economy cannot be done without the development of infrastructure and traffic. All EU countries, in a 16 plus one format, see China as a strategic partner with regard to the infrastructure and the projects it implements. There is no country in the world that has the most modern possibility that, as soon as possible, in the most qualitative way, they create high-speed railways and simply reach certain standards. Many European countries, such as France, are racing, but China is today the most prosperous country in this regard. It is a great honor to have an investor in the state and have a certain opportunity to work with them on such projects. Because it's a simple ticket to the future and our children and the state of Serbia. Therefore, it is completely incomprehensible for individuals today who have had the opportunity to tell us that the railroad should not go, I don't know, through Raska, should not go to a particular side. He should go everywhere. But what has been drawn so far has been drawn up with national plans and programs. After all, Serbia's Railways have put all their plans, together with the Ministry of Transport and Construction, on the site and there is one map of Serbia containing all the projects, in a completely transparent way, which are to be started, which are envisaged and agreed. This is what all Serbian citizens can see, meaning how much this government has, how much the ministry has worked on these projects, and ultimately only a ratification of the agreement comes when you come to the fact that it is framed in one financial way and signed by the two states. So it's a very difficult, hard work and requires a great effort from all institutions, state authorities and even representatives of the political representatives of the state. So, really, on today, when we vote for these agreements, we should think about opening our economy, developing our society for the next 20 and 30 years. On the other hand, what is needed to further develop, i.e. to reconstruct, is a water and sewerage network in the Republic of Serbia, and it is clearly shown by KfW, otherwise the state German bank, which was signed under the agreement of the two governments in 2014, very much done in this regard that only 70% are loans, and 30% donations in that expert sense, to help Serbia that what has not been done since the 1980s is now done in a completely single reform way. I have to tell you that so far we've had projects completed in eight cities, when I'm talking about 2012, and that the new 15 municipalities, to this day, have entered these programs. What is evident is that the interest rates, which have been approved for these projects since 2012 each year, have dropped more and more according to each programme. They amounted to 6.17% in 2012 to be 1.1% in 2017. It means a lot to replace asbestos pipes in one Paracina, to reduce the amount of arsenic in the Kickindian plumbing, so you simply provide the health of people living in these cities. Of course, it is necessary to provide for the booklet and other cities that are in this programme, which we are saying that 70% of drinking water is being drained from the net itself. We thus achieve a fully efficient way of functioning the municipal services, but we also do what, ultimately, the Fiscal Council said in its reports, that we need to invest more and more in programmes that raise the quality of life when it comes to environmental protection. What I think we talked about today, these are contracts that apply to the Transport Community at all. A debate in the part of whether Kosovo is one as an entity of a particular continent has turned around or not, has Serbia not thought about how it can approach participation and signing at all by international organisations, and I think it is one floscule that is trying from some parties to repeat itself constantly as a mantra. Serbia has an unequivocal view of this, and it has been the same since 2012. There is a way to sign international agreements. The government always brings instructions to sign it. Based on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' instructions, there's always this footnote. Whether or not it bothers someone, it is mandatory because it shows the integrity of the integrity and territorial unity, when we talk about the Republic of Serbia. It means that Kosovo does not exist at all as a special part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia and there is no dilemma about it at all. Anyone who tries to initiate this in his discussions as one part of possibly some recognition by the Republic of Serbia in terms of Kosovo shows only one indignation and attacks on the Serbian government in one process where he wants to solve problems affecting people living in Kosovo and Metohija. What to say is that Serbia no longer wants to lose citizens, does not want to and loses simply to politics, when we talk about Kosovo and Metohija. We want to win this, we want our people to live peacefully and peacefully there, that the simple community of Serb municipalities live and that we know that children living there sleep peacefully. In the interest of all this, each agreement will show a principled political view of how we view the Brussels Agreement and how we behave in international organisations. That is why, to conclude, today's four agreements are important for Serbia. They are a feature of the leadership of foreign and internal policy and of the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic and Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Ana Brnabic, as well as of all the MPs who simply make up this assembly majority. I think in voting day, which is today, we're going to have a chance to make a positive statement about all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-24-0.u26544	Thank you. As no longer reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, I am concluding a joint single search on the drafts of the law referred to in paragraphs 1 to 4 of the agenda. According to Article 87(5), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 24 November 2017, starting at 14.00 a.m., as the Day of Vote on the agendas of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 129 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for working and deciding. Before we move on to a decision on the bill's proposals, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(3), paragraphs 4 and 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing public borrowing, conclusion and confirmation of international contracts, by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Treaty establishing the Transport Community, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 129, v - one, abstention - one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 4 submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, who is scheduled for this law to enter into force on the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for- 130, against – two, abstentions – no. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. Since we have come to an agreement on the early entry into force of the law, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Treaty establishing the Transport Community, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for- 130, v – two, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill, in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement for a credit for the privileged buyer for the Modernisation and Reconstruction Project of the Hungarian-Serbian railway link in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, for the Belgrade centre-Stara Paz section of the government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance, as a borrower, and the Chinese Export-Import Bank, as a lender, with a correction, in general. I ask my fellow Members to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for- 130, against – one, abstention – two. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement between KfW, Frankfurt in May, and the Republic of Serbia, which is the finance minister for the Water Supply and sewerage programme in Serbia's medium size municipalities, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for- 130, against – no one, abstention – two. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill, in general. I ask my fellow Members to plead. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty on Amendments and Supplements of Financial Contracts 23.761, 24.745, 25.002, 25.198, 25.497, 25.610, 25.872, 81.657 and 82.640 between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for- 130, against – three, with abstention – no. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 23 November 2017, at 10 hours and 41 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 86(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no three abstentions for – two against – three abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 23 November 2017, at 10 o'clock and 46 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Mr Alexander Jerkov, at a session on 23 November 2017, at 10 o'clock and 51 minutes, pointed to a violation of Articles 88, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – two against – one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 23 November 2017, at 13 hours and 17 minutes, pointed to injuries. 27th and 107th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 23 November 2017, at 13 hours and 25 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 116. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please allow the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the fourth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. (The session is over at 2:15 p.m. )
