ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19266	I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 to delete, because I believe that this law and any law relating to land should not be in the procedure, i.e. to put all moratoriums on all laws relating to any land, whether agricultural, urban, construction, water or any other land. Because there's some order. The order is next, we haven't done a state diameter since 1981, we don't actually know who owns the land for which we already find ways to sell. That's not how it works. There's some order, there's a Restitution Act, which should be passed, to return the kidnapped property, "absolutely cursed". So a valid Restitution Act should be passed, property returned to people, land conversion should be carried out. I'm asking my colleagues not to make any money, let them take the floor, I don't mind, and I'm asking the president to respond. So we can know what kind of land we're trying to sell, build up, kidnap from Serbian citizens. On this occasion, I urge the citizens of Serbia to wake up, to realize that the process of stealing any land is under way, regardless of the purpose of the land, because if they do not wake up immediately, they will wake up as vases in a foreign country, and that will be a very painful awakening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19267	The word has the People's MP Dejan Šulkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19268	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Agriculture Act. I believe that this move by the authorities is not something that represents Serbia's development needs, but is a consequence of Serbia's commitment to pass the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in 2008. Given that there is a great controversy, to say political pimming in the course of a principled debate by the government and a part of the opposition, I remind you that the draft law was directed by the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, i.e. Boris Tadic, and it seems to me that the current government, God knows how much it does not want, while the DSS and often named Vojislav Kostunica were against signing, that we do not remember how and who signed it, while the DSS MPs then voted against the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement. Then Serbia committed itself to gradually harmonising the legislation within four years, to enable EU citizens to acquire property over real estate and, it said, to ensure the same treatment as its citizens. As for the basis of which the bill promoter, Article 97 point 9) and Article 12, is called upon, I think they are inadequate, because these points speak of, among other things, sustainable development, the system of environmental protection, plant and animal life, the organisation on the use of space from scientific and technological development, while the same member's point of view is completely neglected 1), which has been prescribed that Serbia is governing relations with other states and international organisations, which is now, the case is, it is, it is, to ensure, the norm is imperative, sovereignty, independence, territorial, integrity and security of the Republic of Serbia, which is also at risk in the course of the negotiating process and everything that is parallel, I would say and conditionally, is played with the process of negotiating with the EU. As did the then Act on Confirmation of the SAA of the then government, and so did this law amending the Law on Agriculture, as an act of this authority is the result of the foreign policy orientation that the EU has no alternative, so if it had to resort to an emergency act, and this bill is an emergency act, it should be equalising the treatment of EU citizens with Serbian citizens on property legal issues related to EU membership, as other or most EU member states have done. If already believed here, and in Europe it is said that Serbia has such a perspective, with certain conditions and uncertain prospects of the EU, Serbia's perspectives and on this issue, Serbia is acting on the principle "I do not ask what costs, and it will cost us dearly". Under the law itself, he essentially allows the transport of agricultural land, i.e. the sale of agricultural land in private property to EU citizens, and that is to be said, instead of trying to present itself, to prevent the conditions provided for, therefore, by delaying it. It is not prevented, it is allowed only under certain conditions, because if it really wanted to be prevented, then Article 1 point 4) should not have changed, which literally reads – "the owner of agricultural land cannot be a foreign natural person, or a legal person". If it was to prevent foreigners from obtaining property on agricultural land, nothing should have changed in this article, i.e. it should have been tightened by legal persons. The conditions laid down for foreign citizens to acquire property over agricultural land in private property are mostly prescribed by the provisions of the laws governing the acquisition of property over state agricultural land when it comes to citizens of the Republic of Serbia with some additional restrictions, and in that sense it is not realistic that any citizen of any EU Member State decides to live in Serbia in a rented land for ten years, to pay 20-30 000 euros for this rental, to invest in a agricultural mechanism of 20-30 thousand euros, to process land for a minimum of three years, if nothing changes, if the conditions do not increase and if he wishes to buy everything up to two hectares of land that can be bought in central Serbia by up to six thousand euros. You'll agree that's not very stimulating. This bill only puts off the traffic of land to foreign citizens in private property, but that foreign citizen as the owner of capital, as the owner of a legal person, can buy in the privatisation process, and this has been neglected in the previous period, and regardless of these concerns nothing is now changing, which I would support, can buy some agricultural-industry combination that basically implies several thousand privatisations, perhaps tens of thousands of hectares of the country. In addition, under certain conditions, with some calls for new programmes, it can count on the incentive funds of 10,000 euros per job. For 10,000 ecres in central Serbia today, three to four hectares of arable agricultural land can be bought. For irony to be greater, however, EU Member States' citizens are even with our citizens, when it comes to the two-hectare limit, because agricultural production in these conditions in Serbia can no longer be gained from buying two hectares of land in ten years. On the other hand, when we talk about equating, the question is what is it really about and what is the same treatment when the EU is constantly, therefore, especially through the negotiating process, and I would say that according to order and order of the SAA, it exposes Serbia to one-sided conditions both for its own, I would say for someone else's account. Should we even talk about it when some state officials occasionally, I would say, dive tears in front of the public and complain about the pressures they face in the negotiation process? So, to conclude, only by giving up on the amendments to the law can the aim set by the proposer by this bill be achieved. When it comes to legal persons, we have heard from the legislator that this proposal is part of an imaginary plan to prevent the numbering few so-called. domestic tycoons are left without competition in the announced, therefore certain privatisation of agricultural and industrial combinations, thus allowing foreign legal entities to be their competition. The previous question is what should be sold in the first place and whether these foreign investors are really going to be foreign or whether they are going to buy domestic tycoons with domestic tycoons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19269	Thank you. You've wasted your time. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19270	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendments to the SRS are in line with our position, which we have put forward regarding the draft law amending the Law on Agricultural Land. Our view is that this law should not be passed, because it does not make any sense with this proposal, and today probably already by law, when you adopt it, what you in public want to present will not be achieved. We have therefore suggested that Article 1 of this proposal be deleted, as well as with the other members, because it is a great deception that you will, by law, amend the SAA. It's just not possible. What is a problem for Serbian citizens, what is a problem for the state of Serbia, what is a problem for our peasant is contained in the SAA. The agreement obliges the state of Serbia to sell foreign agricultural land to foreigners. We don't think it's supposed to be done. We think and claim that this is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore this law is completely unnecessary for you. The fact that you cheat on the public of stories that this way you will prevent the sale of agricultural land to foreigners will soon prove to be incorrect and people will see that it was really just a hoax. After all, in the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is why our amendment is not accepted is exactly what we want to achieve. You say you do not accept the amendment for the reasons that the provisions of the Law on Confirmation of the SAA between European countries etc. prescribed to allow EU citizens to acquire property rights on agricultural land in the Republic of Serbia. So, only if we don't have an SAA we can protect our agricultural land from selling that land to foreigners. There is no other way, and that is why we insisted in the debate, and we have talked at press conferences several times before about harmfulness, of course, counting both on the day and the day that the assembly was discussed in that assembly's meeting on this SAA. Most of the MPs who would vote for this law, i.e. quite a number, were absolutely against the adoption, or acceptance of the famous SAA. It is amazing that the arguments they made at the time are now silenced or turned to make it sound like something useful and that the state of Serbia is benefiting from it. You yourself, Minister, have said that it is not good and that it would not be good for Serbia to come out of this agreement because the agreement is in the interest of Serbian citizens. I would ask you to give us just one concrete example of what is positive for Serbia, for the citizens of Serbia, for the Serbian peasant in this agreement? Perhaps the import of goods, agricultural products from EU countries without customs, and then the competition with the products of our peasants, and then we have cheaper import products of much less quality and then people resort? It's hard to live, there's no money, so people defect, buy it, and what our peasant makes can't be sold. Is that maybe an advantage? Is it an advantage that foreigners will be able to buy land in Serbia? Of course, we accept and repeat, it doesn't start with you, but you were expected to end this. You know, you're the officials of the ruling coalition. The ruling coalition parties have discussed in all previous election processes that Serbia's priority, the interests of Serbian citizens, has turned out to be 100 per cent of the DS policy in all areas, including this one. So I suggest that this amendment be accepted, that the other amendments be accepted. If you sincerely want to protect our peasant, to prevent the sale of agricultural land to foreigners, then you can only do it in a way to initiate Serbia's exit procedure from the SAA. Of course, it means Serbia's exit from negotiations with the EU. We argue that this is the only way and only the right way for Serbia to actually get out of serious problems, both political and economic and whatever you want, to intend on this senseless path and finally turn to Serbia, Serbia's citizens and our national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19271	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19272	My colleagues have already said more, less than a few important things, which is why I have submitted this amendment, and you can see that people who are not from the same parliamentary groups are basically in agreement. About the basic intensity, we agree with most MPs from the parliamentary majority, and possibly with the legislator, who has remained in debt some questions and I hope he will take advantage of the opportunity to answer now. Generally, when someone proposes to "be deleted", it does not mean that it is destructive, does not mean that it is negative. If you are erasing a bad solution, something you consider a bad solution, it is a very constructive proposal, since there have been such remarks by the congregation's majority. On the other hand, later on, me and my colleagues have proposed some concrete formulations of amendments that may, hopefully, be accepted, and obviously will not be accepted, this is a radical measure, I mean, it is not radical, but it is radical from the point of view of the assembly's majority, because it really means a suspension of the SAA and a suspension of negotiations with the EU. I was against that SAA at a time when it was brought and when it was negotiated and after that and I am today. Of course there are good things. This is problematic, this is bad. Now the congregation's majority has tried to satisfy, in some ways, the point, to please the EU and to satisfy its citizens, or those who, which is the vast majority, are against selling agricultural land to foreigners. I don't think it's going to work either, because the point is wrong, dear colleagues. Let's stop the sale, sale or actual sale of state land. A little private agricultural well-being of 2 ha will not ruin, nor will foreigners push to buy under such conditions, of course they will not push. I think this is one replacement thesis. We'll talk about it later. We simply throw dust in the eyes with this law, do something that the EU will not welcome, but will not hurt them much, they will not know at all that you have skillfully balanced, as it is said, to satisfy your own, i.e.. our agricultural producers and the EU, but because the EU actually knows that it is their large producers, it is Tennis and many others, as our minister says "Teniz", as you have accentuated it professionally, therefore, that is the problem. It hurts, and hundreds of thousands of acres of agricultural land that, through combinations or otherwise, actually goes into the hands of foreigners or tycoons. I know you're going to say, I don't mind that this process is in progress and that the previous authorities involved, yes, of course, but you stop them. Here, Mr. Minister, you have an opportunity to respond to these or any other amendments. What happened to Mr. Teniz? What about the PKK? I finished my presentation on Friday. Here, show on the PKK's case how we care about agricultural land against we're alienating agricultural land, not by trying to stop some little Peri, Ziki, Miki from Vojvodina or central Serbia from selling its 2 ha church and maybe earning something. The point is, and I'm ending up with this hand, the point is to prevent what else we can prevent or recover, if we can get something back that's scattered in previous years from state land, and let's not worry about this hectare or two, or three that some small domestic farmer would sell to a Hans and Pierre if someone like that were to find interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19273	The word is Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19274	The reason to delete this is because this whole debate on amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land is completely devoid of meaning. Practically, this member is not getting rid of anything. This is one big marketing story to make it look like it's preventing the sale, that is, the giving of agricultural land to foreigners. Simply, what today is a legal solution, after these changes will be the same thing. Putting these conditions for foreign citizens is practically the same situation we had before we introduced this law. The central problem in Serbia is not a matter of natural persons who may be able to buy some 2 ha of land in ten years' time under some different conditions, as it is equivalent to not being able to. The central issue is the use of state agricultural land. So, I offer the government 30% of the country in all municipalities in Serbia to large foreign investors who are supposed to give the country to work under very poor conditions per country of Serbia. We have many examples, from "Tenis" whom we mention, via "Al Ravapheda", through what was happening in Karadjordjevo with them, "Bačka" Sivac etc. This is the central problem where the country is taken from our farmers, our landowners and given to large foreign investors, often domestic tycoons who, through these calls from foreign investors, practically indirectly come to the country. This is the wrong agricultural policy. These are the things that should be discussed, not a pointless debate for three days, about an amendment to the law that practically solves nothing. The land would have to give to our agricultural landowners, and sell it to them under good conditions, limit their state-owned property that can also be purchased to 20, 30, 50 ha, to use positive experiences in Denmark and the Netherlands, to create cooperatives. It's a agricultural policy. So the essential question here is not the issue of these amendments to the law, but it's actually a question of a solution to who uses state agricultural land. So the SNS gives our country to strangers. This law is trying to camouflage, it doesn't solve anything. We should get back to the point and talk about this disputed provision that the DJ will abolish when and if he gets the trust of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Our country in municipalities, 30% of the best country should not be given to anyone other than domestic agricultural holdings and help create a large system of cooperatives that will help them market their products. We call on you to stop this pointless debate and to move on to the essence, namely to discuss the abolition of a member who gives 30% of the best country in Serbia, at the decision of the ministry and the government, to foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19275	The word has a minister, then a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19276	Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, I would like to say a few things in the context of the response to the amendment that is in the same text - is deleted. The essence of the whole issue of amending the Law on Agricultural Land and the goal to achieve is contained in this article. I think that in the previous days we have had an argumentable debate and I am very glad that many people participated in all this, and this results from the need that Serbian citizens, especially farmers through their associations, have asked the ministry to resolve this provision in this very way. I just want to say for the public one thing, that, in this way, if there were no of this provision, as proposed, we would come into a situation where we can't fix what's left in the SAA as a problem matter and just by amending this Agricultural Land Act we're doing repairs and trying to bring the matter to the table for the next 10 years, if someone meets the conditions, only then can it come to a situation, possibly when it comes to agricultural land in private property, to get to it. A question had just been asked about the positive from the SAA based on agriculture. Here, you'll have an opportunity in a month, two days' time's first call for IPARD funds, which are actually funds that will be used by agricultural producers. The question has been raised – what else was positive from the SAA? Well, I didn't see anyone standing around waiting for work for a visa. These are the things that are facts that no one can deny. What's definitely, this isn't a pointless debate. She was wanted by farmers. The government sees it as a priority, to fix in this way everything left unsaid by the SAA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19277	The word has Vladimir Orlic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19278	It'll be two minutes enough, Madam President. It's perfectly appropriate to call for a lack of pointless debate. Come on, the one who said it to get away. I think it's some elemental minimum. I'm gonna use these two minutes to look back at everything we've heard so far, because it looks like a terrible thing to each other. So there's a lot of weird thesis about topics that aren't even on the agenda. So, once again, what aren't we discussing today? We're not arguing, and we just heard about the lease. We don't do this at all through this bill. It's weird that someone hasn't figured it out by now. We're not discussing state land, it's amazing that someone attended this session and hasn't concluded it yet. We're not discussing a change in the SAA, for God's sake. Read the explanation, just look back to the point so far. We prescribe conditions under which we will fulfill our obligation. We will find a way to ensure that the obligation is fulfilled, our European path is not compromised, at the same time protected for our citizens of agricultural producers. So a little concentration isn't scary. What else are we not discussing? We're not discussing legal faces. Here it writes well – for individuals, or citizens in the context of private property. It's totally amazing, and that's why we said comedically to mosses, and on Thursday and Friday, what do we hear as an explanation? So, of those who are called Europeans, who are in the words of Europe, whose mouth is full of Europe, we listen -- now it's going to be a hoax, now we're going to become vases, we're going to be ruined by those who come from Europe to buy everything alive. That's what those who are supposed to be European say. Those who are against European integration say – we must prevent the implementation of the SAA. And then, in the same explanation, they tell us things like -- this destimulates the investor to come, they need to be relieved, in this way they won't do it. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Rewind the tape, listen to yourself. Ludi, you can't do that. If we're gonna take things seriously, it definitely can't. We can talk about how our farmers work with the EU today, but first of all, please know what it is and get serious. By the way, you didn't just miss the session and the theme you missed the call. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19279	Vladimir Djuric? (Saša Radulovic: I answered. To discuss the amendment? Then let's take it in a row. First, the People's MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19280	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. Only if you let me have a little dipression on what happened on Friday, as I see it, and now it repeats itself. You are someone who understands the culture and the art of this country as president of the Assembly, I know it with confidence. I would ask you to fail the stand ap comedians, those in an attempt, to prevent them from abuse of the pay phone, as the predecessor did, and to comment in such a way on the presentations of the MPs. As far as this amendment is concerned, Mr. Minister, and the expropriation of Article 1. It's necessary for the simple reason here is some kind of prank. In fact, the point is that, regardless of what the law refers to natural persons, foreigners will take the shortcut to agricultural land within a shorter period of time. You know very well, because every foreign citizen who appears today at the Business Registers Agency, if he submits valid documentation within five days, will receive a document that will form a company and as the owner of a company, will be able to buy not only two, but more hectares. The key is what our colleague Mr Krasic was talking about, and he'll probably do it again today, and here I am taking that opportunity. The country's constitutional principle is being trampled. What does that mean? Under the Constitution of our country, foreigners are allowed to buy and own real estate. It's a building, it's an apartment, it's a facility, it's certainly not a property that's an unrepeated resource, a resource that no one can bring back and that's going to go into the hands of those who are going to be walking on our hurricanes forever. It is now clear that nearly 30,000 hectares have been thrown around by foreigners who are eager to come to Serbia. In the end, as legal persons, they already have over 30,000 hectares in their possession. Why are you doing something to Mr Nedimovic, which neither EU members have done, and Serbia will never, I am confident, enter the EU. Rather, the bureaucratic and hostile towards Serbia will fall apart than you will enter there. How is it possible that a Hungarian constitution forbids the sale of land? How is it possible for a Poland to put a moratorium for seven plus three years, one Slovakia seven plus four, and how did you not have the experience of Romania, where for such petty money almost devoid of foreigners bought 800,000 acres of land, an alarm to ask yourself why we should do it? Why give what is most valuable in Serbia? You don't think these factories for which you pay out subsidies per job, 10-11 thousand euros more than the Serbian country? In the end, at the time of communist Josip Broz, Serbia's deagrarianization has just led us to the point, whether it is so, Mr. Minister, in Srem and with me in Šumadija, in all of Serbia, that the Serbian peasant falls to the lowest branches, that we have a situation for people to drive over 70 years old tractors that they bought 30-40 years ago, and instead of focusing on that and saying, no, it can't be that way, but to give young people a chance to go to abandoned Serbian villages or to have their ancestors to start a business with loans and subsidies, you run into the arms of those who destroy Serbian agriculture, who have filled us with unquality goods because they are allowed to do so, and the state loses over half a billion euros annually from unpaid customs, and thus systematically destroys Serbian peasants and Serbian agriculture. That is why it is necessary to delete this member. After all, this law is a completely unaccountable move by the government that is only trying to join the EU that sets us up with growing conditions. In the end, what you're going to do more than take KIM away from us, so how are you going to tell some Serbian peasant from Filipino, Shilov, or from Prilužina, or from Plemetina, that I don't order other villages in KIM, in cities and municipalities, who can't come to their country and process it, because it's occupied precisely by those who set these conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19281	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19282	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, there are sayings: knowledge has limits, no knowledge. (Zoran Krasic: What is this? There's another chat window. Obviously, this proverb is correct, watching members of the party of the former regime. As far as agriculture and land are concerned, I called it a joint criminal enterprise. Let's get this straight, there's a bankruptcy manager here who's been talking about selling state agricultural land. We banned it in 2015. He could have read it, but it's obvious he's not being read it. This is also prohibited and state agricultural land can only be purchased by the natural persons of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who have a residence for five years, who have a agricultural land that has less than 30 hectares and can only buy 20 hectares from the state if their local self-government allows it. So we've already done that. This second part concerns private property, i.e. private agricultural land. That restitution they were talking about can't be any subject of conversation. Only, if they don't think, that one injustice should be righted by another injustice, to take away property from some private, to return property to some former private man from that battle for the Daedinas. So it's almost impossible to restitution tie to this law. Restitution is made from state agricultural land which is not the subject of this law. Furthermore, when they talk about restitution, members of the former regime's parties should know that the first two Prime Ministers, although we had a contract with the people that we were going to restitution natural, who called themselves the first two democratic ones, which I can agree with, had just entered into the nationalised property that was subject to restitution. The damaged lady, Darinka Talovic of Tolstoy, her house, which she received in court, as the subject of restitution, was won by the former first Prime Minister. The Jaksic family in Krcedin had 52 hectares, their ancestor was shot, property was nationalised, and as we know, my fellow farmer, the other alleged democratic prime minister, moved in. Those who have almost stolen the eyes of the people in their heads talk today about injustice and selling. This is about how some government of Vojislav Kostunica has been congratulated, etc. That's not quite true. The government of Vojislav Kostunica negotiated the agreement and ratified it in November 2007. Božidar Djelic, the next year, let the minister correct me, just sign what was already negotiated and what was ratified in parliament in 2008. So they act like they don't even allow us to correct all the mistakes they've made. In principle, if they were in line with the promises we made to the citizens in 2000, the country would belong to those who were processing it, not to those who were processing us in the style of "MK Group", "Delta", etc. When they sold everything that could be sold, when I said they'd already sold what belonged to people as eyes out of their heads, they'd now come up with some ex-post mind and now they're defending something they sold in huge surfaces. They sold 300,000 hectares of the country for less than 50m euros, which is less than a one-year lease. Apparently, they wanted the SAA to resell this land very easily to foreign individuals, and now they're bothered by this new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19283	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19284	I'll use the time of the party's authorized representative. I'll pick up where we left off on Friday. If you feel that this bill fulfils the obligation made by someone else in the SAA, then just to remind you that this obligation means that Serbia will allow citizens of EU Member States to acquire ownership of the property in Serbia with full and comprehensive application of the existing procedures. You then say - these changes, i.e. these amendments and additions to the agricultural land law are an act that allows you to acquire property, and then a mental error arises where you say you have extended the deadline by another ten years. You'll have to sort it out yourself, because you're leading Serbia to the EU here, and you say, we're not fulfilling the former regime's obligation, we've already jumped them, in ten years I can't do anything, so if I can do something, it'll be two acres, and they'll have to be on the lease first, but be calm, we've been rowing them. Identify yourself for which variant you are. I am glad you say so, because you are also aware that the SAA cannot be applied and should not be applied, or you can apply it if you need to take that money from the EU, and as far as some of our obligations are concerned, do not apply it. Be a bit of a jerk to them. We must somehow charge 100 billion damages that they did during the bombing of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. If it's a function of war damage collection, it's an honor. You have an obligation to pass that service law. You probably don't even know what I'm talking about, and that's some standard where they're going to put a lot of pressure on you. Here you need to regulate the right to business inhabiting foreigners in Serbia, foreigners from the EU, and you need to allow freedom of cross-border provision of services. These are far more dangerous things in the Republic of Serbia than those you have done so far. Of course, you will not go directly with the Service Act, but in each individual law you are installing something that represents that obligation. It's all bad moves, I have to distract you. I'll give you one topic to think about. I agree that it does not have much of a touch point with agricultural land, but if you are already clearing up the mess you found in the country, then consult the city's defence attorney, Belgrade, who has been running the "Luke Belgrade" case for many years over 200 and some hectares of city building land. The procedure expresses the view of the authorities that something cannot be the subject of privatisation and cannot be subject to private property. I don't want to believe that Gilas was doing it in revenge for Milan Beck, because he got another 200 acres of exclusive land next to the hall, so you don't recognize his property with his legal personality. Take that item, and think about what your general legal position is about this. That court case is stuck somewhere in court. What are you waiting for? I don't know what's waiting, but obviously there's an attitude that city building land can't just be alienated by investment funds in some kind of privatisation process. I would just draw your attention to the bankruptcy proceedings where some real estates have been disintegrated, where bankruptcy managers have proved to be interpreting clear rights, hostage rights and others, where they have devastated the bankruptcy mass and made it possible for some private or natural persons or legal persons, but they are still private, acquired property on something that is good. I have to warn those who talk about reciprocity and reciprocity. Let the state recognise with its regulations the rights of foreigners, some states, within a multilateral agreement, exercise mutual recognition of the right to acquire property, and some countries do so by bilateral agreement and should not interfere with the notion of reciprocity that exists in this law. I must draw attention to the fact that our Constitution very clearly prescribes - a foreign natural person in Serbia's territory under the conditions of reciprocity can acquire property over real estates only by inheritance, the only right in which foreigners are equal with the citizen of the Republic of Serbia is the right to inherit. For everything else, the Constitution and the law make a difference. For what? Property has its own goal, has its own purpose, and it serves to do some work. Since this is a very important economic resource for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitution and the laws provide for in accordance with international standards, I must tell you, a series of restrictions or special things called terms and procedures. An existing member of the Agricultural Land Act that you are changing is constitutional. Answer one question – how is it possible that a constitutional ban on the sale of agricultural land to foreigners and how is it added that it can go according to the SAA to foreign nationals of EU Member States constitutionally again? What happened? The constitution hasn't changed in the meantime. There was a ban, there was no ban, and one situation and another is constitutional. That's impossible, people. The Assembly under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not have the authority and does not have this capacity of discretion to decide on its own and to give in to the will of the National Assembly what it will say, but there are constitutional restrictions. You simply have no answers to 25 logical and mental questions. This, of course, is going to do a media thing, but I don't see any use or any account – so we're not going to stick to the law and the Constitution as a drunken vessel, because fulfilling the legal obligations and respect and the application of our laws show that we are far from the legality of the work of the national authorities. If our state authorities were to behave so legally, probably administrative courts wouldn't have cases. Look for yourself, almost every other falls to the administrative court for the obvious violation of the law by the competent state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19285	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19286	Thank you, Chairman. Article 106 – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Madam Chairman, we've been listening for almost 10 minutes from the previous speaker all sorts of things. Literally, everything and everything, just not what's on the agenda today. I highly appreciate the theoretical knowledge of the previous speaker, but what we've heard has nothing to do with the bill, and at least with the amendment we're discussing. I ask you, Madam Chairman, call the MP's group of previous speakers, have a assembly hall, have the opportunity to organise a press conference, let them hold a press conference to their will, let them present their political views, that should be done, that's good, that's healthy, but, please, don't come into the situation to use a session of the National Assembly to discuss amendments to some political views. I understand and for their frustration, they were beaten to pieces Friday by the head of our parliamentary group and the deputy head of our parliamentary group, in a reasoned debate...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19287	Please, just in the context of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you are now not spreading the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19288	I thank and appeal that you prevent it from coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19289	Do you want to vote? (No) I thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19290	Thank you. No rhetoric or attempt to demean MPs from the opposition by the ruling majority cannot hide the essence that we have stated here. So this law is really unnecessary, that is, no changes to the law are necessary. Under current law, foreign individuals from the EU cannot buy the country, and according to these changes, it is replaced by one system where at 10 years, two hectares, practically, the same situation. We haven't changed anything. What we should be dealing with and what is the essence of what is being avoided is that the state country is given to foreigners for use – 30% of the best oraries in Vojvodina are given to foreign corporations, such as "Tenis", such as "Al Ravafed", without any benefit to our farmers. So instead of the things we're discussing, which are unnecessary and just a marketing attempt by the SNS to hide that they're giving the country to foreigners and that in fact this change of law doesn't protect anything, we should talk about changing that controversial member, about what we should do for farmers. We're wasting time on things that aren't important, and we're not dealing with the essence. The minister is wrong. Farmers don't ask for a change of law like this. The main problem for farmers is that the state country, I repeat, is 30 per cent, by government decisions, given to foreign investors. This is the central problem of our farmers. Their problem is also drought, their problem is irrigation, their problem is why we don't have cooperatives and all the other stuff. Their problem is why we allow shoppers and buyers to destroy, say, raspberries and others. What we're discussing today, what we discussed in the previous two days when the Assembly took place, is not the central problem of our farmers. No rebuke of the ruling majority MPs who are trying to demean what the opposition MPs are saying cannot hide this substance. Well, I could, for example, talk about whose family's foot-and-mouth disease, who robbed the stock reserves that Zeka's companies had fed up with a variety of creditors, but what would that be like to discuss and the exposure? If I told you right away, it would be like the presentation of Marijan Rističević. I won't do it. Also, counterpart Orlic must not mention MPs from the ruling majority when he talks about their presentation, hoping it can hide, or conceal, the right to replication. And it continues to be explored every time, over and over again. I will give him the opportunity again and mention him by name, because I am talking about his presentation and I hope that he will have the courage to, when he talks about the presentations of opposition MPs, at least have enough dignity and honesty to mention them by name, so that the chairman doesn't have to pretend to know that he doesn't know that he has to rephrase. So the point of all this is that this law is unnecessary. That's why he's a member - he's wiped out. What we should talk about is why the state, or why does the SNS give the country to the processing of foreigners, 30% of the country in all municipalities? That's the central problem. And whether it's about buying land from foreigners or giving them 30 years on very favourable terms for them and harmful to our agriculture, it's really not a theme that interests farmers. So, they're interested in why we give this world's Tennessees in the first place, and we turn our farmers into a rental workforce, and we give them the most valuable resource? It just shouldn't work like that. So this is the point -- we're dealing with irrelevant talks about a law that shouldn't have been on the agenda because it doesn't change anything. And under current law, natural persons, EU citizens cannot buy a country in Serbia. Under this law, only conditions are put in place that are practically impossible to meet. The central question is that we talk about why the country is being leased, what about drought, why not create cooperatives, why don't we support domestic farmers, why shoppers and shoppers kill farmers? That's what we need to talk about. That is why the amendment – it is deleted, to indicate that this is indeed an unnecessary debate, the marketing move of the SNS, to show, for God's sake, how it protects the interests of our farmers. The SNS stands for giving the country, and it's a huge part of the state country, for foreigners to process it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19291	Replica, the word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19292	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Because of the public, I want to say a few things. What has just been stated that this law is unnecessary, this law is necessary through, to bring it in as soon as possible, for one simple reason – in order to fix things that are not fully completed by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. If it were unnecessary and as you say, we would have caused a major political damage to the Republic of Serbia. If that's your goal, then I can understand you, but I can't understand. As far as needs and necessity are concerned, the only thing that is needed is in the context of what was said a little while ago and about the lease of agricultural land, to take the stenographic notes from Thursday and Friday, where we talked about it and exactly how much, what, and where the agricultural land was leased. And what you need is to inform yourself in that way, because you haven't been there for two days, when we talked about these topics. I'm sorry, several times, and I'm grateful to those MPs who gave me the opportunity to talk about it, it's been a great pleasure to talk about it and to take things completely out of the open, out of transparency or someone else's need to present things in an untransparent way. The fact is that this is how we fix things in the interests of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19293	Replica, the word has a National MP, Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19294	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a saying -- who knows he doesn't know, he knows something. So ignorance doesn't justify it, but I'm afraid my colleague isn't aware he doesn't know. First, renting agricultural land is not the subject of this law. This law speaks of the sale of agricultural land to foreigners, that is, the conditions under which they can do so and correct one injustice that has been committed by the joint criminal enterprise that I have already described. Number two, when it is already talking about renting agricultural land, it is true that investment programmes are awarded a lease for 30 years. But he forgets about the joint criminal enterprise, he's been issuing land for 40 years. We have here my fellow farmer whose winery has taken advantage of it. The investment programme was zero, so the bankruptcy manager whose colleagues have estranged to tens of thousands of hectares of agricultural land should know that the investor must minimumly invest 500,000 euros. If the larger area is another 3,000 euros per hectare. The lease can't be less, it seems to me 200 euros per hectare. They always sold the land at that price, and at that same price, God and the bankruptcy administrators alienated huge areas of agricultural land, especially in cooperatives. So, practically, on the case that I already cited, a fellow farmer got on 40 years' land...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19295	Thank you. Time's up for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19296	Wait, let me finish my sentence. ... For 50 euros and he took 500,000 euros, and here...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19297	Okay. Don't force me to finish the replicas. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19298	Again, as I listened to this display that deliberately provoked the replica, that song “tambured the boy in the tambourine. ” I don't know why. It's a shame, ladies and gentlemen, that those who make a public promise and promise it must be at a conference, a rally, a summit, as it is already called, of their association of citizens who are actually a movement, and it's not exactly a movement, but it's more something that they want to become a party, but it can't become a party because it can't collect enough signatures, publicly promise that they'll never play and sing in the National Assembly again, knowing how much damage it's done to them, and then they break that promise. Then what again? Tamburing. Okay. How much damage that brings to whoever's doing it, it's his personal matter and his personal problem. I thank you for the attention and desire to hear my comment and the team that do it and those who have shown interest in the stand, although "note bene" is not convenient to joke on the subject of standup, and stand alone. What they're going to say is for those who have been in political and not only political status since 2003, but also for these first ones. Why would we go out to meet the wishes of some people to talk too long and far just what they want to know and to sing and recite one and the same song, anyway, that they prepared for today's session or any other? There's no need, and we don't want to do it. On the contrary, we take this place too seriously to meet such impulses. Although it would make sense that one who likes to talk so much, unaware of the fact that I crashed it, so that it came to below the level of invalid ballots, should talk as much as possible. Still, there seems to be some charity in me too much, so I don't want to help him, so I don't say his name. As long as there's time, feel free to use it for what it's already doing, as it already does. If we want to do this right, there's only one way. This different one that implies renting heaters to itself, etc., it's ladies and gentlemen, unworthy of this place and it's, once again, tampering into empty and nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19299	Time, thank you. Replica, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19300	Thank you. This is an example of the exposure I was talking about earlier. So other than insults, insinuation and things that are completely incorrect, nothing about the essence. So, the essence is, the SNS gives state country to foreigners, 30% of the country's best goes to large foreign corporations, no inventions about me, about anyone from the opposition, they can't hide that part. As far as the minister is concerned, let me tell you, you're none of this, what you said you did, you didn't do. So, I was present for two days at the assembly session, during which time none of the things you said you said you didn't say. The minister would have to know that MPs are watching the transfer of the Assembly and from the parliamentary club, from these benches and listening to everything that's going on, and the citizens should also know that during the time, so the first two parts of the Assembly, the opposition cannot speak, cannot match the minister. Now, this is the part where we talk about amendments where we can interact, because I can answer whenever I want. Now the question is, if the minister has to expose how this country is given to foreigners and that report he was talking about, I'd be happy to listen to him, because I can answer him this time. The bottom line is, this isn't what interests farmers, we don't solve anything with this. To repeat, the current law does not allow foreign individuals to buy land in Serbia. This law changes it, this situation with the situation that also makes it impossible to sell the country to foreign individuals, it's up to two acres, conditions are ten years, investments and all sorts of things. Practically, the same thing. What we're not talking about is what agricultural policy is. We've been wasting our time for three days talking about things that are irrelevant to farmers, listening to the insults of the ruling majority MPs who want to escape the fact that the SNS gives home country to state foreigners 30% in all municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19301	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19302	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising article 107. Rules of Procedure, the speaker is required to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. What's the damage to dignity? Although we have corrected our colleague several times, he continues to claim that we are giving land to foreigners. We do? It's a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. We don't give anything. I've fixed it several times so that the land could be leased at the price...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19303	This is more of a replica, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19304	It's not a replica. Dignity has been injured, a persistent speaker is talking about us giving, and giving means giving, and the second is to be leased at 200 euros, at which bankrupt managers sold the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19305	Thank you, I understand. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Thanks, you don't want to. Replica, Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19306	Ladies and gentlemen, I seem to have some argument since it turns out that I've spoken some lies a little while ago, so at least I've heard it before. I'm guessing those untruths are about that heating thing. Is that right? Now, if that's what this is about, here's what I have to defend myself for, I have to justify myself. On the website of that association of citizens who are in fact a group of citizens who want to be a party, it is so falsely represented, and it is not a party because it cannot collect enough signatures to register. On June 22nd of this year, a text entitled "Why the parties hide campaign costs". I'm that information that they rent themselves money heaters that they get to spend in the campaign, I found it in this text of theirs, on their own site, in their statement in a sentence saying that their movement, or association, which is what they say – unlike any other partocracy, is probably not them, because they spend money only in the family circle, all their campaign costs are reported. And that applies to both food and drink and to people who work on social networks. I guess that's what they say, if some of the bots were meant. Now, that's what they spend money on, but in that sentence, so I found what I was talking about a little while ago, they pay themselves to use cars, use computer equipment, laptops, printers, all the way to the winter heaters and everything else they use in the campaign. In another text, I also saw an additional explanation, that they do, of course, and proudly report it, because what makes more sense when winter is cold than renting yourself a heater and then justifying it as the cost of the campaign. I'm sure it's just as logical as transferring money to the company of your MPs, family members, and so on and so forth. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as this is concerned, let them consult each other who write texts or with the site administrator. And maybe they should let us deal with the law, and I'll end up with Mr. Chairman, we're not the problem and we're the opponent, but the invalid ballots, they're the ones who need to win.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19307	Thank you. Replica, Sasa Radulovic, at the exhibition of Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19308	Thank you. Here's the sequel to the same story. To talk about a thousand dinars for a heater, and on the other hand to keep quiet about thousands of citizens who have fake SNS donations, by 40,000 dinars, people who are on welfare, that's really the highlight of cynicism. However, all these attempts to turn these inventions and stories of thousands of dinars into something that is not a topic today is an attempt to hide that the SNS is giving state-owned land to foreign corporations and thus deprives our farmers of the opportunity to process that country, you simply will not succeed gentlemen. So this can't be hidden, this is the central theme. No stories about funny heaters and a thousand dinars here and there will distract us from the central theme. So the country is given to strangers and that's the biggest problem we have here. It is given to foreigners through corporations that are founded here, which are usually founding in some exotic islands. Often our tycoons over these corporations actually come to the ground and they actually process it. Let's just say Al Rawefed is a great example of that. A vast country given in Karadjordjevo, from Backa, Sivac and so on, which is being processed by some of our tycoons. So this is the central problem we have. This law doesn't change anything. So he's talking about natural persons buying land under current laws they can't buy land in Serbia. According to these changes, everything that's going to be done will get some conditions that won't be able to meet, and that's fine, but we're wasting our time, not talking about central problems. It's a agricultural policy, but how do we support domestic agricultural holdings, how to create cooperatives, how to make a system for domestic agricultural holdings to process our country. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that's the subject, everything else is a cheap attempt to get away from the topic, the SNS is giving our country to foreigners.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19309	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19310	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising Article 104 and Article 107. Article 104 speaks of the right to replication. When no one's name, no last name, no MP's group, no party, and he gets a replica based on a heater, it's already a problem. Unless the heater hit him in the head, so he feels hurt. Number two, violation of dignity. You have allowed someone to use the word again, the term – gives. No, land is not given. We're not bankruptcy managers to give and take. The land shall be leased for the processing industry for production, etc. In the case of bankruptcy managers, the word "rented" for greater production does not appear to exist. With them just take and give and hence I understand, it must have been a bad gig last night, but in the future take a little care of a violation of dignity, a team before this law provides no renting, giving, etc. The law refers to selling the country to foreigners, correcting the SAA and making sure in future what a fellow bankruptcy manager is doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19311	Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day? (No) Who wants to speak according to the amendment? So, no more replicas. Just a minute. Take it easy. So, we're going to argue with the amendments, sign in. The word has the People's Messenger, Professor. Miladin Ševarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19312	I thank the chairman. As an applicant of the amendment, allow me first to draw attention that today is a significant holiday of the Great Lady and it would be a turn for all those who believe, no matter what religion they belong to, to behave politely in this House of Commons. Secondly, what I'm saying is that no Serb host, no matter what nation he was, speak Serbian, by territorial principle, is for sale of agricultural land, not yet covered up by legal persons to foreign founders, and not this one that has been delayed for 10 years or any future. Secondly, the country is sacred and any part of the land territory sold, part of the sovereign territory of the Republic of Serbia is sold. Let's assume we sell over half of Serbia's territory, although it's practically not possible now, because since 2012, we have only 49.8% of the total territory under agricultural land. Next, I agree that under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, not all real estates which are tangled to Article 63 are not trafficked. The SAA, but in any case, is both the transport of forests and forest land, and it is not even covered by this proposal and this time. Does this mean that the forests are on the market for sale from September 1st and beyond? Does this mean that houses and gardens in villages that have been in the back for several years are all registered as building land and construction facilities, practically now on the ceiling for selling to foreigners? Furthermore, I would ask the minister to explain, since this applies to the SAA, proposed changes and changes, does this leave the issue of agricultural land transport open to foreigners from other countries, from Afghanistan to America? Not just agricultural land. Furthermore, the lack of agricultural land to restore land and other immobilities to churches, heirs to rehabilitated persons from Serbia and heirs to Germans, Austrians and other nations awaiting the end of the restitution is evident. Bonds are now offered on a long-term basis, and the private property protection league is demanding amendments to the Law on Restitution and the adoption of a provision in the replacement restitution. Here it is proposed, these amendments and additions that the state has the right to an obstacle to purchase and private ownership. I agree here, but if he has the right to prevent buying, then it becomes a state property and a replacement restitution can be provided from that state property. At the same time, in the last term, this high house adopted amendments and additions to this law with a public debate, with only some amendments and additions being adopted by this house, with a reason that a new comprehensive agricultural land law will be passed in the coming period. Today we have a proposal to change and supplement again without any public discussion, from which both sciences and professions and all associations of farmers, from the association of farmers, to the Banatian couples, etc. Therefore, what is particularly problematic is the anti-communication of the provisions on the return of cooperative land and other immovableities since 1953 and beyond, by which they were abolished under the law, and were subject to a charge-free takeover, abolished under the Law on Cooperatives of 2015, as a state of cooperative property under the Bank of Banks Act 2011 and 2012. Such an example of anti-social policy is not present in any country in the 21st century. With partial solutions in previous amendments and amendments in 2015, it allowed state land law up to 30 years, large investors, which was regulated by the government's regulation, i.e. the resolution ministry, and should be kept in mind that we have not only disabled the current registered agricultural holdings of ours and abolished their prospects of development, but we have abolished the prospects of their successors' development, because over 30 years their successors, from the current 25, 30 years, will not be virtually interested in expanding the land. In this regard, we are one of the few countries in the world that treats agricultural land as a subject of purchasing relationships or lease relations, and we are not treating the formation of land and the object of buying or renting land like in Denmark, Germany, where you cannot buy a hectare of land, but you must buy an entire farm. I'm excluding these areas that are sanctioned and this bill, because this is practically about cross-border weekends and possibly pensioners coming to rent this land. Finally, refusing to limit the land's maximum to family owners, but also to legal persons, especially the number of members of that legal person and their membership in legal persons, is extremely problematic to note that more than 6,000 unemployed agronomists do not have access to state agricultural land based on knowledge at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19313	The word is Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19314	The purpose and purpose of the amendment to the SRS is to find a comprehensive solution, not this partial, and therefore the SRS has proposed that this member be deleted. Why? Because it is not the essence of problems facing Serbia's natural persons who will eventually be able to buy land in Serbia. The problem is essentially much deeper and much bigger. We also want the aim of the SRS in our speeches and discussions is to persuade you to give up a devastating co-operation and accession agreement, to give up essentially on the road to the EU. You are now continuing the continuity of the policy that was once run by DOS, DS. In fact, you're dreaming of a dream that you've been dragged into by those from the EU, and that dream may be nice for you, but it's neither good nor useful for Serbia. Anyone brought by foreigners to rule Serbia since 2000, convinces him, convinces him that he is historically very important to Serbia and that any law he adopts or proposes is historically very important to Serbia and especially to the EU. Let's just remember from agriculture, it wasn't that long ago, when the DOS furniture at the time, Europe supported, the EU supported, in the privatisation of sugarcans, in the privatisation of agricultural combinations, and then they said -- that's the right way, that's the shortest way for Serbia to get to the EU. What's going on? We were present or we witnessed absurdities, that for three euros they were bought sugars. It is not a problem to buy equipment, facilities, infrastructure, but rather a problem, an essential problem, which these sugars owned large farmland processing areas. We are now also aware of the consequences, not only of the cheap selling of sugars, so they freed the owners of government regulations from all obligations to the state, in order to make even more profitable, or even cheaper, and now these sugars and this land, we stress, owned by foreigners, foreign companies, because the owner of sugarcanes is a large number of sugars in Serbia, concluded a contract and an agreement that he is entitled to with foreigners, with foreign companies, and they are now the owners of land. Not to talk and not to repeat what's been going on over the past few years. We are witnessing that in a magical way, drug cartels buy Shipar and Montenegrin, launder money by buying agricultural land in Serbia. That's the main problem. These are much bigger problems than a natural person will come and buy in Serbia, with all these clearly defined rights and obligations to live or stay for 10 years, that he can buy two hectares as much as possible. It's not a fundamental problem. Serbia has many problems when it comes to agricultural land. We have problems when it comes to Serbian Vojvodina, when it comes to restitution. We close our eyes to the harsh reality. The return of the country is only a matter of the moment when it will be realised when it comes to the descendants of the folksdojcher. Don't lose sight of it, gentlemen. The descendants of the folksdojcers have changed citizenship in the largest number, are now Austrian citizens and as Austrian citizens have the right to return their land and property to them, and in Vojvodina it is a burning problem. Now we have a completely incomprehensible move to rent 5,000 hectares to a foreign company in Central Banat and Northern Banat. We have something that will contribute to those who are descendants of the colonists being in the right sense the words of the world. What do they do when they run out of land? They say those who appeal to return their land as the right of inheritance - we will not take the descendants of the colonists, we will not take the house just need the land. Well, why does he need a house without land? We close our eyes. We also have a case with you ministers in Srem, you know it well, in Erdewik, vineyards that are privatised, owner and buyer is one of the drug dealers from Montenegro, and in his name the already famous Witness associate Mile Jerkovic appeared. This is because, together with Mladjan Dinkic, he participated in the "Metals Bank" totally disintegrated, so that the country he had, as a mortgage supply, "Metals Bank" would share friends or those close to Mladjan Dinkic. Young Dinkic's ghost is still here. We Serbian radicals when we speak and warn about the dangers of applying the agreement and what danger it is when Serbia enters the EU we speak out of the best intentions. We don't want to compromise with certain little ones, who continue to yell for the president of the SRS that she's a communist. The youngest dissident in this area, the most famous anti-Communist, is now experiencing that someone who changed their ideology and religion until yesterday for a handful of dollars, and faith, and party and all, to honor him for being a communist or for supporting the SAA. It's embarrassing. It is not an argument that will bring good to Serbia. Everyone knows that the historical role is not achieved by being praised by foreigners, by Europeans pushing into something that is bad for Serbia and for our citizens, by being historically justified as a political figure and your actions, or decisions, historically, from a historical distance, will be assessed as good for the people. Vojislav Seselj has clearly defined his position a long time ago. Those who serve such a prank, insidious attacks, will only be remembered for whether they betrayed Slobodan Milosevic or not, and others will be remembered for whether they betrayed Vojislav Seselj or not. That's how history will remember them, so does Brankovic. And today when you say the last name Brankovic, everyone tells you - what's the matter with you, Vuk Brankovic? People changed their last name. So also those who have betrayed Vojislav Seselj and the politics of the SRS will be remembered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19315	Djordje Vukadinović, the People's MP, has the word:
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19316	Let me just say it again, I'm glad we're back on the subject. It is too important this topic to be spent on replicas and important advertising of the Rules of Procedures, which also serve as replicas. This little time I have I'm trying to use to get my colleagues and the public who's been following this, back or reminding me of the essential subject and question. That's the meaning of my amendment, and I see some other opposition colleagues. Of course we can wave photos, copies of the contract, nicknames from the tabloids and so on, but it won't take us anywhere dear colleagues and you know it well. What is important and why I took the word again to explain my proposal is that it really creates the wrong impression in the public that this is a bill that prevents the sale of land to foreigners. It's that impression and because of that and the support I see in the polls, some are true, some are media, not mounted, however, most people support it, my father supports it because it says – it's very good that you stopped these from selling land to foreigners. He'll be glad to hear that. Let's be serious. We're actually changing something that's formally in the law, that we can't sell land to foreigners, we're trading for a formulation that can be sold, but under conditions that actually mean it can't be sold. It's a kind of "misleading for the Goles Mountain", which our friends would say and returns from Kosovo, and there are other folk sayings, which can be illustrated well but I won't quote them, which can well illustrate what we are doing here or what the government is doing, to satisfy the EU, that we don't turn out to be against the EU SAA, but to actually prevent the sale, which is the key problem, and everyone says, regardless of whether DJB or Radicals or I, everyone tells you that the key problem is state land, they are, and they're buying you. We, too, know the difference between sales and leases, but for the point of view of the agricultural producer, there is no big difference in the country. The problem of the institution is, that's what my colleague Mircic was talking about very well and we can't close our eyes first, of course the subject is this law, but our observation is exactly why you went out with this, not with a system proposal, Mr. Minister? You know it'll come first... on the agenda, make that proposal, there's no problem in supporting it. On Friday, I praised the SPS amendment, in some form incorporated. I commended the presentation of my colleagues from the SNS, I don't know what it's called, who talked about scandalous privatisation, some agricultural combination, I guess in the Dobanovci, if I'm not mistaken, there are a lot of such examples. Let's work it out together, all of us together to get together and end it, all of us together to get together, we can't get together just one maybe good government together, but it's easier for us to split up and sectarianally argue, but if the goal is just to collect political points, then this proposal is great. Yes, you have created an impression in the public that this is a proposal to prevent the sale of agricultural land to foreigners, but the essence of the problem is not really a solution through businesses, through joint firms, actually this land and this state land will continue to leak and go away. I cited an example of the PKK, I cited an example of tennis, you deliberately ignored, you deliberately ignored tennis and ran away from the PKB theme. So, the propaganda effect is not disputed, so I congratulate you, but we know essentially both you and I and God that this will not solve the problem, what is causing our farmers and what is the problem for the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19317	The word is Gorica Gajic. As a bearer, you speak for the first time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19318	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, you waited a minute to 12 or two days before the entry of certain provisions of the SAA so that by who knows which time, as this Assembly is practicing, you could adopt an amendment to the Law on Agricultural Land by an urgent procedure. You say we must respect the obligations undertaken by international contracts, but I ask if we must protect and protect Serbia's interests? You respect and object to some previous governments, and one has ratified, and the other has signed the SAA, and you are here to shake this agreement well and see what is good, what is not good, what needs to be changed, to open a debate about it, and only then come here with a certain legislative proposal, as you have now come with a legislative proposal to amend the Agriculture Act. We DSS MPs have therefore responded to the amendments and we propose that all three members of this bill be deleted. The first member of the existing Agricultural Land Act says the owner of agricultural land cannot be a foreign natural or legal person. We suggest that such a provision remain. The fact that you have placed a decimal and continued "unless this law is defined differently, in accordance with the SAA, etc." is that you open the door to privatization of agricultural land, but only restrict yourself to private agricultural land for citizens of the EU or natural persons. Mr. Minister, we're not the EU yet. We're on some foggy road to the EU, but you're in a hurry to sell your land all by saying it's our obligation. Wait, if you have already decided to go to the EU, that what is called the greatest Serbian wealth, enter agricultural land as the highest value in the EU. Remove this law, remove these members, return to the public debate you ignored, and see what the biggest problem is. It won't be that the biggest problem when Serbian agricultural land is that it comes or doesn't come from the west to buy two acres here. We have much bigger problems here, both for the lease and for the land of former agricultural combinations, which we all keep silent about, and we know what's going on in reality. If you wanted to change anything, don't go to pieces. Let's systematically look at how we should deal with the problem of agricultural land in Serbia. Don't just touch what some colleagues here say is almost impossible, so we're going back to the current situation because the most important thing is whether any natural person from the West is going to come and buy here 2 ha under some conditions that you say are very sharp. It won't be like that. It's more like a replacement of thesis here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19319	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19320	Thank you. The main problem with the law and why we say that it should be deleted is because it does not see the whole problem, because we are talking about things that really don't matter, that don't solve anything for our farmers, which is how we talk in part about a single issue like buying a private country by EU citizens after 10 years of different conditions. So that practically doesn't touch the problem of selling the country to foreigners. On the other hand, the marketing law sells itself as if the issue were being solved. So, the issue of the country's agriculture in Serbia is one big problem that should be resolved systematically. He should be followed by various reports and discussions. We are passing this law by emergency procedure, without any discussion of what is a systemic solution to the country's agriculture. So, a large part of the country went into robbery privatisations. No one's been punished for that. There's always talk about it. The Serbian Progressive Party has been in power for five years and none of these things have been resolved and I don't understand why? So, with both the previous and this government, there's no solution right now, just a story about how someone robbed her. The other thing is, we've got property purchases from bankruptcy. For example, one has happened here now recently PIC Vienna and the practical government has done nothing about it, and it keeps talking about it. If there are, and there are bankruptcy managers who have wronged the law, they should be prosecuted, they should be in jail. The consequences of these crimes they have committed should be the return of that property. None of this is happening, it's just talking about it. Here's five years of SNS in power and we don't have any of that. So we need a system solution. Those who have sinned against the law should be in prison, not marketingly repeat the same story. This provision gives 30 % of all the countries in Vojvodina 30 % of all the other things we talk about and all the countries that have been given to tycoons and all these robberies that have happened so far. So none of these things are solved. What about the restitution? Five years in power and nothing about it. What about the cooperative property? What about the cooperative land? Everything's being pushed under the carpet, and we've been discussing this stuff for three days. So this is one irrelevant law. We've been wasting our time for three days, and the essential problems that farmers have, no one's talking about them. What's agricultural policy? Are we facing individual agricultural holdings or, indeed, what is true, SNS agricultural policy is based on giving state to large foreign corporations such as "Tenis", such as "Al Ravafed", etc.? So that's the wrong policy. Domestic farmers aren't being helped. We don't have protection from shoppers and buyers. The state doesn't do anything about cooperatives. So these are central issues, not this law. For this reason, keep the same message from different parliamentary groups – we need a system solution to this area. Agricultural land is one of the most important resources in Serbia, especially in Vojvodina. Agricultural policy should be addressed to domestic agricultural holdings. That is why these members are "expunged" and therefore this unremembered in the Serbian Parliament is the same opinion that you receive from all opposition parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19321	The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19322	The Honorable Chairman, I'm reporting on this subject for the first time. I've been listening to all sorts of things here and I have to admit that I don't understand, especially by those who in due time supported the 2001 Privatisation Act, and I'm going to remind you that this law allowed whoever buys the combination to come and land, so they didn't object when one stranger, you won't tell me that Todorovic is not a stranger, he's a Croatian tycoon, when he bought half of Vojvodina, and it's absolutely amazing that now you're rebelling because there's no such ban in this bill. I apologize and ask you why such a ban should be imposed, and what are you afraid of? Are you afraid of competition? Minister, I think you're required to answer here. Someone here wants to provide domestic tycoons to buy the entire agricultural land here, and that's the essence of the whole story. Have any domestic businessman buy a combination. It's no problem, let him invest. He'll be helped by the state. The problem is, we don't have enough. When they say they'll take the land out of here and where? Someone's gonna take the ground on their back and get out of here? I'm sorry, but the company has to register here. It's a Serbian firm. I really can't listen to this self-government nonsense, and you're bound to tell them once what it's about. In 2008, someone wanted to allow their tycoons here and some foreigners to buy land as natural persons, so he didn't stay in power, and now there's criticism because you're preventing it. I don't mind if some foreign company comes here to build its own company and buy a agricultural combination. What's wrong with that? Unfortunately, we don't have a combination anymore because they ruined everything. Their investor was Saric. Saric bought eight combinations in Vojvodina and ruined everything until the last one and then said it was a good investor, and now something's wrong. I ask you to really answer them in the future because this doesn't make sense, because the public is being led astray. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I don't see why anyone would be afraid unless they want to get their self-government back here or give someone a monopoly of these domestic tycoons who obviously are funding some of them somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19323	National MP Vladimir Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and a replica. I have to delete the list – Aleksandra Cabraja, Serbia's Filipovic, Obradovic, Markovic, Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19324	Thank you. I would ask you, the chairman, to remind the MPs next time they show passion... (Alexander Markovic: Which member? )......................................................................................................... Member of the 107th Infringement of the Dignity of the Assembly. Article 107, we've heard each other well, there's no need to throw it away. Please remind your colleagues when the presentation of previous MPs is called nonsense, whether it is self-administrative or not. If they are tired of listening to other MPs' statements, let the free rule of law go out the way they did at the weekend, let them take the self-proclaimed laws into their own hands, and let them go, let them remove the stands of religious communities on the street, and let them boast freely on social networks. That's the idea of the rule of law. And our exposure here is someone else's assessment of whether it's self-government nonsense or self-rule, and I'd like to ask you to respond to that kind of exposure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19325	I didn't understand your words more than 80%. I don't know what you're talking about. As for the assessment that self-management was stupid, I couldn't react, I have a political opinion on it. Then he said -- self-adjustment nonsense, but he didn't say which MP said self-legal nonsense. I'd react, but I can't react because I deeply agree politically that self-management was stupid. If my political position is for you to discuss, yes, this is Parliament. I'm a politician. I'm not Peter Pan. So, I can't, I couldn't agree deeply with you for saying self-government is nonsense. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19326	Yeah, it's those two minutes because of someone's obsession with SNS, as we already know. What's so smart? True, that is what some others think, for example, of some citizens. I hope those who are interested in this issue are interested in their assessment, as they have already received, very pleased. They got it deserved. On the point that this doesn't matter, so it doesn't matter who I am has an identity crisis, so it can't decide whether it's for Europe or not for Europe. He's saying he is, and then he's asking for no respect for international obligations in terms of European integration. He suggests that European integration be frozen, and then he talks again – yes, I am. What kind of attitude does it have to do with European officials, about which we can go on long and wide, that's another topic, but for those, it doesn't matter. For us, allow me, it is important. What did we hear now interesting? That the root of all the problems here is robbery privatisation. How did you miss the one who said that to mention who? How did you miss to say when? Maybe it's because he's trying to get away from these and those fences. Here, on the very day that we started the principle debate here, on Thursday past, I see a statement for the media, quote, vice president of that citizen association, which is a free shooters' association, wants to be a party, but it can't be. Anyway, whatever they are, their vice president says that they see their political happiness and perspective in co-operation with Dossian candidate Jankovic, Dossian candidate Jeremic, lists one, two or three yellow company subvariants in their new appearances, and all of this is beautifully illustrated by that wonderful photograph where they are all together, but still what others, from the same obscenity mile, in the solemn white shirts, embraced and smiled together, share the values they have and what they already have. If that's the point of the problem, why are you jumping into your own mouth? Why are you arguing with yourself? Once again, discuss it internally and in the family. It's not your SNS and parliamentary majority that's the problem. We're not your opponent. Your opponent is an invalid ticket. You attack them, you call us.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19327	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milan Lapcevic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19328	Dear Chairman, the DSS MPs have tabled amendments to the amendment of the Agricultural Land Act. We have asked everywhere to delete individual members, believing that the conceptual approach is completely wrong and that this matter should not be regulated in this way, because we believe that the sale of agricultural land to foreigners and the acquisition of property rights by foreign citizens in the Republic of Serbia is harmful to our national interests. Differently, it cannot be regulated, except by writing an amendment – it is deleted. We are absolutely against the fact that foreign citizens can acquire property rights over agricultural land, because we believe that agricultural land is one of our largest natural resources and national treasures that should not be subject to property transformations so that foreigners can be the owners of agricultural land, as we do not think it should be the subject of property of neither water, forest, or mineral wealth, etc. The justification that these provisions must be adopted because it is negotiated and written in the SAA absolutely cannot be an excuse, because other countries that once negotiated and later entered the EU had a similar or the same problem, but they have solved it far more favourably for their citizens and for their national interest than the state of Serbia does. Also, the excuse that someone once negotiated bad doesn't stand again. If something bad is being negotiated, it doesn't mean that bad negotiations must continue the same way. I welcome the current minister's insistence to restrict, to reduce the possibility of buying state and private countries by natural persons, but the fundamental problem in acquiring property is more on legal persons than on natural persons. So far, we've had dozens of purchases of agricultural land and goods where foreigners have acquired huge assets over agricultural land, which I think should be further solved by limiting the acquisition of property rights through such transactions. For example, Poland limited, when negotiating with the EU, restricting the acquisition of property rights by EU citizens over agricultural land in Poland to nine plus four years, or 13 years, and in 2012, by changing its Constitution, completely prohibiting anyone who is not a citizen of Hungary from buying out agricultural land. These are examples that can be a role model to us, and this is how a problem like this should be solved. On the other hand, in addition to these problems of obtaining property over agricultural land, I think that the Ministry of Agriculture should deal with those key problems, which is the accumulation of agricultural land, the implementation of co-operation in those parts of the country, where it is not done, because you have the fact that in the whole central and Southeastern Serbia, there has been no accumulation and that you have parcels of 10, 15, 20 acres where it is absolutely impossible to make any serious agricultural production, and we all know that agriculture is our strategic advantage and the export of agricultural products enables us, in a good way, to reduce this external trade deficit that we have as a state. That's why I don't think these provisions of the law are in favour of protecting national interest. That is why I call on you not to accept this law, that is, to vote against it, because it is not in the national interest of the Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19329	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19330	Thank you. Here, according to the already tried and verified way of functioning, we are running out of time, so we are now quick to bring in something we have committed to and what we have to bring in, again taking more care of the SAA than the Constitution of Serbia, because how else else do we interpret the problem constitutional basis and the reasoning that states Article 97. The Constitution of Article 1(9) and point 12, in which no agricultural land is mentioned at all, etc. It would have been much better to have been studied at this time by some other members of the Constitution. I could say a lot about that, but I don't have enough time, unfortunately, for that. Some colleagues have already spoken about this, so I am not going to talk about the members of the Constitution that should have been respected when writing these amendments and additions. The essential problem with these changes and additions, whose removal we have proposed, is the erasure of this member specifically, in that they not only do not fix the situation, so that the marketing authorities would want to present it, but they further worsen it by the system – it can always go up, faster, worse, stronger, etc. I think that this member that we're talking about right now, so Article 2, is very symptomatic, I would say, and symbolic in that sense, because it's no longer being said here – the transport of agricultural land in the state property, but it's a syntagma – it's being thrown out in state property, so it's just saying - the transport of agricultural land. If we look at how this state property of agricultural land was created in the first place, we will remember that it was mainly created by nationalisation and the way it was at that time controversial to European standards and standards, but yet the concept of "state property" gives some kind of protection and authority of the state over this property. Now I guess we'll erase that too, so I guess this power no longer sees the difference between state property and private property, or maybe it feels that all that state property is its private property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19331	The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19332	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, what can I say, I will be against this amendment anyway, but it's not a question of being against a solution or a solution, but you have to have an idea of what you're going to do. It's one thing to go to the National Assembly for a pay phone and say, "I'm against this law, or I'm against a member of the law, or I'm against a solution, and you have no idea." When you negotiated the SAA, you were probably led by an idea, whether it was a political idea, whether it was an idea to bring some benefit to the citizens, or the well-being of yourself, or the well-being of the tycoons, it was seen in some previous elections, but today you have no idea why you're against it, except to try to show naked hatred, except to try to convince the citizens once more, even though the citizens see that you have no idea what you need to do for Serbia. Serious people sitting on this side of the hall where I, who represent the majority in the Serbian Parliament today, are also trying to show in a direct transfer to citizens and everyone in the Republic of Serbia, which is why this legal solution is necessary and why we will vote on a vote day for such a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Agricultural Land. It's precisely because we try to correct a certain timeline something that someone's done wrong in the past, try to do something for the citizens. This is what citizens see and citizens clearly recognize, as citizens see that across the street from us people from the Association for Heating, the Association for Today I will, today I will not, from the Association I am for the EU - I am not for the EU, I will – I will not. We know what we want. We want to defend Serbia's interests, we want Serbia to be part of the EU, we want Serbia to be a serious state that respects its obligations and, above all, respects the interests of its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19333	The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19334	We've heard a lot about this amendment so far, and about hate and love, and about how there's a Serb oran, I don't know how you're going to treat the pastor's oran, like a Hungarian oran, etc. Anyway, it's been mentioned all the time. I told the minister Thursday and Friday. We don't have a problem with the SAA, we're proud of the SAA for a thousand and one reason. We are proud to co-operate with The Hague tribunal. We solved the problems we encountered in the '90s, and as responsible government, we had to do it. Is it the best solution? Of course, when you negotiate, you know it well, you can't always have the best solution. You have some extorted solutions. We've given the amendments, you haven't accepted the amendments. I think that's bad. In any case, problems remain in agriculture. We talked about it for a long time Thursday and Friday. The problems are deep, and the land as a basic resource is not protected in every sense, as you think, in a national sense, as those right-wing people think, or in another sense, and it is grouped in the hands of large landowners and we will end up at the end of 1936 when ten people in Vojvodina held the largest pieces of land, which is not the goal. It's not even 25% to live off agriculture, it's to make that percentage smaller, to be more effective. We need to open a topic and we need to focus your energy into this law on preventing the President of the Republic from assigning land, as he has done so far, because it will be more useful than this law that is today. Once again, I think that the SAA is a very important document, that it is one of the better, one of the best documents that we have adopted and that it gives instruments and gives a European perspective for what we have been fighting for all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19335	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19336	Thank you. About these ideas, since we suggested that we delete this solution. We'll ignore these attempts of insult and demeaning, but the idea of what instead of eradicating. I've said it many times, obviously my colleague hasn't heard, so let me repeat what should be done. The land should not be given to strangers. The state today gives 30% of the best country in all municipalities to foreign corporations. So that practice needs to be interrupted. We need to process everyone who has conducted a robbery privatisation from the previous, from all authorities, which this government is not doing, now accuses others. You know, not everyone was in power, like you and the previous government. It takes all those who have sinned against the law in any way to answer. A programme, i.e. an introduction plan, i.e. the return of cooperatives in Serbia, should be developed in order to support individual agricultural holdings, the Dutch model should be used. The country, instead of lending to foreigners, should be sold to domestic farmers, limited ownership, non-private ownership, rather than the state-owned country sold at 20, 30, 50 hectares. There are examples for that. The whole policy needs to be directed towards them. Also, tax policy needs to be changed, because if a large country has come to a small number of people, you can also correct it by tax policy so that those small farmers, agricultural holdings whose tax is extremely low, and those who have a large country are high. There is a progressive taxation that can be introduced into Serbia. It's a way that, in part, all the opportunities that the ruling majority had to process those who came to wake up why to agricultural land, correct it through a proper tax policy. Also, you have a chance to pass a law on the origin of property, which a large part of that land would return to, because those who bought that land have no property to justify it. These are all some things we could do. We could also see in agricultural production how it is done by shoppers, buying out farmers, say raspberries, how it is the owner of the Informer, as a shopkeeper, deals with the sale of raspberries and whether we have such problems in the area. So these are the things we have to do. Uncontrollable imports of low-quality food from which countries our people stand, some of the offshore companies. This is a central question, and it's politics, and these are the things we should be dealing with. Instead, the SNS gives land to foreigners. It's the only policy he's got. So basically this is what we're talking about, concrete ideas and concrete things that we should talk about first in a public debate, and then here in the Assembly. We don't have any of that, but we only have an emergency procedure that doesn't change anything. So much for ideas and what should be done. When we say that we need to delete this member of the law and not discuss this, we say this for a reason, we need a system solution and a restitution, and a question of cooperative property, and how we will strengthen domestic agricultural holdings and create cooperatives and systems to be successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19337	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19338	Like I said, we're not gonna keep anyone from using everything that's available, repeating one of those same tunes, free, that's the right of everyone, but when he's already causing replicas by mentioning SNS, we can always go back to where we left off. What and how much SNS gives to foreigners is enough to understand someone who would read this law, so let's say these four points that relate to conditions, and provided they're interested in the debate at all, and not that song of theirs, whatever that is. And then we take this to the level of discussion with someone who doesn't understand politics beyond that rental heater itself. When we mention it, he finds himself seriously offended and says – don’t bring up the story of our i.e. now. Their malfeasances on some thousand dinars. Ladies and gentlemen, never when we talk about malfeasance and these people are not about a thousand dinars. It's always about much bigger numbers. For example, I now again find the information that has been written and spread out in public, 30,513,258,76 dinars of campaign money that someone has taken, and has invoiced through their citizens' association for various strange jobs that are impossible to prove with papers. We're talking about an upside-down manner of using that money to pay off our own associates, and, among other things, the MPs. For example, through E Business Service, Timmy Plus, Trade Clout, Jazili Faj. Whoever he wants can check out who these companies were registered to, and there, not surprisingly, will find all the political workers of that phantom association of citizens who want to become a party and fail him. The occupation, for the very end, and I end up, Mr. Chairman, these companies went into liquidation immediately after the registered payments.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19339	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19340	Is it just because money is being taken, is that story and everything we hear today just because of that money? Thank you very much. (Saša Radulovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19341	There's no replica. We've been listening to this all morning. (Sasa Radulovic: Are you listening? Please get back to the agenda. The word is by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19342	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course this amendment should not be accepted and I would just like to add here, if the nervous part of the opposition calms down, something that's been going on for a few days in this debate here and it's almost spinning like a water wheel, and I'm just going to mention a few things. It is said, first of all, that this problem is being solved at the last moment, so it's being expressed as some kind of prescription, so that right after that, it's said that this law doesn't actually solve the problem. They deny themselves in the same exposure. It's not clear to them whether this solves or doesn't solve the problem, they haven't cleared up themselves. What I can say is that we are completely solving this issue by introducing it before the agreement signed by some previous government is in force. It's also said here, and we hear it from the opposition's ranks, that they're against selling land to foreigners. Then the question really arises how is it possible that so far, here, the third day of the debate, they have read about what this law refers to, which is just talking about banning the sale of the country to foreigners, so that they can say that it is not a law that will fix it, and then they say that what we are delaying in Serbia will not solve the problem, and then they are saying that the problem has been solved in some countries, so they provide an example of which the Republic of Serbia has been led, on the same principle. So in other countries, it can solve the problem, and for some reason known, it can't solve the problem with us. And we spin the same story, we spin some demagogy, etc. What I'm saying is that this government takes care of farmers, takes care of agriculture, and as it has confirmed in the previous elections, I believe it will confirm in the future. Another very good example is that here, among the opposition MPs, today some who have self-propagated for a foreign ambassador, allegedly pushed by foreign ambassadors, who are constantly engaged in agriculture in this parliament, and here, when it comes to agriculture and legislation directly related to agriculture, he is not present in the hall today, nor was he present on Thursday and Friday. And it's not just a tendency for him, it's for many MPs of the opposition. But let it serve him honor and I would only like to see if, in future, he continues to give himself the right to propose and to propagate here how he allegedly cares about agriculture, how he cares about farmers, and not worthy that when he talks about agriculture, he will not be present in parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19343	The word is Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19344	Respected Serbian citizens, humiliated and offended by the Serbian Progressive Party over the past six years, are extremely valuable and important to me that I can now reveal at work what it looks like when the Serbian Progressive Party looks you in the eye and lies. Now, we have just heard from a previous speaker, one of the MPs from the Serb Progressive Party, that the law prohibits the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. It's the greatest lie a member of the people could have...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19345	Excuse me, do you have to use those words - disclosure, lies, dizziness? Let's respect the dignity of the Assembly, colleagues, please, colleague Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19346	I would ask you to write me a speech for the next meeting of the National Assembly, so I don't have a dilemma about what can be said and what can't be said in Serbian.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19347	We won't argue, just please, since I will be forced to apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19348	Are you going to let me explain in my time or are you going to take my time?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19349	Continue your speech, but I will not tolerate you insulting anyone, no individual, no MP and no political party. Please continue and please continue in that tone, civilized.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19350	I'm asking you to make up for the time you stole from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19351	You'll be compensated. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19352	Thank you. So when one MP says that this law prohibits the sale of agricultural land to foreigners, and that is not forbidden by this law, is he then lying? What's it called in Serbian? Or he has no idea of the law that the ruling majority has proposed. Of course, this law allows for the sale of agricultural land to foreigners, I guess a small child knows that in Serbia, and that you are trying to hide the truth from Serbian citizens that this law allows the sale of agricultural land to foreigners, that is another question. Now we come up with some very interesting things. As the law so far reads, the owner of agricultural land cannot be a foreign natural or legal person. So, so far, the bill that you are now amending has forbidden the sale of agricultural land to foreigners, both physically and legally. From this moment on, since you've changed this law, that's allowed. So you're allowing the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. Dot. In the first article, you make it clear, putting the decimal behind the previous position – unless this law sets out differently, in line with the SAA with the EU. So, because of the SAA with the EU, you introduce the possibility that foreigners can buy a country in Serbia, simply. You're trying to tell the citizens of Serbia that you're not doing it, and that's exactly what you're doing. Even in the explanation that you reject these amendments, you admit it and say nicely that you want to coordinate to allow EU citizens to acquire property rights on agricultural land in the Republic of Serbia, under the same treatment as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So this is the goal of this law, to meet EU citizens to have the same rights as Serbian citizens. What you were not allowed to tell Serbian citizens here and what I am now discovering in this part of the debate, and I would like the minister to say if I were wrong, is what would happen if we didn't adopt these amendments and supplement the Agricultural Land Act? Would the SAA have started on 1 September 2017, and could foreigners in Serbia be buying the country? No, we couldn't. So, if we didn't pass this law, the foreigners couldn't buy anything in Serbia from our agricultural land. Why? Because the SAA you signed says we have to make it possible for our laws to do so. So, as long as we make it impossible for them to do so, the foreigners won't be able to do it. You should not have left the existing law prohibiting the sale of agricultural land to foreigners, you should not have because your EU friends, who brought you to power, had to explain why you did not equate their rights with the rights of Serbian citizens and you had to pass this law in order to continue the policies of Boris Tadic, Bozidar Djelic and DS, under which the EU has no alternative. I repeat again the position of the Serbian Movement Dveri – the European Union has an alternative. The European Union does not have to prescribe for us how we will live in Serbia. We will never sell our agricultural land to foreigners as SNS. When you go through treason, on that path you can't stop.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19353	I'm really not gonna let you talk like this, about selling the state, selling the territory. Please don't do that. I already warned you once.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19354	Why didn't I tell you the truth?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19355	Please don't use such terms. This is the last time I asked you. I'll give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19356	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, you're very kind.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19357	And you be kind, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19358	I would ask you, when you wish to break down with me, to take the word and come down among the messengers of the people, not to interrupt me while I speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19359	I'd love to. Just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19360	Thank you very much. So if you think I said something incorrect, come out and deny me. I'm not the one who signed the anti-constitutional Brussels Agreement. I'm the one who signed your authority. So, this law has an additional purpose, first of all, to keep quiet about the tycoons that robbed this country, because in six years, the SNS authorities didn't end up in jail. The other purpose is to continue the sale of agricultural land to foreigners and foreign tycoons, personal friends of the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic, because only personal friends of Alexander Vukic, such as the Arabs and the "Tenis", and you deny me if it is not true again. So our country is subordinated to the president of the state who functions and the Prime Minister, and our companies, our agricultural land is sold to his personal friends from abroad. It's the way this country works. Of course, why emergency procedure? Because it is only urgent in Serbia to align our lives with the EU, and nothing else from the interest of Serbian citizens is urgent for you. For months, no topic can come to the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but only what is being imposed on us from the EU, only what you have to comply with the rules of Brussels, only what your Brussels Commissioners from the Central Committee are imposing on you. That's the point of this law. If you were the progressors of patriots and you advancers were really protecting Serbian, national and state interests, you would leave the existing law prohibiting the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. You are changing it, allowing the sale of agricultural land to foreigners, because when the commissioner arrives, the commissioner must not be told anything. There's no difference between you and DS, between the former regime and the current regime, because you have the same kind of loyalty of the polarity and the servitude to the Central Committee in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19361	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19362	Chairman, you've violated Article 100, you've entered a controversy with an MP. The word "false" is Serbian order and can be used. Also, speaking about whether or not someone is protecting or disrupting national interests is the subject of political speech in the congregation. Your interference with the president's speech violates Article 100, because if you want to settle down, you need to go down to the assembly benches, like all the other MPs, answer the word and then give your opinion. In this way you abuse the position of the chairman and express your political views on the legitimate political speech of your opposition colleagues. At the same time, as MPs insult the ruling majority, they use ugly names for opposition members, you don't react at all, and when someone tells the argument that a lie has been told from a congregation pay phone, it's said that this law does not allow the sale of foreigners, so that's not true. Lies, lies, those are the words, the normal words of Serbian. So, you violated article 100, and I want this to be voted on in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19363	Thank you, the Parliament will vote. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19364	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In addition to a member who pointed out by counterpart Radulovic, you violated Article 106 and Member 109, which discusses the freedom of speech of the MP. I'm very surprised that what exists in the Serbian dictionary, and someone can say it's a lie, someone can say it's not telling the truth, you want to sanction it with a warning. You state that this is an insult, and you were personally chairman of this building when a fellow SNS colleague, Mr. Obradovic, called it "lupetan", Mr. Sutanovac "loves money", Radulovic "a bankruptcy manager" and each of those who sit in opposition, with a special nickname, calling for some magazines such as the ruling coalition's public ballots. I'm very surprised, Mr. Chairman, that you don't have the same criteria, and that's something that you owe me in accordance with Article 27. The Rules of Procedure that I hold in my hand, that you take care of the order in this congregation and that you have the same criteria. Is it possible to flagrantly and constantly punish the opposition's representatives with warnings? To understand, the warning is 10% of the salary, and at the same time, the mention of Auschwitz is 10%, and Jasenovac is not 10%. You see, Mr. Chairman, and then you chaired, with all due respect to all innocent victims in Auschwitz, it is much more difficult for the Serb people to suffer in Jasenovac. It didn't bother anyone. Mrs. Maja Gojkovic said she would look at the stenogram. Is it necessary for such a different archaic, regardless of how much I appreciate the power, authority, and the opposition, the opposition, to have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19365	Thank you. Replica, Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19366	Whatever's unclear to them, they can ask freely at any time, they'll always get an answer. But, Mr. Chairman, let me tell you, don't be surprised that some people only get a certain level of dictionary. So for someone who, for themselves, in an official statement, says in official material that he studied in the group department, I don't expect him to be able to cope with words in a good way. So what he's saying and what expressions he's using, it's a perfectly normal thing. He who says that for the first time is now allowed to buy us sacred land, and in the same sentence or two sentences later, he says anyway – besides, you have allowed them long ago. You can also understand how much he understands and how much he is able to concentrate on the debate and that he is dealing with any kind of problem at all. When we talk about commissioners all sorts of different things, which is mutually supported by these ridiculous associations of citizens, it's perfectly logical, the commissioners of the one who did the replica for a little while were just challenging his colleagues from those phantom associations of citizens. He admires them. They're his idols. That's what he said himself today in one of the tabloids, when we talk about the tabloids. In that famous land, with which he identified himself and said, "I and he are the same." Yeah, they're the same. That's where he said his idols were potential associates. And who else, a dossal candidate, Jeremy Wolf, right? Is that what he criticises when he mentions the former president of the famous model? Is that what he criticises when he mentions Bozidar Djelic? Well, he's with them in his own words, I'm the same. Not to lie, he mentioned KIM quite often, but he mentioned it for a good reason, because it's kind of an obsession. For someone who descends to the level of these tabloids, and these political geniuses who have about something below an invalid number of ballots, share with them a political destiny. I get so many votes myself, which is at 1% level, which is at 2% level. Just when a man thinks he's so pointlessly funny in politics and can't get less than he gets, it turns out he can. He's got fewer votes on KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19367	Who's picking up the amendment? The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19368	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, here we have heard the performances of some of the people I think have been authorized by the representatives of the Bensedin. So we've heard about how we give land to our tycoons, ours. I don't remember any tycoon this government has given the land to, but I remember these tycoons. I remember for a few dozen faxes they sold huge areas of agricultural land at a cost of less than 300 euros. When it wasn't enough for them, they used bankruptcy managers. So when that wasn't enough for them either, then by the government of Mirko Cvetkovic and Saša Dragina 1200 hectares, for example, "Agrounius" bought 300 euros per hectare. So somewhere beneath the Gladnoš restaurant, so these tiny plots here, which among other things belonged to the "MK Group". Since they didn't like those small areas, then, against the law, the bushes there took a well-ordered state agricultural land, arranged plots, along the highways suitable for construction. When that wasn't enough either, and I'm sorry that the student was 12 years old, the former circuit secretary is not here right now, then they bought land from the municipality that was replaced and estimated at 30 to 40 dinars of square meters, or 3,000 euros per hectare. Then the municipality bought it for 50,000 euros a hectare the same year. And then they come here to give a lecture and mention the tycoons among other things. It is a wonder when you listen there to an organization that was founded as a family society, as a family association, when you listen to a professor of literature who instead of words is stuck using the word comma, I guess it's from Pernar and when you hear how we sold it to tycoons, forgets, say, that the privatisation of "Agrounius" was done in 2005, when the government of Vojislav Kostunica, which is, for example, and "Agrokoru" sold the land in that period, and that, while we're at MK Group, to mention that the owner of the company was Swiss and Dutch companies, and Miodrag Kostic owns everything with 1%. If I were to be put into law now if I couldn't get foreign legal entities to set up companies here, then that would also apply to these, and then it would be a retroactive fact, the bankruptcy manager is, for nothing, to explain it, what the law knows, he only knows what a guitar is, a gig, etc., and to take away the market can hurt us, and to himself. So it's for nothing to explain to him that it would be a retroactive fact of the law if we put in the provision that it applies to legal persons, because most of their firms, their founders like Delta, say, from Cyprus, those to whom they sold agricultural land, they're today asking us to correct all their mistakes, and even those that, because of the Constitution and the Law on Economic Society, can't be so easily replaced. I am appalled by the performance of a professor of literature who has taken the right to criticise the government of Vojislav Kostunica and to attribute it to us, a team which, thanks to the rest of this party, has entered this parliament and now it needs to be partially borne by the part of the sin that the government had, and now at all costs, trying to attribute it to us. Let them show me what's wrong with this, and I will resign as MP. Here they mentioned various mice, wanting first of all to tie agricultural land to the directorate or to my smallness. Here's a confirmation from both directors that there's no connection with me, but that's why it has to do with Milorad Kostic, and that's why it has to do with them, because before 2013, before the harvest, we did on my request activity, and we found 80,000 tons that ate slightly larger mice, yellows 80,000 tons and the general astonishment of the state of Serbia found 22,500 tons from friends of the former province's secretary, president of the Indji municipality, etc., had a double bottom, 22,500 tonnes. And, behold, wonders, instead of the Republic Directorate being registered and charged by Lux and agrarian Krcedin, it was found in the list of immovableities that the silos were already partly registered to the then assistant minister of Dobrivoj Sudžum at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. Now, that was them. Now, that's what I'm saying that all their mistakes want to be attributed to us and let them forgive us for their mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19369	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Sasa Radulovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19370	Thank you, Chairman, should be in line, but you don't follow those rules. It's interesting that someone who's eaten the stock reserves tells about anyone else that he's done anything. These attempts at detachment, the story of this robbery, that robbery, you've been gentlemen in power for five years, you haven't solved a single one. We really don't care if you robbed, those before you, they were all supposed to end up in jail, you're just talking, you haven't processed anyone. All the robbery privatisations carried out, no one answered. You've obviously taken over this whole business, so that's how things work. In the meantime, let's say PIC Vienna sells these tycoons whose paintings you're showing now. It's so hypocritical that I have no words. So you're practically nothing but talking, and you're telling me about what the previous government was doing, so that's really ridiculous. So you're trying in different ways to say, the legitimate costs of the campaign that have been reported to the Agency, you're showing something controversial to God, and on the other hand you're not reporting any of your expenses. So, citizens know, there were thousands of SNS activists...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19371	Col. Radulovic, please, it's not a replica, you speak by amendment, at least you stand for the full application of the Rules of Procedure always. So don't do that. So please stick to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Please reapply.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19372	So, the chairman, I really thank you, this is extremely hypocritical. So, you don't give me a line to answer, and after that you remind me of what I'm using my time, it's really...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19373	You're talking to me again, please, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19374	This is below all levels. Stay out of my word when you're not already interfering with the MP who spoke here for five minutes without mentioning the law. Well, then how can you even look Serbian citizens in the eye? So the essence of all of this is, the ruling majority is trying to reverse the subject from what it is today, which is SNS giving country to foreigners, point. It does not prevent 30% of the best country from going to tycoons and large foreign corporations, and it is to God represented as the protector of the interest of farmers. And all they're trying to do is actually get away from that topic. Well, we hear incredible stories about everything and everything, Serbian citizens should know, the SNS is giving our most valuable resources to foreign corporations, and that's what this is about, state land. What we're discussing today is really absolutely groundless and, as has already been said by the opposition, we had a law banning the sale of land to foreigners, now a member who practically indirectly allows but meets the conditions impossible, and he's not solving the problem. The central problem is that the state is already giving 30% of the best country in all municipalities to foreign corporations. This is what SNS is doing and this is what they're trying to escape from with these pointless attacks and stories about others, and they're actually trying to hide what they're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19375	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Orlic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19376	The Serbian Progressive Party, the Serbian Progressive Party, and it is a shame that someone who promises long and wide to play and to sing does not keep that promise, this does not suit him. Yes, this is a replica. The question, why is it addressed to him, who is so loudly asked, why the question of what were the members of the Dossos regime doing? Well, because someone's taking pictures with them today, hugging and kissing, not me. Why would anyone ask me about an ex-president, a famous model? I've never seen a man in my life. And he who humbles and wonders, he saw him, hugged, kissed, wore white shirts together, and him and failed Dossovite candidate Jankovic and failed Dossovite candidate Jeremic and others who are on the other side who I see writing hastily, who catch some rifles. So it's their company and we're asking them for it ourselves. Clear as day, there's nothing clearer. As far as campaign money malfeasance is concerned, I'm not asking anyone here personally, it's clear to me from which I can't hear an answer that makes sense. I ask, here, Serbian citizens if they're on the Internet to check whose company is the e-business service? Whose company is Timmy Plus? Whose company is "Fedclaud"? Whose company is Jezellifaj? If during the sale, Serbian citizens find someone's wife, someone's business and political associates, MPs, that's the answer I'm looking for today and who will find the citizens themselves. And even if they find one interesting circumstance that these companies have been listed after they've received campaign money from the citizens' association went into liquidation, the citizens who follow this will be as clear as possible. And when they see who they're gonna have a fight with in the next election, they're gonna get scared and run away, maybe that's how they're gonna win the worthless ballots. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19377	Thank you, colleague Orlic. (Sasa Radulovic: Are you really not ashamed? He didn't mention you. Thank you. Don't throw it away, please. The word is from a colleague, Radoslav Milojic. Here's a colleague of Milojičić's. (Branka Stamenkovic: This is a real shame. Rules of Procedure, sir. Come on, make a deal. (Sasa Radulovic: We have nothing to agree on. Shame on you. You called after I gave my word to my colleague Milojičić. Wait till it's over. Here's a colleague of Milojičić's.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19378	As a gentleman, I'll wait for my colleague to finish, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19379	You're the only one who's talking, so let's go by the rules, the procedures, the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19380	Okay. I'll speak from the time of the parliamentary group. We have time for a parliamentary group, so I'll use that time. I'm sorry I didn't get any answers from Mr. Secretary on Friday. I have to admit here with the threat that someone will resent me, who I have a correct opinion of, and I'm taking it out of that schizophrenic advanced bulum. So...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19381	I give you a warning from my colleague Milojičić. Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19382	So, a well-intentioned advice to Mr. Minister, that it is time for him to slowly see that Alexander Vukic's regime is over and move slowly out of the regime that has caused only evil to Serbian citizens. I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, that you didn't answer any questions I asked you as Minister on Friday. I've had a little time, so I'm going to use the MP's time now. I'd like to ask you some more questions. We've been listening here about everything and everything, we just haven't heard about agriculture, although agriculture must have been one of the best potentials for our country's development, but it hasn't been used properly so far, especially in the last six years, since the SNS reduced subsidies to farmers from 14,000 dinars to 4,000 dinars, since it collected all the excise duties, raised the price of fuel, etc. Mr. Minister, I was in Koserić last week and the citizens of Koseric were delighted with the victory of the SNS that you contributed, although DS with its coalition there made a good score of over 18%, they asked me if I could ask you a question, since the citizens of Koseric do not have a chance to ask you. You were in a pre-election campaign, and like everywhere a SNS official appears, you made a series of false promises, a series of promises that you unfortunately failed to fulfill as Alexander Vukic failed to deliver on any promise. In the village of Makovište and Seca River where I was, where you were, remember, you promised that the price of raspberries would be 2.3 euros, and now unfortunately the price of raspberries is 1 euro, so citizens ask what you will do about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19383	Really, buddy, get back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19384	I'm using group time, so let me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19385	Sure, sure, but now about the price of raspberries?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19386	The other thing is, Mr. Minister, what happens to the 300 tractors you promised in the election campaign. You promised that the people of Koseric would get 300 tractors, if they voted for the SNS and those honest people, honest farmers even reconciled their tax obligations, because it was one of the conditions and filled out forms with the president of the municipality to get 300 tractors. Since none of this has happened, here are six months after the election campaign, please explain to us as MPs representing citizens here, farmers in this situation, to tell us what's going to happen? You said, Mr. Minister, that we have 175m euros to use, and that's good. Can you tell us how much of these 175m euros will be withdrawn, how many of the 175m euros will be used and whether our farmers are trained and can they benefit from these 175m euros, since the SNS, not you personally, have abolished 1,200 young and educated and trained people who have helped people in the country precisely because of the applications and other difficulties they have had in the country? Can you tell us what happened with 2,500 hectares and whether the procedure you gave “Tenis” has been implemented and whether you can tell us whether the drought from this year on has been catastrophically affecting the reduction of GDP and whether we should continue to look into the sky in 2017 or whether we should have an agrarian policy that does not depend on whether SNS or any party will change ministers as socks, as you have done in the last six years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19387	The word has Minister Nedimovic, just sign in. Just one moment. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Stamenkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19388	Thank you. Injury, first of all, Article 103, which states in the first position that the breach of the Rules of Procedure has priority over all other announcements for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19389	My colleague, you called after my colleague Milojicic called.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19390	That's not true. I was holding, I couldn't get back to you, because your system's overbooked, wait, I've got two minutes, I'm not finished. So, I held the Rules of Procedure high to see it, because your system is overbooked and when the key is pressed, nothing is registered to you. So you're pretending to be ignorant. You've seen very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19391	My colleague, I don't want to talk about it that way. Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to declare themselves on Voting Day? (Yes) Thank you. I'm setting a break for one minute. [[after breaks]] We can keep working on the amendments. Who's picking up the amendment? The word has the People's MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19393	Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we heard a lot from both sides and on the other hand, and I would like to contribute to that discussion. At the beginning of today's meeting, a colleague said to put moratorium on all decisions regarding agricultural land. How do you do that? It's very hard, because life goes on, it can't wait, and something once signed, it's done, and it's our obligation, unfortunately, that we have to do it. Let me ask myself, here's the truth, and I'm not up for Serbia's entry into the EU, because it seems to me that there's a lot of hard and bad coming on that road, but the majority of the congregation since 2000, so to this day it's on the road and regardless of our personal opinions and personal desires, we have to stick to what's signed. I think this is a good attempt to, as much as it alleviates what is signed in the SAA and I believe it will be in the interest of the Serbian citizens. It is normal for the opposition to always have the opposite view of the ruling majority and try to challenge the legal proposals of the position, but I would like them to make concrete proposals on how this should be resolved and that, based on these concrete proposals, the Minister and the Ministry can also adopt certain draft laws, i.e. the acts referred here to the Assembly. There's something else I'd like to say about these discussions, and I'm afraid it's not a good practice to say some words that are really in Serbian here in the Assembly, especially those words that aren't ugly, it's different when you tell someone that cattle, donkeys, horses, etc., and when you say something that's a lie, I don't think it's ugly. One more thing I would like to say to everyone, I had the honour of being in a meeting with a high Chinese delegation and when we asked the Chinese how they were able to develop so quickly, to become a big and strong country, the force, their official told us – you know, we take from all that is good and we use it in our country, here with you Serbs we took self-management, that is, from that period of self-management a lot of what was good for us. So I'd like to ask my colleagues when they're talking about some of the past times so that they're not so rough and cruel and they call something stupid, I'm not going to say that in this self-government socialism everything worked out, but there were things that were good and then they shouldn't be called nonsense in general. I hope that this law will soon be passed, but I believe that most citizens, as well as one of them who came to me after all, came to a conclusion here, and he told me like this – professor, a lot is being stolen in the country of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19394	The word is made by MP Branko Stamenkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19395	Thank you. Infringement of Rules of Procedure, members of the 128th National MPs are obliged to carry identification cards with them on their way out of the National Assembly. I'm asking the cameras to record how many cards have been left, and the MP's gone. I would ask the chairperson to invite the National Assembly to pick up the cards of lawmakers who are not currently in the O.R., in accordance with Article 128, in order not to make false statistics. You know, I've asked the department for statistics on the presence of MPs, some SNS MPs, according to the electronic system, are present in the hall longer than the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19396	You were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What does that have to do with the presentation of your statistical reports that you received and followed? All right, we'll call the departments to do it in accordance with this section of the Rules of Procedure and do it as requested. Do you want the National Assembly to declare that the Rules of Procedure's injury in the day of the vote? Thank you. I've called the service. Sasa Radulovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19397	Member of the 103rd Parliament has two minutes to expose the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You don't allow two minutes, you jump into words, that's unacceptable. A while ago, a fellow SNS colleague gave you a letter about what you should do, and what you shouldn't do, you didn't warn him.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19398	You abuse the Rules of Procedure. I'm going to count this on you at the time of the parliamentary group. The word has been sent by the People's Parliament, Maja Gojkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19399	I call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, first paragraph 103, that the MP cannot point to a violation of the conduct of the President of the National Assembly if it is already indicated and regardless of the noise caused by the MP, who has learned mantra 103, 104, 107, and has learned nothing more about the Rules of Procedure, can no longer be called to Article 103, which has already been shown as an injury. (Sasa Radulovic: What are you talking about? Don't yell. Please, Mr. President, use... President, I ask for a little culture and education from the MPs who warn everyone else and never see themselves. So he can't... President, I'll interrupt my presentation, since you're not listening to me, and MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19400	Please continue and ask the MPs not to receive.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19401	You'll give me back my time, since you didn't listen either, and I know how you'll determine whether or not you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, except you'll say that we plead or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19402	Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19403	It's Article 103(2), and the previous MP who called before me for a breach of the Rules of Procedure couldn't do it, and you were obliged to stop right now, because there's no rule, listen first to two minutes of what I have to say this morning from 10 to 12.50, and then you'll just tell me that I shouldn't have called on 103, but it stops right now. The next breach of the Rules of Procedure is certainly a member of the 106th and President, I ask you to start using now after the debate from 10.10 to 12.50 of Article 106(1) that the speaker can only talk about the agenda point and stop a broad debate on political life in Serbia for the past ten years, but rather focus on the debate only on the debate on amendments and to end this useless debate that may have taken place a few days ago, but not today, if MPs know that they are talking about their amendments, if they do not know that the speeches are interrupted. It is your duty to hold a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to move on to the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19404	Thank you. I think you're absolutely right and we'll continue to work on the amendments in accordance with the agenda. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Maya Gojkovic: I don't want them to plead because they would also plead my leadership. Thank you. We're going into debate only according to the amendments. Who's applying for an amendment to Article 1? The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19405	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, of course I suggest that the amendment to this Article 1 is not accepted, especially by one minor political party, with the fact that it does not distinguish two basic things. He doesn't know private property from the lease. That's one thing. Secondly, when they list themselves in their explanation of the individual EU member and the length of the delay in application and when ours are now watching us, they would see that, although I do not enter the EU later, that application would be 7-8 years later. It's very strange, since I know they have at least one experienced lawyer, which property rights and lease rights don't differ. I think they have a good lawyer, but when he proposes their president of the parliamentary group, it's all messed up just like he didn't make the difference today. Further on on terms. They, as you can see, say "your terms". Well, I guess their terms are because they didn't make any new proposals, too, huh? This is our Parliament, and they're our opposition, so what-so. So that's the other one. Third, in the end, I think you were in charge when that president of the parliamentary group reacted and insulted the President of the Republic and his brother without proof. This puts him in the media attacks that are being conducted unseenly these days against the President of the Republic and cannot be defended here immediately. They have engaged with those media and individuals who aim to degrade the president's post, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I have a feeling they've settled into that group of racquetarian, let's say, mafia financial political groups whether they're domestic or foreign implementations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19406	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. The word is Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19407	Therefore, it is absolutely justified to support the amendment of the Serbian Movement of Dveri, which we are erasing Article 1 of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Agricultural Land, for the simple reason that it will remain in force by the existing law, which prohibits the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. You are, of course, trying to distract the public and to explain that you are not selling agricultural land to foreigners and, of course, you are talking about the former regime as if during that former regime, and it is, sold agricultural land to foreigners, and you are forgetting interesting information, that you have been in power for six years and that you have done nothing in this field of the origin of all politicians and tycoons, that there is no existing law that should regulate it, that in prisons are not the ones who robbed us during the previous government, which clearly says that you are protecting them as well as the previous government. And not only are you protecting the tycoons that robbed us during the previous period, because if you weren't protecting them, you'd arrest them, as soon as they're not in prison, it means your comrades are like your former regime's friends, but you now have a new society that you want to introduce into the legal flows of the Republic of Serbia, which are foreign tycoons. So, you now want to give foreign tycoons our agricultural land, our companies and you're going into total Serbia's final sale, wanting to sell both the PKK and Belgrade Airport and agricultural land in private, cooperative or any other property. So, just your president's personal friends, the president of the SNS, are getting leased agricultural land in Serbia. Why can a Serb and Serbian farmer and a Serbian firm not borrow the land but only personal friends of the SNS president and the president of the state, Alexander Vukic? This is the real question that you here have no answer to, as you do not have the answer to, do you remember that DS formed the SNS in the agreement between Alexander Vukic and Miki Rakic?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19408	What does this have to do with the law and the agenda now?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19409	If you'll let me explain, here's the deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19410	You don't have to explain that to me. Continue according to agenda theme.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19411	So this law has no basis for being brought in by an emergency procedure. If we do not pass this law, we will best protect our agricultural land, because under the current law it is forbidden to sell agricultural land to foreigners. So if we don't pass this law, that's how we protect the sale of agricultural land from selling to foreigners. If we pass this law, then we give the possibility of buying from strangers. Instead of this law that you are passing under an emergency procedure, other things should be passed, such as resolving the issue of cooperative property, such as the adoption of a law on the investigation of the origin of property, such as the renewal of our agricultural industrial combinations, the industry of our agricultural machinery, the support of young couples who want to return to the countryside and a number of other topics that are for emergency procedures. This isn't for an emergency procedure. This is being ordered by the EU's Brussels commissioners, who you have served since you were brought to power, congratulating Tomislav Nikolic three hours before the polls closed victory in the second round of the 2012 presidential elections. You hereby repay the debt you have in Brussels, because Brussels has brought you to power and you are the servants of Brussels in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19412	The word is Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go. (Zoran Krasic: On what basis? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19413	Because I am an MP in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, dear counterpart Krasic, I am probably entitled to say something in this senseless speech, since I cannot say that the debate was at stake, about an amendment to Article 1. Perhaps I can say something in this general debate about the inability to be elected by Serbian citizens in greater numbers than you are here in the O.R. So it is extremely difficult to say at all that a certain number of MPs asked to delete Article 1 of the amendment and the addition of the law that we have before us, because now that you ask these MPs what exactly it says in Article 1 you wouldn't know any of them to tell you, absolutely none. So, everyone came here with a story, let's sell fog today all day, and we'll say that we've submitted the amendment "expunge Article 1. " What exactly do I care about, and I'd like to have a debate about exactly what MPs are looking for to erase? What is it about this article 1 without being taken to read it physically? The Stabilisation and Association Agreement is not something that was brought in, signed a few days ago. I am only saying this because of the citizens of Serbia, because the fog sellers, my esteemed colleagues who were forced here into parliament less than a year ago, because they were somewhere around the censors, and then certain officials of our various great friends, the embassy, somehow tried to get the fog dealers into this parliament, and to distract the citizens of Serbia about how phenomenal it would be if Serbian citizens recognized their political ideas, just can't hear what kind of political idea it is, "Delete Article 1" and what we will get if we delete Article 1 of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. So the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was adopted in 2008. If someone doesn't know who it was to win the campaign, then take YouTube and review Boris Tadic and DS's election campaign, which is why they overshadowed Serbian citizens in 2008. That's exactly why they didn't want to delete Article 1. Stabilisation and Association Agreements rather than negotiate badly, because they needed it for the campaign. The citizens of Serbia were eager for some changes, so to get close to the EU, so they voted, as we will have some Stabilisation and Association Agreement, not knowing what these bad provisions were made and Boris Tadic won the opening of the Zare, believe it or not, because these two were the backbones of the campaign. We have a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, so no one knew what it was, as you don't know today, and we have the Zara. Can you imagine, we've got a "Isra's" boutique? Serbian citizens voted for it and did not vote to delete Article 1. Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act. What's going on now, 2017? The Serbian Progressive Party continues to see one of our country's foreign policy priorities as becoming a full member of the EU one day and not voting west, but voted Serbian citizens. Thank God, we have elections every year, two and a SNS each time says what our foreign policy priority is and Serbian citizens are increasingly voting. We can't help you. Your story won't be heard. They don't care about that three steps backwards, ten steps back. They don't care about that. (Bosko Obradovic: Whose story? ) Of those who believe that Article 1 of the amendment and addition of the Law on Agricultural Land should be deleted. We just heard a very pessimistic attitude about the citizens of Serbia. Some Serbian citizens who go to the elections and vote to continue implementing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, 56% voted for such a president of the state who promised it, called some people from the West or I don't know who we imported to come here to vote. No, people from the village voted here, people from the cities voted, I voted, my neighbor voted, those from Gornja Trepce voted. All voted for Alexander Vukic and SNS policy and not to delete Article 1 in these amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act, but to fix it as much as possible, because Boris Tadic has made a disaster. He told people that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as negotiated at the time in 2008, was something genius. You, if you are a serious politician, statesman, can't say everything that Boris Tadic did now, all what Vojislav Kostunica did, what Djelic signed, because Djelic was authorized to sign the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, it no longer applies, we are now in 2017, life begins from the beginning. It's not starting. Serious statesmen stick to what they signed and try to fix. Don't make it up, please, to scare the citizens of Serbia into sharing and selling themselves to strangers. Which foreigners are given something and sold with the help of this amendment and the addition of the Agricultural Land Act? What, what? What's that gonna worry the peasants in Futoga or Morovic from tomorrow morning after your discussions? What, with a gun to keep that thing around, or in the village of Gornja Trepca? You're just selling the fog, telling the truth, telling the truth. Write -- delete, article 1 is deleted, and then you get up here and we talk for four and a half hours about self-management, of course, as mainstream about Alexander Vukic, because I don't know what you'd be talking about anyway. Without Alexander Vukic, you wouldn't have a political idea, you wouldn't have a political idea, and you wouldn't have a SNS. What is this idea, to abolish the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, today, at this session, when we discuss amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act? Should we take the land of Saric? I don't hear you rebelling about it, about a drug dealer who picked up the entire Vojvodina. No, you're working with Bojan Pajtic, because Bojan Pajtic was the president of DS, who helped, right here, replicate to me as much as you want, "The Dvorim" to begin. You were created with the help of DS and Bojan Pajtic, who made you to take away some SNS votes, but failed. Of course, nothing needs to be erased. Delete what? If I'd heard four hours of discussion today about what's wrong with Article 1 of the Law, I might have been hesitated to vote for that amendment. Delete what? To erase Serbia's political life from beginning until 2017? If we can discuss an amendment, that would be nice, if not, I'll continue to discuss how my dear colleagues are discussing it. There's a lot of things, and I'm going to try and scare the citizens, but just in the opposite direction, it's going to be a disaster if Article 1. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, better not to get up tomorrow morning, because if we don't delete it, here are some foreigners from all over the world breaking into their land, hijacking their private land, carrying them to their countries, no Serbia, everything has fallen apart. Well, that's what it looks like. I will give myself the right, and don't warn me to discuss it the same way as the MPs who have been discussing cataclysm since 10:00 this morning if we don't delete Article 1. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, and in the morning, we all get up because it's going to happen again, Houston, but there's no water and no floods, but some terrible foreigners are coming to take away what little we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19414	Thank you. I couldn't agree more. We continue to work exclusively according to the amendments. I think it's been a couple of hours... (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. The name of the parliamentary group is mentioned. ) According to the amendments. On Article 1 of the amendment, they are together... (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. The name of the parliamentary group is mentioned. ) (Srdian Nogo: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Please don't throw it away. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. She mentioned the name of the parliamentary group. She gave her speech. We're going through the amendments. Please don't throw it away. I don't want to argue any further. We need to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (Bosko Obradovic: That's exactly what we're looking for. I'm setting a one-minute break. [[after breaks]] We can get started. The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic, a replica. (Bosko Obradovic: You have no right to do this! What are you playing at? What are you doing? I give you a warning to throw away. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19416	You've made up my report a little bit. I wanted to call on Article 107, that MPs are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. In these benches, it was said that the MP Bosko Obradovic, in his custom and his understanding of the jurisdiction and respect of the dignity of the National Assembly, casts and shouts to the chairman, "What are you playing, what are you acting like?" I think that once we should all stand here together, draw the line and tell MP Bosko Obradovic that this is not a self-servant who drinks beer and throws himself at people and tells them what you're acting like and what you're not acting like. It may not mean much to him, but there are no other instruments. If you remember, I suggested that we do community service, so everyone attacked me for it, to leave these financial penalties aside, to do humanitarian work, to help children, to go to homes for carefree children, for old and weary. They might also understand something about the essence of Serbia's dignity and this parliament, and financial penalties are not helping. But please, Article 108(2) gives you the opportunity to give a warning, so think about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19417	Thank you. I've already said a warning. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Maya Gojkovic: After you gave the warning, no. Thank you. (Srdian Nogo: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. We can move on with our work. (Srdian Nogo: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has been given by the MP Srdjan Nogo, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19418	Mr. Marinkovic, what you're doing is indeed a scandal and the legal violence you're committing here over the MPs. The Rules of Procedure guarantee all MPs the right to be identical, regardless of whether the government or the opposition, and here seems to be the right to point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure only has...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19419	Which member was injured?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19420	Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, which gives me, too, to the People's MP, and to any other People's MP of 250 of us here, that at the session we orally indicate that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. You gave me this right earlier very harshly, setting a break of one minute, and then, as the session began, you gave me the right to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure of our fellow MP and Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic. Why does Maja Gojkovic have any special rights to us? I really don't think it's right for discrimination to be done that way. Just an hour ago, Mr. Marinkovic, you used to turn off the microphone here, interrupt the presentation of the president of the Dveri parliamentary group, and in her presentation, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic violated Article 107, when she called the MPs fog dealers and gave various other qualifications.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19421	Only I can, only the President can hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19422	Mr Marinkovic, you have a double archival, and in the course of the presentation of the MPs, you do not even allow us to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I really don't think it's right to deny us our basic rights. And, please, let's get rid of it more once in the National Assembly, which is why Kyle Scott is blackmailing Vukic that this guy has to listen to him, as Maja Gojkovic says.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19423	Thank you. (Alexander Martinovic: This is for a warning, you have offended the National Assembly. I agree, so I will not continue to allow this work of the National Assembly. We're finally moving on. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Jesic, Maja Vidinović, Veroljub Stevanović, Vesna Marjanović and Radoslav Milojic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19424	Thank you. The amendment we have made leaves behind the words – if this law is not otherwise set, and leaves with the provision that there is no sale of the land to natural persons, in accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, because that is enough. You do not need to refer to specific provisions allowing you to buy and to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Either one or the other. If, as most people here claim, it's clear to everyone what's in the article. 53rd and 55th, one and two, in the Agreement, then the team had previously been important to accept this amendment. As a reason for the refusal of the amendment, the government said the law was adopted in order to allow for the sale of the country and for this to again state the reason for the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Our amendments to this amendment include the application of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as it does not commit any of its provisions to the concession and sale of agricultural land. It speaks of an equal approach, and each of the Member States, the accession states themselves, determines how it will make available to immovable property or agricultural land. In addition to the expected refusal to accept this amendment, both this amendment and everyone else have one procedural interest. On the Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee, as the whole bill had procedural interest because there were no members of the 85 in the constitutional basis for the reasoning, and this was called for, with an explanation that we were not able to write Article 85 at the Committee's session on amendments. At the previous session of the Committee, I warned that there was no business opportunity to vote grouply on amendments and asked them to make the rules, decisions, whatever they wanted, to put it in order, and that, if everything was very upset and they were very bored reading and voting on each amendment, to bring it in line with the basic procedure of voting on amendments to the Committee. Today, however, there has been a group vote on amendments, one on all amendments. The electronic system of the National Assembly does not know the group vote and cannot be a group vote, so I prayed that at least it should be avoided, so that, and so it happened, it voted without an electronic system. It's not good. Not good for the Assembly, not good for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, not good for the government. It doesn't matter whether I support this government or not, it's not good and it can't be called so sloppyly so important to the media, to forget Article 85, so we can discuss whether it's the basis or not and that the National Assembly decides that it's bored to vote on every amendment. Finally, I promised the members of the Committee that I would propose then and at the plenary session, so on Voting Day, no matter how many laws there are on the agenda and no matter how many amendments there are, we should vote once. Why not? If the Committee can hold a group vote on 43 amendments, it may also hold a session of the Assembly in the Day to vote on 300 amendments, or a group vote on as many laws as it is on the agenda. In particular, for the chairman of the voting day, it is a serious task, tiredness and need concentration and more. If that's true of the board, then it can be true of the tide. Since it cannot apply to the Committee, I ask you to be more careful to approach the regulation procedure, the procedure is culture and to begin to respect our own regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19425	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19426	The Honorable Chairman, I am fascinated by your leadership session. A long time ago, 45 minutes ago, I answered...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19427	We're talking about the amendment, not my running session.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19428	Of course, I'm an authorized promoter who called an hour ago, and you're making a circus.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19429	Just you about the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19430	You didn't listen to the president, where she read you a letter about how the session was conducted.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19431	Just keep talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19432	Of course, I'm talking about the amendment and don't interrupt me. Please be normal, just a little bit. Dear Member Maja Gojkovic criticised this about eradicating the amendment. As you've seen, MPs, we haven't deleted, but we're trying to fix it for various reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19433	Buddy, we've moved on to the second amendment. You need to know about the amendment...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19434	Will you explain what amendment I'm on?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19435	Just keep talking about the amendment that's being discussed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19436	First, you come to your senses and listen to the president... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19437	I give you a warning, colleague Jesic. If you can, continue on the amendment. (Goran Jesic: I don't know why you applaud, so the president criticised him for not knowing how to work. I'm trying to... (Goran Jesic: You know nothing. )......................................................................................................... I give you my word... (Goran Jesic: Maja, come back to the presidency. I give you a second warning. If you can, like other colleagues, talk about the amendment, the amendment to Article 1 is ahead of us, as is Mrs. Comic before you. Please, let's talk about it, let the debate be civilized, argued, without such hard words. (Goran Jesic: I cannot discuss with you. Don't you want to talk? (Goran Jesic: You cannot discuss with me. Do you want to talk? Are you going to sign up to talk about the amendment or not? (Goran Jesic: You let the president talk about everything and everything. Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19438	Thank you. Let's try to get back to the agenda, because as it started, I see we have a very fast break coming from at least one minute, which is your practice to do when you lose control of the session. Maybe you should rest. When the agreement was negotiated on 1 September 2017, the deadline worked very far and was likely to assume that the deadline would not be a problem. However, we have been slow to lead European integration and have been poorly guided and that deadline has arrived. In five years, the ruling majority may have been able to apply some legal remedy and do something with that member for whom, in this three-day debate, claims that the burden for it is not right and shifts, in its manner, to previous authorities. Maybe in five years, something could have been done with that member. For God's sake, it took five years for the whole agreement to be negotiated. I guess there was something to be done with that one member in those five years. However, nothing has been done, we came three days before the end of the deadline and now, of course, we have an emergency procedure for the adoption of the law, an emergency session, we are in a great hurry and we are getting a legal solution that, even cosmetically, we cannot fix with amendments. Whether or not it will be in accordance with the agreement will be tried by the other party in the agreement. So, we have proposed by amendment that Article 1 which opens up the possibility for EU citizens to buy agricultural land in Serbia and acquire ownership right over it, this possibility, this legal provision that introduces the principle of reciprocity, because this principle of reciprocity exists in our legislation when it comes to the right of foreign natural persons to acquire property in the country of Serbia, and also of goods of general importance, such as agricultural land. The principle of reciprocity that we have proposed in the amendment has not been accepted by the Government. I suppose the argument is, I don't know what the argument is, I haven't heard it, but I suppose the argument is that this may not be in line with the SAA, or what is the case, the previous speaker said that we are providing treatment for EU citizens to buy agricultural land in our country, and the conditions of each EU member state can regulate it itself, and then I guess we too could act quite Europeanly, so I don't see anything in our amendment against Europeans, and introduce a principle of reciprocity, instead of failing to do so, which is why we put our citizens in an unequal position compared to some citizens of some EU Member States, as Hungary and neighbouring Croatia. That's what we talked about in the tide. So why haven't we introduced the principle of reciprocity and equalised the treatment of our citizens when it comes to the right to acquire agricultural land in Croatia with the right of Croatian citizens to acquire agricultural land in Serbia? I don't see anything anti-European about it. Therefore, EU member states have the right to introduce certain levels of restrictions on the rights of parties or other EU citizens, other Member States to acquire agricultural land, I do not see why we could not, but we have left our citizens in an unequal position in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19439	Thank you, colleague Gjuric. The word is Zoran Zivkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19440	Thank you very much. The proposal aims to limit, i.e. to practically prevent the sale of agricultural land in Serbia to foreigners. It's done in a way that's inefficient, which means it won't be prevented, and it's also nakarad in its intention. First, how can we pass a law that will apply only to the citizens of some countries and not to all? Why isn't that true for citizens of Russia, Kenya, China, India, Brazil, Moldova? What's the explanation for that? There is no reason, of course, that you know my attitude towards the EU, of course we belong there and that we should do everything we can to be there as soon as possible, but why not give it to others? The other thing is that regardless of how it intends to prevent a chance to buy Serbian agricultural land largely by foreigners, it is possible today and we talked about it. So it's not a question of which law it is possible, the question is whether or not it is possible. It is possible that any stranger can come, for between 50 and 150 euros to start a business in Serbia and buy all the country across Serbia through the 100 per cent foreign-owned enterprise. So if four million acres of private property is for sale one day, he can buy four million acres. I have already said of some unusual examples, such as this Thompson who sings Ustasha songs, he can buy by establishing a company called "Serbian Advanced Company" and through this firm to buy whatever he wants in Serbia, and of course there is no problem and you have allowed your coalition partners in Kosovo and other parliaments, Hashim Thaci, Haradinaj, Pacolli, I don't know who, right now, to buy what he wants, as much as he wants as a natural person or as the owner of a legal person, because they are Serbian citizens, by preamble and by the way you communicate with them. So this is a farce. You can try for days, you can send to the benches and the president of parliament and vice presidents and whoever you want, you can bring here the president of the state to defend this bill, it's pointless and the citizens of Serbia see it. Since you're doing research every half hour who thinks of something in Serbia, then on Sunday, such research has been done, and that's why you've been given a warrant today that you have to sit here all day and talk about what you're saying. The effect of this law is between 0.0 and 0.000, so absolutely nothing prevents it. The previous question is whether such a law should be passed at all, is there at all a danger and some great lure to the purchase of the Serbian country? I didn't notice her. There's a trick in getting it free, like your Arab brothers, "Tenis," I don't know who doesn't, Cherkezi, I don't know how, but you should trust the minister, I guess he knows. They get it for free, they get it practically free, what shopping, there's nothing about it. What's the obligation? Zero commitment, 20 grand, 20 grand. It's a company, like that German "Tenis", which aims to destroy Serbian...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19441	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19442	What time? I've got six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19443	Time has been spent, colleague Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19444	Who took the time?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19445	It's been spent. You can check it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19446	Congratulations.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19447	Thank you, and so do you. The word is Maja Gojkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19448	Thank you. I'll try to use only the words my esteemed predecessor used. I propose not to accept the amendment because it is pointless, I mean only to quote in contrast the arguments of the honourable MP who spoke before me and who represents the farce. So that's how we communicate here in parliament when we want to convince fellow MPs from other parliamentary groups to support us. It's best to say it's pointless, it's farce, it's quite so democratic, it's nice, it's classy, it's cultural. Maybe voters who voted for someone on the other side of our hall have changed their minds, so they start voting for us because we started using these words as an argument to accept some amendment, that everything is pointless and that it's something farce. Then we move on, to convince the honourable MPs from other MPs' groups, so we begin to invent something. It is likely that these days due to climate change, people are having a bad night's sleep, and then people are waking up and imagining that someone has given the order to the MPs of the Republic of Serbia to come forward today for a word and to talk about the pointless and farce amendments of MPs who have made the effort to write them in the same way as the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made an effort to change the provisions of the 2008 badly negotiated SAA and to prevent the sale of countries to foreigners. Thank you very much, Minister, you didn't do this in an emergency procedure. You handed over your bill at the end of July, so there's no speech from the urgency of the procedure, because now we're, as far as I know, on August 28th. It's been a month, if anyone sees it's urgent in a month, then let them change the rules of the Rules of Procedure, so let the laws of today stand for six months. As for some of these, I don't know whose friends, Thompson, I guess that means something to someone here in the O.R., it doesn't mean anything to me, I don't know who it is, but I know about Badget Pacolli. Please, because often some MPs use the name of this gentleman, Badžet Pacolli, just to determine exactly and to show up to the Serbian Parliament and citizens when he correctly registered the company in the Republic of Serbia, Belgrade, when he started working in the Republic of Serbia, and then to stop talking about Badžet Pacolli showing up in our country's business life and political life in 2017. It seems to me that Badget Pacolli, I'm not going to be giving up that information, but I'm waiting for those who are full of mouths here that friends of the president of the state will be insulted, so they say that his friend Badjet Pacolli, suddenly here, is doing something in our country or buying land. I only ask that the register be removed from the company when Badget Pacolli began to carry out economic activity in the Republic of Serbia and who was then the minister, who was the president of the state, so let us continue this fine senseless and farsical discussion on the amendment to Article 1, and the second amendment we are discussing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19449	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The word is Vladimir Djuric. Here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19450	To remind citizens of Serbia, the amendment requires the introduction of a principle of reciprocity, among other things, for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be brought into the same position as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In the Republic of Croatia, which is a full member of the EU foreign citizens, even those who are citizens of EU Member States cannot buy the country. In the Republic of Serbia, with the effect of this law under some, true restrictive but still under certain conditions, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be able to buy the country. That is the proposal of the ruling majority, the government of the Republic of Serbia. I asked the amendment to introduce reciprocity, if we can't get to them, neither can they with us. It's not anti-European, it's only fair, it's in our interest. I thank the previous speaker for calling such an amendment meaningless and farce. Let the citizens hear it. I could have applied for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I didn't, because I don't want to take the time to expose myself, even though whoever's in charge of this House keeps doing it and watching as many ways as possible make it impossible for the opposition to speak. And it's finally not true that the law arrived in the Assembly in the middle of July. The president of the assembly should know that and not say what is not true. Working number 033202209/17, date of receipt on the business stamp on 14 August 2017. I don't mind, let's get along right now, the law is small, short, there are only four members. There's been plenty of time, but this is all I'm telling the truth for the sake of it. So, when I talk about the urgency of the procedure and the urgency of the session, I don't blame the fact that we received the law on time, or not early enough, "okay" is for four members, not a problem, but it is a provision of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement that was concluded five years ago. Five years. We are discussing this four days before the deadline, because this is how you implemented European integration and thus contributed to the rise, needless rise of Euroscepticism in the Serbian electoral body. And so now you cultivate xenophobia and the famous fear of strangers that they will come here and buy all our land, and we will remain hungry. So, I'm just telling the truth for the will, and thank you again for thinking that the amendment is farsical and that it's farciable to equalise the legal treatment of Serbian and Croatian citizens with regard to obtaining the right of immobility mutually. Thank you, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19451	Thank you. The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go. (Zoran Krasic: On what basis? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19452	On the basis of being an MP for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I hope by the end of this term, and that Zoran Krasic will not take away my right to speak as others. So, in full compliance with the Rules of Procedure. When the president or president wants to speak, sit down, come in. I expected everyone to say on what basis, except for the honourable MP who's been here for 27 years, no matter what. On August 4th, the government passed this bill. Maybe I was wrong when I said when he showed up at the office. So, the urgency of the procedure for four members trying to correct a badly negotiated Stabilisation and Association Agreement, less, more, whether it took another day, two, three, five, maybe I would accept it if we were to talk about the amendments, and not talk about Thompson and Badžet Pacolli today, or not to talk about who the party founded. I don't think that's what Serbian citizens are interested in right now. There are elections for that, they go out and vote, so my God. But I really can't agree when an MP from one of the parliamentary groups doesn't listen to the head of his parliamentary group who used to sow fear here today about the possibility that some bad foreigners would come here and buy everything. So, just as the head of his parliamentary group was talking about how some foreigners will come here and buy all of our Serbian land, pack in bags and take them to their country and Serbia will no longer exist. That was the sound of a discussion by the distinguished head of the parliamentary group, an MP who now disagrees with his head of Parliament's position. Okay. That's allowed. We'll see what different attitudes will bring to you in the future, probably some political cacophony within that parliamentary group. But what I said, and what an MP deliberately twists here, is trying to convince us that we need to adopt his amendment, because it's good. That's what we'll see at the vote, yes or no, most MPs will say. He purposely said that I, only about his amendment, said that he was senseless and farsical, and he wouldn't hear or deliberately avoid the fact that I was paraphrasing in fact the discussion of the MPs, I don't see if he was still there, from the front row, who said the law was pointless, that he was farsical, that Article 2 is such and so is. Well, then, I say, exactly, let me use the same words, because it seems to be allowed in this House, so I said that something senseless and farsical. So, you should listen well, I guess most people here are educated, educated, can follow a thread in the presentation of most MPs in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, not only pulls two or three words out of exposure and deliberately twists. Let me tell you, I won't vote for your amendment, and you use some stronger arguments, so maybe you'll hesitate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19453	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19454	I'll agree with my colleague Gojkovic that this is farsical. Otherwise, if we'd adopted something like this, if the citizens knew the condition of our so-called publicity. We would essentially lead our citizens into a subordinate position compared to strangers. That's the point. Because if you find me a stranger today who will come to the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in some municipality, say the Landland, live there for 10 years to buy two acres of land, please, who are you kidding here? Otherwise, this law puts such a thing that a fundamental stranger, in order to fulfill what the SAA can, and essentially cannot buy land and that is the point. As for the company and the company, how did they not object when Todorovic was buying? How come the Croatian tycoon didn't bother them? How does it suddenly bother them if someone came from any other country, but let's say Todorovic didn't bother them, and he bought them here and the combinations and took the agricultural land, etc.? Once again to the citizens, a foreign company can set up a business in Serbia and that is the essence of establishing a business in Serbia, it is a Serbian firm and paying taxes here, so that it can possibly buy here. But I'm afraid really, given that someone to this extent has ruined our agriculture over the past few years, I'm not sure how many are interested, and I'd like it to have them because it strengthens competition. That makes our producer and farmer work better. So he says, don't "Tenis" come to us here, he'll ruin our pigmeat producers, as if we've now had very strong pigmeat producers, so we don't know how much, it was the price of live scales. What are we people talking about here? It's just that individuals want to protect the interest of certain tycoons here so they have a monopoly and that's the essence. Because they're afraid of competition and let's talk straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19455	Thank you. The word is Gordana Komic, an injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19456	Thank you. A member of 106 who obliges you to remind the MPs that they are talking about the agenda and Article 27 which obliges you to apply the Rules of Procedure at the meeting of the National Assembly. The presentation just now, by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, had nothing to do with the content of the amendments and the presentation of two MPs before that, which you also estimated had nothing to do with it. They were interrupted by you, questioned when they would start talking about the amendment and of course, which is your discretionary right, they were warned. However, it is not your discretionary right to seek the respect of the 106th member of Parliament depending on his name. You have no right to do that. It's a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19457	Thank you. I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure. (Gordana Komic: Yes, you have violated the Rules of Procedure. Our perceptions are simply different. I think Mr. Djukanovic... (Gordana Comic: Yes, you have violated because in the amendment of which it is, there is no talking about selling legal persons, no talking about Croats... He talks about the amendment all the time. Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. The National MPs Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic, together Vjerica Rade, Nemanja Sarović, Milorad Mirčić, Miljan Damjanović, Vesna Nikolić Vukajlović, Natasa Jovanovic, Petar Jojic, Zoran Krasić and Tomislav LJubenović, together Boško Obradović, Srđan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic, together Gordana Čomić, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozović, Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ješić, Maja Djenović, Veroljub Stevanović, Vesna Marjanović and Radoslav Milojic and together Zoran Živić, Marinika Tepić, Jovanović, Jovanović and Sonja Žalnadjana Žalja Radanja Radanović and Radanja Radović. Does anyone want a word? The word is Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19458	Thank you, Chairman. With this amendment, the DSS is proposing that Article 2 be deleted. In fact, Chapter 5 of the Agricultural Land Act, which applies, defines the use of agricultural land. Section 2 defines the use of agricultural land in state property and subsection 2.2. the transport of agricultural land in state property. You are changing the name of this subsection to – the transport of agricultural land, so you are leaving out the provision – in state property. All so that, above all methodologically, I am not a lawyer, but you, if a lawyer, explain to me how methodologically you can in the Law in a subsection that defines state property to insert a later member who defines the transport of land in private property. So, simply, it's unacceptable. If you are still determined to pave the way for the sale of private agricultural land, put in a new section, a new subsection, a new point and define it nicely, methodologically, as the request requires. But the problem is, Mr. Minister, that you don't really want to see the essential problems related to the overall state of agricultural land in Serbia, whether it's in cooperative property, state property, in private property, whether it's a land of agricultural combinations, which has been sold to tens of thousands of hectares for years and mixed with it from tycoon domestic to, here, now foreign tycoons. Because you're bypassing the problem of agricultural land traffic when it comes to legal persons. Here, you touch that, systematically look at this problem and let us systematically solve, supplement and amend this agricultural land law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19459	Thank you, Mrs. Gajic. The word is Ivan Kostic. Here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19460	Dear MPs, citizens of Serbia, Mr Nedimovic, it is absolutely normal for the opposition group to have an attitude to delete Article 2. So no one should be surprised why, because we have a clear view of Serbia's EU accession process and that the Serbian DVERI Movement has had that view for five years. So our political stance has changed nothing and it shows one consistency that there are people who know what they want and what agricultural policy should look like in Serbia. We here today have different opinions within the ruling coalition, which does not even know whether these amendments have led to EU fraud or to continue the SAA and EU accession. So, the environment minister said yesterday that all state-owned drinking water resources sold should return to ownership of the Serbian state. And we're passing a law that sells state land to foreigners. We have opposition parties that are for this law to work. The Sprski movement DVERI considers that it is not right and that this Article 2. It doesn't matter. So we've already talked about what's going to happen to a social land owned by private combinations? What about that land that's been sold to foreigners in the past? Whether a privatisation review process will be launched, where you today have an Agrokor which is in debt, which is in bankruptcy. What will happen to six thousand acres of Agrokora land? What's going to happen to five thousand and 200 acres of PKB's social country? These are the things this law was supposed to solve. This law has brought nothing new on land policy. That's why the representatives of many agricultural associations have seen through this intention of yours. Since Saturday, you have several agricultural associations presidents who have declared that this is a harmful law for Serbian farmers. You have a member of the SANU, the Committee on Agriculture who is against this law. You have representatives of the Association of Farmers, you have analysts from the PKK, so you didn't get support from any of the agricultural associations for this law. It might just be from some of your party partners who fit this. The same tycoons from the time of DS are your tycoons today. Today you are funded, trespassed in land properties in Sombor, Kula and Vrbas municipalities. So, you should have looked back at the Serbian farmer, the agricultural owners, given the country for free for ten years, and not given foreign tycoons to come, and that will soon convince the people to sell the PKK and see through the meaning of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19461	Thank you, colleague Kostic. The word has Minister Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19462	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, I am pleased that the debate on amendments has returned to the debates in one fundamental way. I want to talk about this amendment that you've talked about a few things about before. It's a matter of craftsmanship, technical nature with regard to determining chapters and all other things, sections and other parts of how you're going to put something on. What's the essence of the whole story, is, fellow, you keep saying it over and over again, "is deleted," in terms of your attitude, your political attitude as you consider it necessary to edit this matter. The fact is, he has a completely different idea. The European Union is one of the pillars of the country's foreign policy. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement is one of the tools that regulates all matter during the pre-accession period. If we were just to be on that line, and there's no law like this that we're trying to do, once again, because of the public, to fix what's missing in the SAA, we'd have twice in front of us. One way is not to pass a law like this and to suffer the consequences of not adopting a procedure relating to Article 63(2) of the SAA. I just didn't get a chance to take advantage of it before, and now I'd take advantage of it, and it's bound to be our obligation to comply with our legislation, not just to apply the SAA. The second time we have chosen is to provide for special conditions in order to put additional conditions unlike other EU citizens to seek agricultural land in Serbia's territory. In this way we completely, in one system way, try to fix things that the SAA are not doing in a good way, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19463	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the law from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break from one hour to 14.55 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19464	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19465	Mr. Arsic, just to remind you of how far we've arrived, it's an amendment to Article 2 where the name subsection is changed. Let's make some continuity, since whoever followed the transmission this morning could have gotten the wrong picture of what this is all about. I remind the Government's representative that we are on the subject – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. The government asked for him to be brought in by emergency procedure. Just to remind me that the Agricultural Land Act was passed in July 2006, and was changed in the summer of 2008, and a new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia came in late 2006. The next change was in 2009. So those who were in power in 2009 did not find it appropriate to amend this law because they have an obligation under the SAA and accession. To remind me that in 2015 this law and the one who changed the law also knew that it had an obligation under the SAA, but did not want to bring it into line with the SAA. This is important to know, because no constitutional change has happened in the meantime, so if it was constitutional, it forbids the sale of agricultural land to foreigners, then this drastic change – it's allowed to sell, or it's unconstitutional or something else. Let me now return to this amendment to Article 2. I think you made a mistake. Why? When a legal person is to declare his will, then it is to be done by general acts, and an individual legal act is to specify that will. When a natural person, a citizen, declares his will, God knows what, some form, is enough to sign a contract. Provisions concerning the transport of agricultural land in state property had to remain with that subtitle. If that subtitle is changed and it is said – the transport of agricultural land, then you put everything in the same basket and it must not be done, because then you practically brought into the same position agricultural land in the state property and agricultural land in private property. We have submitted this amendment to draw your attention to the fact that those old titles remain, because everything in this subtitle is essentially about the transport of agricultural land in the state property. What you've changed and what you're changing to the next member, it's a completely different story that shouldn't affect titles and subtitles. This is a purely legal-technical amendment, in order to maintain what is the practice of writing regulations in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19466	The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Radet, please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19467	Thank you. Members of the SRS, we have proposed to delete Article 2. The bill, but today's morning session was quite interesting, for the MPs of the congregation's majority were trying to be quite offensive to the amendments of the MPs who sought to delete this member, and the entire course of the session was not exactly in line with the Rules of Procedure. We haven't called to intervene, because we're not lawyers of any parliamentary group, but we really need to be accounted for, you of the congregation majority, you should be aware that the atmosphere in parliament is creating exactly the congregation's majority, just because there's more time to speak. One of the reasons why it is not necessary to accept amendments where it is proposed to delete the law was some message to the citizens that when a member is written to be deleted, that it means nothing, because it does not mean one member, which means, and then it was a question, that it was a question, that no MP who proposed to delete a member of the amendment actually knows what it says in that article, and that, my dear, was very offensive, but the chairman did not respond, because apparently today he had some other task and was completely outside of the Rules of Procedure. It was also said by one of the ruling majority MPs that MPs should be fluctuated. Of course, it has again referred to these amendments that we have submitted to this bill, precisely because we are very serious, we have not responded to the Rules of Procedure at that time, and there have been absolute possibilities and precisely because we are extremely serious and we are very responsible for this job, we have suggested that Article 2 be deleted. It's a bill of law. What is mentioned in this bill is what it is, what are the conditions when agricultural land can be sold to natural or legal persons, it is only a confirmation of what we have been saying for three days and we claim that this law should never have been passed, because this law legalises the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. You can be as angry as you want, but you have no right, you have no argument to tell us that's not the case, and whoever has an argument, take it out. It's no argument, that's what the SAA says, so now we're postponing the SAA for 10 years. I'm sorry, that's not an argument. That argument goes in favor of our position that this law should not be passed. The MP from the congregation’s majority cannot say that he cannot listen to an MP explaining his amendment and not reacting to the chairman. That's totally regular. If he can't listen, he can come out, this door around isn't locked. The MP can, must and should speak of any bill, including this. What you don't like, what the public of Serbia finds out in these three days that you've actually been deluding yourself into banning this law from selling agricultural land to foreigners, that's your problem. As it is not true that Serbian citizens have also voted, as has been said here, not to delete Article 1 of this law. Such a cartoonation is indeed inappropriate for those who have said it to the National Assembly. Serbian citizens voted among other things because you made false promises in the campaign, because you promised in the campaign that you would advocate joining the EU, but that you would not let anyone from the EU humiliate you, that you would not put KIM ahead of Eurointegration, and you are doing both. Where you will be more humiliated than what is announced today in the media, that, as some Shipatory statement appeared from their government, so-called. Governments and says – Thaci and Vukic will exchange views on the follow-up...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19468	Comrade Radet, I ask you to talk about the amendment. You've had plenty of time here for four and a half minutes for the opening presentation, but please talk about the amendment now, just ask for a word again, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19469	All right, colleague Arsic. Here, I talked all the time about this proposal and this amendment. You are constantly trying to force the MPs into some of your clichés, talk, say – go back to the amendment, so this is all about the amendment, all of this is about the SAA, and you are telling us that we do not know what it says in this law, and your minister says that he is calling for Article 62. A law that only has four members, and then he says he meant an agreement. I don't know what he meant, I know what he said. So, we and how do we know what we're talking about, and you can't force us into something that you'd like to hear, because today we're also from someone who's been talking about the amendment all of what I'm talking about right now, all of this is actually a reference to what the MPs of most today were saying in the afternoon and no one has turned their attention to not talking about the amendment. If you ask me and you don't need to, because an MP should speak the way he thinks he should speak, the MPs respond to their parties to the citizens of Serbia. You let us take care of ourselves on that side, but you say, says one MP that the Serbian government is with this member, she told the whole law, but I say to this member, suggested that this law be said to change the bad provisions of the SAA. As possible by Article 2. A bill adopted by the National Assembly to change what is written in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in this act adopted in 2008 in this House? And I will repeat, therefore, you are right when you say that this agreement has been brought by another congregation majority, by another regime, by another government, etc. That's absolutely true, but it does not relieve you of responsibility because you proceeded the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19470	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19471	Vice President Arsic, I'm advertising Article 27. The Rules of Procedure which speaks of our rights and obligations when it comes to respect for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you are now in a position to replace the current presidency of Maja Gojkovic, but you are in no way in a position to interrupt the speaker and no one but the President, but according to the Rules of Procedure in certain conditions that Mr Branko can tell you that he is sufling you as well as you interrupted fellow Radeta, you were so lost that you referred to her as a male, because you did so to the supplication of Aleksandr Martinović. Don't ever abuse the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly again, and if it is done to someone, here's to Martinovic, tomorrow to someone else, Ljubishi, I don't know who, Serbs, that I don't bid them, although no one asks them anything, but come on, to interrupt the MP when they're... In line with what it says in Article 2 or the explanation of the amendments, as the whole of Serbia knows, Mr Arsic that when Martinovic reports for the discussion, he has no idea what it says in the amendment, and the whole of Serbia also knows...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19472	My colleague Jovanovic, are you talking about my injury to the Rules of Procedure? All right. (Natasa Jovanovic: Why did you turn off my microphone? ) Just to inform you that you are in the same Rules of Procedure, all MPs are obliged to adhere to the agenda. I have widely interpreted the Rules of Procedure and applied that provision and allowed Mr. Radeti, allowed Mr. Radeti to in a very broad way, a colleague of Radeti to conduct a rather broad discussion on the amendment she submitted. So, I don't see where I went wrong in applying the Rules of Procedure, except maybe I should have done it before. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? All right. My colleague Chabrai, you asked for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19473	We also suggested that this article be deleted, except for a controversial constitutional basis, which I had already said by explaining the previous amendment and which some of my colleagues spoke about a lot. We believe that the fundamental problem of this proposal is to change and supplement not only that it does not improve even if the solution that it has already been made, but rather worsens them in principle can always be worse or faster and stronger, it further endangers the interests of Serbian citizens and I think that in this sense this member, whose erasure we have proposed is very symptomatic and symbolic, would say our neighbours. With this change, the syntagma in state property is wiped out, becoming only conditions for the transport of agricultural land. If we know what this state property is and how it was created, and it was mainly created by nationalization of confiscation and in a way that was then contrary to some European measures, standards, and instead of the restitution being carried out, that land return and compensation was carried out to the original owners, even this term “state” is now deleted. Does this mean that this government no longer considers this state property to be state property, but I guess that land considers private property, so it evens it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19474	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 3rd of the amendment in the same text, MPs: Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic, together Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović, Milorad Mirčić, Miljan Damjanović, Sreto Perić, Miroslava Stanković Đuričić, Božidar Delić, Zoran Krasić, Filip Stojanović and Marina Ristić, together Bosko Obradović, Srđan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesić and Prof. Dr Miladin Ševarlic, together Zoran Zivković, Marinika Tepić, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlović and Aleksandra Cabraj and together Saša Radulović and Nenad Bož. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19475	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With this Article 3 of the Law amending the Law on Agricultural Land, you are, in fact, coming up with these fundamental changes, which is why these changes are before us. Namely, you, this member, newly introduced member 72dj, who you normally place in the subsection when it comes to state property, you say, or you prescribe godly or famous conditions, strict conditions under which a citizen, who is a resident of an EU Member State, can buy a private country owned by him. You're saying that this citizen should be 10 years old in Serbia, living in Serbia, should have, that is, been working on that agricultural land for three years, should have registered agricultural land, should have all the machinery and could buy two hectares of land, the most. I ask you - do you think it will rush some natural persons from Western European countries to come here? You, for God's sake, are actually moving and moving the focus that this law needs to deal with, moving the focus of how the country is privatized when it comes to legal persons. This is the problem, once again I draw your attention, it should be the subject of amending and supplementing the law, the transport of agricultural land when it comes to legal persons and domestic and foreign legal persons. You know that we only have agricultural land that is our natural resource and that we can go, after all, to the EU, in which we will probably never arrive as far as we from the DSS are concerned, we do not have to get to the EU. Mr. Minister, let's open this law, essentially change it, let's see what's going on with the cooperative land, what about the agricultural land that owns the combinations and that's the subject of tycoon trade.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19476	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19477	This is indeed a key member that you are introducing by this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, and right now our entire debate today shows that this is one cosmetic. You are texting this article to bring it into line under the obligations imposed by the SAA, all day long saying that this SAA is bad, poorly negotiated and that you have a problem with them, but I would remind you that in 2008, your founder Tomislav Nikolic, voted in favour of the same SAA, and that you are implementing the entire EU accession programme, which you so boast. You see, we have criticised here today, MPs of the opposition, all of your legislative proposals are just trying to show you that this is one deception, the deception of Serbian citizens, and that you're just bringing this in to satisfy one legal form, primarily because of the EU and the SAA, but we have touched today, and I think it's a good basis for a serious dialogue, one key problem that we have with agricultural land, which is a national vital resource, non-renewable resource. I would also like to commend what we could read in "Politica" yesterday, the Minister of Ecology who pointed to the problem of drinking water sources, and when we add up water sources and when we add up agricultural land, we need to see what we do with one problem, that we already have a situation that thousands of hectares have ended up in the hands of foreigners. We have a situation that you intend to keep thousands of acres to hand over to strangers. Today, we mentioned the company "Tenis" and, behold, if I can agree with my colleague Rističević and with my colleague Djukanovic and with my colleague Gojkovic, they have indicated that it is problematic that the tycoons are also waved across foreign offshore companies registered in Cyprus or in other offshore areas, they have come into possession of huge Serb oracles. They are also gravediers of Serbian agriculture and "Delta agrar" and MK Komerc and "Vitoria group" and "Matijević". They are very responsible for the disastrous situation in Serbian agriculture, besides politicians. At the same time, foreigners, such as Croatia's Agrokora, acquired the land. Let's see what we need to do to undo it, to get back to the state it's supposed to be in. You didn't propose any changes that touched the real problem, and that's the whole point of our today's dispute. There's no need to argue, no need to be angry, but we want to show you that or you're not aware of the problem, because you don't know and you're unprofessional, or you're accomplices. You're complicit in ruining this country that's been going on for 17 years. Unfortunately, I think that's different. If this were the first one, we might be able to come up with some common ground by talking, but the problem is that you're just constantly continuing a policy that's been ruining us for 17 years. Now one Tenis, who is working with the MK group and who will have business ventures here together, will perhaps put the last nail in the case of Serb agriculture, and this is the key problem of your overall policy towards agriculture and half-dominated relations towards the EU, where you do not have an interest in Serbian citizens and the Serbian national economy, already take care of the interests of foreigners.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19478	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19479	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, the public is working so that there is no confusion, any provision that we would adopt, and which would retroactively have a fact, even on these tycoons, which I would like, would be counter-constitutional. So, they'd paint for free. This law would be declared unconstitutional. In order to protect future land from falling into the hands of legal persons, some other tycoons and not sell it, and to remind them that Agrokor has become the owner of the agricultural land by buying the Diamond. So, since Diamond had a certain amount, the area of agricultural land, by buying the Diamond, in the privatisation of Agrokor remained the owner of the agricultural land, and I think it was sold by Matijević. In the future, if the state feels that it is dangerous, it can re-introduce the right to prevent purchases. Under this law, all land offered after ten years to natural persons, foreigners, the first state has the right to prevent purchases, and then the neighbour has the right to prevent purchases, and only after those two shopping championships, only then a foreign citizen, a natural person who has a place of residence on the territory and local self-government, who has ten years of agricultural land can buy up to two hectares, provided he has a mechanization and has been engaged in agriculture for three years. So only after these two rights, such a same right, if the state considers it to be useful, can it introduce legal persons or stimulate the neighbor or our domestic natural person to give him a favourable credit that he has the right to the championship, since he has it, to buy that agricultural land. The truth is, there is no institute to protect this land from foreigners, from foreign legal entities. So, if we want, we can lend a domestic natural person that has the right to buy the championship from MK Komerac, from Delta, Agrokora and other tycoon agricultural land. If that's what the state wants, if this government stays, I think that's what's gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19480	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19481	This whole article needs to be deleted. Unfortunately, we don't have enough time to explain every attitude, but these conditions you've predicted are interesting so that foreigners can buy land. Among other things, you say that for at least ten years, a person has been permanently inhabited in the local self-government unit in which agricultural land is being trafficked. The fear that arises when this provision comes to light reminds me of a time about a year ago, when your government had the idea that migrants who came to Serbia were displaced by abandoned households in Serbia, so that something seemed to me that this might mean something. It's been a while. It's also been ten years, and maybe that way you'll be selling land, like, I repeat, agricultural land before you. There is no difference between Todorovic and your "Al Rafaveda". So in the same way, you are irresponsible to agricultural land, to Serbian peasants. This is where you're talking about the right obstacle to buy and I'm asking you what the country's doing? It takes the right to prevent purchases from being bought by farmers, peasants, not by the state. The country only needs to manipulate itself, to abuse itself. The state deals with state affairs, the state administration, not agriculture. Agriculture is done by peasants, it's done by agricultural combinations, Mr. Minister, and in that sense, when you were already bringing in, you should have done this. Of course, you didn't think that way as you predicted that you as a minister, along with a colleague of the other minister, would determine the right to an obstacle to purchases, deadlines, terms and method of procedure. If you have this in law, then you don't need it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19482	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19483	The point of this amendment is that the conditions under which EU citizens can acquire the right to buy two hectares of the country are precisely to prevent discrimination between citizens who are interested in potentially increasing their property by buying two hectares of countries in Serbia. It's not a lot of humor to get into this. It does not threaten Serbia, when it comes to agricultural land, from those that will buy two hectares. We have to think about how to prevent those who, for example, tried on Zlatibor to turn the agricultural land, the cooperatives on Zlatibor into building land, and even the members of the government were involved. It was a big public affair. Zorana Mihajlovic was ahead of it and she came into conflict with local self-government by simply coming up with the idea that agricultural land that mainly pastures turn into building land. What do you think the PKK is attractive about? It's mostly on the territory of the city of Belgrade, so you see how useful it is if it turns into building land? Minister, I appreciate what you are denying, but, you know, there is one true anecdote, when McNamara came to visit the then Yugoslavia, he asked then the president of the federal government, Branko Mikulic – who guarantees that any loans that the World Bank will give back? Branko Mikulić said – me, myself and my government. So it looks to me like this head-lifting thing of yours, you're changing, there's going to be a new set, so it's going to come to me, it's not really this precise. And what happens if someone from the EU Committee tells you this is discrimination? Are we going to sit back and put this out of our hands?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19484	Thank you. Just to inform the Serbian Radical Party's MP group is out of time, except for representatives and by amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19485	All the countries for the past 20 years that have entered into this plant called the European Union have had an obligation to status-equal with regard to the acquisition of property rights on the property of EU citizens with their domestic citizens. All of them have had to carry out this obligation during a period of time since the country became a member of the European Union. We're not here for anything specific, and that specificity can't even exist. And we do not need to create a period of time before joining the EU, because we will never be members of the EU. It's one thing that's very important. The second thing, this member of yours is completely wrong, because he's really getting into something about discrimination. You are bringing into an unfavourable position and a different position of a private person, the owner of a private-owned agricultural land, when it sells, allegedly, to a foreigner and when it sells to our citizen. Because, however, the constitutional provision says that the transport of this land is free, and restrictions and special conditions must act in general. You're doing a kind of replacement for thesis here. And that, in my opinion, is wrong. I have not yet heard that the Ministry of Agriculture has used its legal authority under Article 59(2). The agricultural land law. You know, if you don't use it for a year... You're applying that? Oh, you don't. Well, you probably don't have the capacity to apply it and find a similar person who would enter a lease in the next three years and process a land that hasn't been processed in years. You know, I think that's where the big resources for Serbian agriculture are. Since this is practically the end of the debate, this law is bad. It's not good to play with this strategic value in this way, and it's still agricultural land. Small countries, small nations, protect what they have. Don't compare yourself to the big states. Just remember one more very important thing. Once upon a time, 150 years ago, a doctrine was developed that says — Siberia is not the property of Russia, it is the world's wealth, it belongs to everyone. Who can use it? It can be used by a private owner. What the EU is doing is a modified variant. Where the German owns it, it's German, and where it's German, it has the legitimate right to come and the German army. Remember, they didn't give it up. Let's not give up what's ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19486	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19487	Thank you. I will take the opportunity to say one more thing about the controversial constitutional basis of these new solutions and what colleagues have already said several times today. I fully agree, and I have pointed out this myself, that more has been kept in mind when writing these solutions on the SAA than on the Constitution of Serbia, because how else can we interpret that as the constitutional basis of these solutions, Article 97 is cited. The Constitution, point 9) and point 12, where agricultural land is not actually mentioned and that does not really provide any basis for these solutions. I'd really like someone to explain to me how the basis here was found for such solutions to be written. I would much prefer that the motionor dealt with some other members of the Constitution. I, as someone who isn't a lawyer, may not have to talk about it, should have said that the proposer did, but it might have been better if some other members of the Constitution had looked at themselves, such as Article 58, which guarantees the peaceful enjoyment of property rights and other property rights, but it doesn't have to be property, it can be the right to use, so then enjoying, the right to rent, etc. These rights, which normally belong to Serbian citizens, can be, are also some of the rights that may be threatened by this law and these additional solutions, which means that these, I repeat, new solutions are being re-emerged and worsened by the position and rights of Serbian citizens. Also, Article 17. The constitution says foreigners enjoy the rights guaranteed by law, except for those that belong only to citizens, citizens of Serbia. Well, it doesn't make sense that some rights only have citizens of the Republic of Serbia and not foreigners? I could name a few more members of the Constitution, but I don't have any more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19488	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19489	Respected Serbian citizens, only the SNS authority agrees to sell agricultural land to foreigners, not only have we not entered the EU, but we will never enter the EU, even for the 10 years for which you are trying to limit the partial sale of agricultural land to foreigners. All other, I would say, the more serious governments in the EU, of course, have limited that possibility and 11 years after joining the EU, and we, behold, 11 years before we join the EU, offer to sell agricultural land to foreigners. Of course, the citizens of Serbia did not ask about it at the referendum, you did not even have a public debate. You, Mr. Minister, cannot list one association of farmers who support you in selling agricultural land to foreigners. There's no association like that. No Serbian farmer, normally, would say and add, will ever support the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. You, of course, did not have the courage to ask the citizens of Serbia in a referendum on how they feel about this idea of yours. Of course you are equating EU citizens with citizens of Serbia here. It is important for you to protect the rights of citizens of other countries, and you have forgotten the rights of your own citizens. I have not noticed that you mention in this proposal amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land, for example, that citizens of the Russian Federation can buy agricultural land in Serbia, as only EU members are a priority for you. That's what you listen to, what you have to fulfill, in which you are identical to the policy of the former regime. We've heard some really interesting complainers here how wrong this SAA is, but here you are, applying it, how someone badly negotiated it, but, well, you're going that wrong way and you're going the wrong way. Well, where are those brave advances, those great protectors of Serbia, those great patriots? Where is this greatest of all the sons of our peoples and peoples, Aleksandar Vukic, to slap his hand on what and to say – we will no longer do so in a devastating way through Serbia to the EU at any cost?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19490	I'm asking you to start talking about the amendment at last. Here, for two minutes I let you say whatever you want, whatever comes to mind, though it's hard.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19491	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, for your suggestion. I just wanted to say that you're actually hiding the essence of this law and that we're trying to get our amendments back on track, and the only right way is to ban the sale of agricultural land to foreigners, which will also be legally and constitutionally guaranteed for all time. It's Dwri's policy. I haven't met, believe me, these days not one member of the SNS or the SPS voter who is for the sale of agricultural land to foreigners, who would support this if you put this on a referendum. You must not put this in front of your own members, because they would support what I am saying today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. And they're against selling agricultural land to foreigners. You're also lying to your own members about what you're doing today and what kind of law you want to pass, because you're listening to the Brussels Central Committee because you owe something to the Brussels commissioners because you don't have your own opinion and your own attitude, because you're actually working all the time for the interests of the IMF, the World Bank, Brussels, Washington, NATO Pact and those who have been in command here for years back. That's the essence of the story. You are the same as the former regime, there is no difference between the former and the current regime compared to the EU. With this law you best prove it, because you say – we must, be careful, we must fulfill what someone has signed before us. What do you have to do? Where does that say you have to? Why don't we challenge the SAA? Why don't we suspend him? Why don't we stop it when it doesn't fit? The professor in your ranks has said nicely that he is against the EU, only he cannot explain why he then votes for the laws in favour of the EU. It's from your ranks...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19492	I'm asking you to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19493	... With this nacho law. So it is very clear that Serbia's Dvora Movement has absolute support for Serbian citizens today. All Serbian citizens are against selling land to foreigners, if someone would even give them a chance to plead in a referendum. That's why you forbid a referendum, because you know you'd lose in that referendum. If you asked about Serbia's entry into the EU, and you asked about the Brussels agreements, and you asked about gay parades, and you asked about selling agricultural land to foreigners, at each of these referendums, you would lose, and therefore you should not go to a referendum, but this is how you distract the public, as you protect something, and in fact you are the most common servants of Brussels and the EU. That's why you're the same with DS policy. You can't get off that path. As once said not to turn away from Joseph Broz Tito's path, so you must not stray from Serbia's devastating path to the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19494	Mr. Obradic, I let you go so you wouldn't be a victim of the ruling regime. (Bosko Obradovic: You are the heart. The fact that you're throwing me that my heart is just saying that you may have other European values, but I'm drawing attention to you that if you call someone else a liar again, you'll get a warning. You have the right to use synonyms, etc., but you have no right to insult MPs and ministers. You said someone here was lying. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica. (Maya Gojkovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19495	I thank Ambassador Orlic for the correct interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, that he who says - the violation of the Rules of Procedure - gets the first word. So, I'm calling for a violation of Members 106 and Articles 108. The previous speaker did not say anything about the agenda point, or this time about the amendment. We heard some tract about the behavior and politics of Joseph Broz Tito, we heard about DS, we heard about what the Dveri MP group would like to achieve, which is that they have absolute support in their policy, but we haven't heard anything about the amendment. President, you have violated article 108 because you are discussing with the MPs and you are warning them something and asking them to break or not to violate the Rules of Procedure, to insult someone, well, the next time if they do not insult them then, or if you insult them again, you will punish them. You can only apply Article 108(1) to take care of the order at the session, use or do not use attitude 2 to punish someone, and these pedagogical measures do not exist under the Rules of Procedure and in some cases do not produce any results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19496	Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19497	Here, not for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19498	The word has been made by the MP Srdjan Nogo, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19499	Article 27, which stipulates that only the president of the National Assembly, in this case you, as vice president of the chair, care for order at the session. Mrs. Gojkovic came forward as our colleague, as a National MP, pointing out that the Rules of Procedure have been injured, and I would just like to say that you are the ones who evaluate, interpret the infringements of the Rules of Procedure, which is referred to by this Article 27. You're merodative. It doesn't make sense that the MP usually subscribes whether someone needs to be punished or not, since you've been conducting the dialogue. I think the chairman is tasked with conducting a dialogue with the MPs, and that's one normal thing. I don't think we should be someone who can't talk to each other. Mr. Arsic, you did the right thing. I'm not pointing to Mrs. Gojkovic, and I'm just pointing out that dialogue is something to force in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19500	My colleague Nogo, the chairman is not in charge of dialogue, but is in charge of a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. A colleague, Maja Gojkovic, has every right to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, as well as any other MP, by having the chairman responsible for the application of the Rules of Procedure, and one of the MPs, if he considers the chairman not to do his job well, has the right to point to an injury. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? (No) The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19501	It is a member of 103, which says that each MP has the right to orally point to an infringement in the conduct of the President, that is, this time the chairman of the National Assembly, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure done at the session of the National Assembly that is under way, and that is immediately after the injury has been done. I fully understand the MPs that it's only been a year in this assembly, as far as we're concerned, and that they're new MPs, but I think for every MP who's ever wanted to read the Rules of Procedure, there's been enough time to get to know this provision of Article 103(1). - every messenger has the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and it is up to you to give an interpretation and to decide whether or not he is injured by a vote. It doesn't matter that I'm the president of the National Assembly. Every MP, president, is a prerequisite for being also an MP, comes down to the bench and discusses and has the right to use business provisions, including a violation of the Rules of Procedure. So much for me, a free advice from a colleague who's only been an MP for a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19502	Thank you. Do you want the Parliament to make statements on your injury to the Rules of Procedure in the voting day?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19503	You didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, but the possibility that MPs injure the Rules of Procedure doesn't exist with us, so no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19504	Thank you. Comrade Eagle, have you given up on the replica? The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19505	Thank you, Chairman. For the sake of the public, when we talk about this amendment, I have to point out something that we are obliged to say, which is that we have one terrible public delusion -- nobody sells land to foreigners, nor is it possible and this law prevents it. The point here is that someone has learned phrases and spins those same phrases in five sentences, I guess on the advice of what he has criticised, the EU, NATO Pact. On their advice, he was sent by such a vice president to the party and here deceives the public in this way. Some of them are here. I really ask those who criticise this law to say what the alternative is. Are we going to destroy the competition? Do we want to destroy the farm all the way? We want to end up with an incorrect thesis here, he says – why only towards EU citizens, and with them is the agreement signed. Why do you have to bring this? So you don't go bankrupt, somebody's gonna sue you. Unfortunately, in 2008, someone unilaterally committed to applying the SAA. That's the point. We made a unilateral commitment to apply something. If we stopped doing this, someone would sue us, before any arbitration, we'd lose every dispute. Why don't you tell the citizens that if you did it to bankrupt this country. You want to bring the country to bankruptcy? Is that your policy? Yeah, we're making the law, we're correcting a mistake, not a mistake, but we're correcting a disaster that someone did in 2008 and we're trying to protect agricultural land, and those who express such flosscules, and the more demagogues they approach this subject, the more they would lead this country to total bankruptcy. Minister, I think you have a duty to report and tell us what this is all about. I claim that these people are afraid of any competition, because they've never learned to do business, or work in anything where there's a market, but they just want to protect the interests of certain domestic tycoons here, and that's the biggest problem. Thank you. The second position of the same member – a citizen of the EU Member State, which is also citizens of the Republic of Serbia, can be acquired under the same conditions as other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This respects the obligations we have under the agreement. This respects the obligation to open up and this speaks of reality. What's reality? When the provisions submitted by the proposal are translated as a basic proposal, it comes down to the fact that it can't be anyone who doesn't have Serbian citizenship. Since there are enough citizens who have dual citizenship in Serbia, except for citizens of countries such as Montenegro, who ban dual citizenship, then it is time to recognise that this is intended for them, as in any free will in EU countries, whether there are citizens of Serbia who are citizens and other EU members in the form of temporary or more permanent gastro-bytery. You've assigned this member to them, but you don't want to know. You will not know that Serbia will sell agricultural land in private property. It can't be known and it's bad. The campaign that we are trying to survive in this Assembly, otherwise in public, that the SAA is badly negotiated, so this is the starting point, I said in the debate in principle, it will not do anyone any good, absolutely no one. We should grow up. We need to know how to... Yes, ladies and gentlemen, let's grow up, let's not talk here about how the SAA is negotiated and be proud we don't have a clue, grow up. (Vladimir Djukanovic: How did you negotiate? ) You can ask me, I listen very carefully and patiently, from the beginning of this debate I have listened to learned sentences that are called message boxing in this trade, to reduce the damage that we are going to agree on our voters, and yet we are going to sell the country on private property, which is legal, is not legitimate. But I hear inadmissible ignorance about how the process of European integration is going, including the process of negotiating on the SAA. You also have an amendment that proves it, complete ignorance. I'll talk about that amendment when it's on the agenda. You accepted that amendment. You have no idea what you have accepted. The government offered it. Anyone who utters a sentence will not grow up unnecessarily, but they will play in the sand of the periphery. My offer... National MP Marijan Risticevic throws it away. People's MP, if you have anything to tell me, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19506	People's MP, don't throw it away. There you go, Gordan.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19507	If you're nervous that I'm telling the truth, please refrain. If you can't help yourself, then I'm asking the President of the National Assembly to help each other keep the dialogue here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19508	I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19509	I heard. Thank you. So these two attitudes are saying what you're essentially suggesting, except for the folklore debate that was happening in this room and that was happening on committees. They repeat here for the end, in an attempt to suggest you accept this amendment, and this amendment, like any other, is voted grouply at committee meetings, that there is no understanding of what it means or what we care about, we are the majority, we can as we wish speak equally of the ruling majority, as well as the opposition. It's our misunderstanding, banal, but deep down, you can't vote on amendments grouply. He can't piss us off that he's got 42 amendments. You cannot raise your hands to declare that the Rules of Procedure do not apply to committee meetings and that there is a group vote against the amendments. He can't. In the same way that we observe what an institution is, what committees are, like, from the same shoes here, we hear the ignorance of negotiating during the achievement of the SAA. I think more rather than later, we together will testify to the fact that our DS amendment is essentially a fair and applicable version of your basic proposal. No lies, no fraud. If you have dual citizenship, here's two acres. Two by two, two by two, twenty times two, either way, but that's what's essentially going to happen with the blockades relative to the conditions. You don't want to talk here about the alienation of private property, and it says in some laws of other countries that also signed the SAA, but you're talking about the alienation of agricultural land in state property. Either it's the same terms and the same conditions, and this condition and this alienation and that alienation, or we want to do it in a pretty amateur way, and we're sloppyly trying to hide what we can't hide. Private agricultural land will be sold. The only question is, Whom? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19510	Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19511	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, we are talking today about this law on amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land and it offers some extorted solutions that are limited by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I think there are some good solutions that I talked about in the principle debate, but I want to put out first of all the personal and position of PUPS on agricultural land. Our attitude is well known – not even the country's pedal to strangers. As responsible people, however, we must respect international agreements signed on our behalf or on behalf of the state, or on behalf of the people. That's why I'm saying that these are some kind of extortion solutions and what they are, that's what they are. They must be better than provided for in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. That is why I wanted this law to be corrected in some way and to amend the amendment to Article 3 in the new Article 72.ð. in the first position, after words - EU citizens add text – as well as a domestic legal person whose owners or co-owners are citizens of an EU Member State. This member should read as a whole – citizens of an EU Member State, as well as domestic legal persons who are founders and members of EU Member States, a private-owned agricultural land, starting from an agreement can obtain legal work, with or without compensation, under the conditions laid down by this law. Which means that we are putting into the same plane the owners of some legal entities as we have citizens of the EU Member State. I gave a logical explanation. I believe that the intended member must be complemented by a provision that would extend the fact of the changes and additions provided and to domestic legal persons whose owners or co-owners are EU citizens, so that, through indirect means, the establishment or registration of fictitious companies or associations, no possibility of misuse of these legal solutions or indirect acquisition of property over the land beyond the conditions of the proposed member. I also suggested in this article a change in attitude 7 that the Republic of Serbia, adding domestic and legal, should have the right to an obstacle to purchase, such as the state of the Republic of Serbia. This attitude would look like this – the Republic of Serbia, domestic, legal and natural persons have the right to prevent the purchase of agricultural land in private property which is the subject of legal work under the position of the 1st member. This when I suggested I run myself to make it possible, so our domestic legal individuals to have those 2 ha if they're bordering their plot to have the right to intercept the purchase. I understand this is Mr. Secretary's explanation. It is somewhat acceptable, however, now that we cannot say whether I am right to propose this amendment, or whether it is a right minister who has rejected my amendment, but certainly time will show who was right and whether we have contributed or have not contributed to the adoption or not by adopting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19512	National MP Dijana Vukomanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19513	Thank you. So, in this first amendment, I went, to say radically, integrally, a system solution which is obviously too harsh or unacceptable for the ruling majority, to solve this problem by simply putting out of force this law, i.e. these changes and staying on the formulation that it was, and that is a valid formulation, that is a ban on transport, that is to say, selling private land. This is one technical amendment but which says – if you don't want to do it already, if you want to at least formally enable or allow foreigners to buy agricultural land, then let's let that intensity that's about obvious and no one here has challenged it, and some of the colleagues in the ruling majority have said it directly, that we are actually making it possible, and we are actually making it impossible for them and we are preventing them. In that sense, I would say that my colleagues, some of the Dvora were too strict when they said this would now make it possible to sell agricultural land. No, that 2 ha, by 2 ha, I say, those who are interested in all these blockades and conditions that are set really won't be too motivated to rush and buy. Those who buy, especially those speculative, international capital, will go to the opening of companies, joint firms and thus alienate, or take over land as it has done so far in Serbia. My appeal to the Minister is also to the Government, to any government, present and future, I hope that he takes action as soon as possible. It's not easy, but to prevent it. As far as the SAA is concerned, yes, unlike my colleague, Komic, I really think that he is badly negotiated, especially in some respects, it is not at all controversial and that he should have intervened there. But when we look at the poorly negotiated and the Brussels Agreement, by the way, be it said, so that we have no right to complain, or the ruling majority to complain only about the Brussels Agreement and the previous government because it has also negotiated worse and more disastrously, the current government of the Brussels Agreement on Kosovo. However, that is why, and I did not accidentally mention the Brussels Agreement, it is because of this Brussels Agreement that it may be possible that the EU will not react critically to such changes even though they are not blind and it is clear to them that in this way it is essentially preventing or enabling the transport of agricultural land at the same time. To me it's a little naive, a little bit transparent, I'd say a little unserious, and then I wanted to do a little bit of this amendment by erasing this point 4 in this article 72dj where it's being sought out besides all those 10 years, besides everything else that they need to have a registered household, as long as they need to be inhabited, permanently settled in a local self-government unit. Well, how many of these Hans and Pierres have been inhabited for 10 years in the local self-government unit, so they are still asked to own machinery and equipment for carrying out agricultural production. This does not specify what this equipment and machinery means. It can mean complete machinery, and it can mean tractor, and it can mean fruit sprinkler, it can mean lawn mower, it can mean weed trimming. Simply, we seem a little unserious in addition to these serious items, the conditions that are put there, strict, sometimes even too strict, but reasonably strict, so introduce a non-serious criterion such as mechanization and without the specifications of what means machinery and equipment to perform production. So they could be ordinary rakes, so it could be a condition or not be a condition. Simply, it could be thrown out, it wouldn't hurt, and it would either seem a little bit more serious, this bill that you're going with, which I repeat and I'm ending up with, will not be the subject of criticism from Brussels just because they're satisfied with some other things that the government does first in Kosovo and some other fields. When they're unhappy, then they'll start this issue and make you change this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19514	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19515	I'm calling for her not to be accepted. By introducing protective measures, we explained today, and if someone didn't get to wash it all out today, we did it on Friday, if he was busy then, we did it on Thursday. Yes, I think there's a full sense in the existence of these measures. Besides, once again, we didn't invent these things on Thursday, so these things already exist, they apply. Whether or not it has anything to do with Brussels, let anyone who looks at this session, I mean, at the Brussels Agreement. I understand that someone doesn't have anything else to say, but if they're going to be disgusted and embarassed over the Brussels Agreement or as he said in his own amendment to Article 1 above any theoretical possibility that a foreign citizen might become a owner and even up to two hours under all these conditions and only a private property plot, please, let him explain to the fans why I suggest that it be easier for him. By proposing such an amendment, we reduce the conditions and facilitate the story. All of faith. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19516	The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19517	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just one brief correction. Maybe someone who took money from Luttria Serbia can call it a mechanization. The rake is a agricultural tool and is not a mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19518	Please, you have 14 seconds. The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19519	There's no need for me to spend those 14 seconds, just to tell you, this is what I suggested to make your inconclusiveness of this proposal less, and it's clearly my political position and it's not at all controversial. So he's against it, but if you want to be more serious, then at least drop this.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19520	Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nedjo Jovanovic and Vladan Zagradjan. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find that this amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19521	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I share this amendment with the SPS parliamentary group because the amendments were almost identical. So both solutions are such that we try to keep the sovereignty of this country maximum. We do not belong to that group, especially the former regime party, which lightly gave Josipovic parts of the territory. We and how we take care of the borders of the Republic of Serbia, especially our neighbours. Someone here said they didn't expect a European, a European farmer to come to Serbia, and that's the same as if someone from Hollywood came to Kaludierica. Someone gets it from Hollywood, it's no wonder he comes to Kaludierica, and it's a miracle when someone with 800 euros' salary buys an apartment in Vienna. It is a bit of a bigger miracle and that the parliamentary group is thanks to these lightly given gifts of some property across the EU, accounts on various Virgin Islands. We, unlike them, preserve the sovereignty of the country and this territory in which it is not allowed to transport agricultural land under any conditions to foreigners, is a territory of 10 km. Of course, we want to cultivate friendly relations, but we cannot forget the history that the European farmers include Croatian paraori, Hungarian paraori, Bulgarian paraori, Romanian paori. Therefore, I think that this 10km-long provision along the border of the Republic of Serbia is necessary, as is the one concerning the land's security zone where it is also 10km. This amendment has therefore been extended and I am also grateful to the SPS parliamentary group which has proposed the same amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19522	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19523	Thank you. Crown proof of sloppyness and ignorance. Minister, where is the border between Croatia and Serbia? Where is the border between BiH and Serbia? Is there a Minister's border? This amendment is due to the catastrophic change and addition of the 2015 Agricultural Land Act, with a very similar provision. How will anyone who comes to you measure 10km from the border with Croatia and Bosnia who have not been established? You understand the situation - I have no idea, but it sounds good. It's this amendment. That's rather important what we need to talk about in this society. The borders of Croatia and Serbia have not been established as well as the borders of Bosnia. If the answer will be determined once, then I ask so that you do not put the administrative limit here under a binding legal act signed by Belgrade and Pristina, and that will be adopted once, but is not now adopted. It's not adopted now, it's not in force now. And moreover, we learned nothing from the mistakes made by Croatia as it joined, and Slovenia was already a member of the EU. Very much like the pride of ignorance. Croatia ignored, then Slovenia for drawing the border on the seabed in the Piran Bay, and there was no border, and neither was Badinter. I also prayed in 2015 in December when this terrible law was passed which is now in force and now six months later I listen – we keep our borders, from the MPs who do not know that we have not established our borders. We didn't ratify, we didn't sign the agreement. Why did I tell you that it's much better when I, say, criticize you than when you listen to learned praise lines, because you're going to have a problem, because someone's going to come and look for a forest, a plot, everyone here knows how beautiful the top Danube, ten kilometers from there, how good the Back Land is, you'll have it in Srem. How will you refuse to give consent to sell private plots of two hectares? It's also small plots tomorrow, mostly orchards and stuff. How are you gonna tell him, what are you gonna tell him? Sorry, we don't know, we haven't established a border between Serbia and Croatia. The ease in which such things are spoken in this way speaks of all of us. It is neither half evil to the ruling majority nor to the benefit of any opposition, nor to the harm of these or those. It's unserious and embarrassing, and you just think it's useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19524	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19525	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I would first of all like to say a few things about this amendment to the law on agricultural land for days of discussion. This amendment is due to the desire to set the rules of the game in the same way as the word in previous amendments to the law. When you ask me what you're gonna do? As a state, we have a clear view that we must also protect Serbia's security interests, and on the other hand, I think you've ignored one thing. The deadlines begin to run from the day of entry into force of this law, we have ten and more years of application, I apologize, I did not express myself well, and last time you told me – if you notice that you have made a mistake, you are correct, and here is the obvious fact that I have learned something through this debate and it is normal. Only people who don't want to change have no right to move forward. There's one thing I want to tell you, this in ten and over years, thank you for thinking that I'm going to be there in the same position, and I'm making the same decision, but I hope that by then we'll all figure out our journey as we're going right now, and that's the way of European integration. It is precisely, in order not to prevent this path of European integration, to have negative consequences, to point out once again, by not passing these amendments and by supplementing the law, that a question on our path would certainly be put in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19526	The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19527	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that members of the former regime have admitted that they have left us completely ruined, even a territorial broken state. I give them credit for that confession, but if they think the border will be where Tadic has agreed with Josipovic, they are wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19528	The People's MP Slavisa Ristic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does he want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 3 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure submitted by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. At its meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Affairs, the proposal representative accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Stefana Miladanovic and Snezana Paunovic. The National MPs Milan Lapčević, together Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović, Milorad Mirčić, Miljan Damjanović, Sreto Perić, Natasa Jovanovic, Bozidar Delić, Zoran Krasić and LJiljana Mihajlović, together Boško Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić, together Zoran Zivković, Marinika Tepić, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandra Čabraj and together Sasa Radulović and Nenad Bož. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19529	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, the amendment is simple and it reads - it is deleted. So, I'm really disappointed that you did this at the ministry where you're the minister. The session began on 24th and said the law should be passed on the eighth day. Didn't you know that they were going to be amendments, didn't you know that this session couldn't last one day and didn't you know that you'd be out of deadline? And then in order to correct this devastating thing called, what you have several times underlined the way to the EU and the alignment of the SAA with the transitional time until 1 September, one of the colleagues submits an amendment which, of course, is adopted to be from the day of adoption after the accelerated procedure. So it's not an emergency, it's the next day. I'm really surprised how arbitrary there is in passing such a serious law. The fact that I disagree with the law, the amendments to the law, that I do not agree, that he is executed by the Republic of Serbia and that the SAA is executed by the Republic of Serbia, is my right and my political commitment, but you yourself have said that the SAA is harmful and you yourself have said something that is not true, that we cannot break him up. The SAA is anti-constitutional and it does not treat the constituent part of the Republic of Serbia as part of the Republic, because Kosovo too has a signed SAA with the EU and should say so. This law is best withdrawn and completely annulled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19530	The word has Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19531	Dear Chairman, I would like to say something, as the debate is nearing its end, as regards this Article 4, which refers to the time when it is moving, when the entry and application of the law is. I just want to say one thing for the public, of course we're responsible, and we didn't do this kind of thing like you tried to point it out. We adopted this law a month ago at the government, referred it to the government and referred it to the Assembly afterwards. The session of the Assembly is being held these days and at that point that we knew when the session would be due, surely to put that provision in line with what my colleague Rističevic suggested and I am grateful for that and it is only proof that by interactive discussion between all the participants in this business, we come to quality solutions and that we are not vain and that we are not running from any constructive debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19532	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19533	And we have submitted an amendment to this article that regulates the entry into force of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. For a final comment, I think it's precisely a time to say, if you think so much you have an obligation under the SAA, then you could have made a slightly different concept of the law, possibly prescribe some conditions, and then tell one member that this member and that law will apply within seven years, ever since Serbia becomes a full member of the EU. You didn't define yourself at that step. Some countries that have also been in the accession process have benefited, although they have used and declared land to be cultural goods, etc. etc. At the very end, let's go back practically to the beginning. Those who voted for the SAA have the obligation to vote for amendments to this law as well. Those who have not voted in favour of ratification or confirmation of the Agreement on 9 September 2008, should not vote today either. To remember who voted, the DS voted, the party Rasim Ljajic voted, the PUPS voted, the SPS probably also voted, the Liberal Democratic Party voted, the Liberal Union of Nenada Canka voted, and when you add it, it is not 126. So it's not 126, they had 140 and something at the time, they don't have 126 votes today, and this bill shouldn't be passed and these changes shouldn't be accepted. Those who changed their minds in the meantime, they probably now squeezed the DS and took responsibility and amnested the DS for everything that's wrong, as you say, negotiated. Excuse me for these 13 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19534	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19535	Thank you. In the case of this last member of the Law and the deadlines prescribed therein, it is seen how thoroughly our executive authority of the Ministry of Administration is engaged in the work that works and how the ruling majority are also implementing European integration. So, three days before the end of the deadline, we are discussing the adoption of a law proposing that it enter into force at the expiry of the deadline, and then the MP from the ruling majority proposes an amendment correcting that error in order to bring the law into force within the deadline. So this is all about how European integration is implemented. So that's where the transition problem in Serbia lies, and that's why it's going to last forever, and that's why some think that we'll never enter the EU, but not because of the EU, I'd say it for ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19536	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19537	Just a few more seconds and it doesn't need any more. I'm calling for her not to be accepted. Of course, whoever didn't hear it was only 10 or 15 seconds ago. Don't worry, dear people, it's all right, the question has been settled when it's going to take effect, because the amendment has been filed in good time and the deadline is regulated, and the one who seems to have forgotten that he's read here himself which dates the proposal arrived in the Assembly, let him rewind the video, find himself, believe that he'll be recognized, so he might be made more clear about what he said then, and what a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19538	Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th Amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19539	For the full truth, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment was submitted on 16 August. Watching the leaders of political parties naked in the white world's seas, I realized we shouldn't consider the law until they come together from these white world seas and come to this National Assembly. I asked the Ministry of Agriculture to consider it at the end of August, and with that in time, I submitted the amendment, giving these naked leaders a chance to participate in this debate, not to say that the law was passed without their presence. I must say, I'm surprised, given that all the opposition representatives are on vacation, and the minister is here, voting for this law in principle, and in particular they didn't have any major grudges, I can see that the debate was somewhat worse. There's one thing I need to say hello to. I welcome the main party of the former regime because she said no more lies, no more fraud, I realize they're giving up their program and statutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19540	National MP Milorad Stosic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19541	Exactly, she's the same intensity I've already said, and I hope no one will try to abuse it and misread it. We're principled against change, whatever. If it's already done as you wish, then we're making constructive suggestions, to see what can be more constructive in spite of some attempts to get us off that course of well-meaning and constructiveity. I hope Mr. Secretary understands that. Mr Krasic has now spontaneously suggested, in fact, something that stands in our amendment, although he did not know what was in that amendment. If you want to in some way disable, or make it most difficult to sell, and that is the essence of this, there is no doubt that you will allow it, but to make it difficult then to adopt, Mr Minister, and colleagues from the majority on our proposal for an amendment, which says – this law comes into force the next day since publication, and is applied at the end of 10 years from the date of obtaining full membership of the Republic of Serbia in the EU. So 10 years of full membership. You know, it seems far away from what you prescribe, but it was far away and when the SAA was adopted, it was far from September 1st 2017, but what comes very close, so this is how we've longed it not for 10 years as this Minister's proposal or the Government's proposal does, but we say 10 years since entering full membership. If that entry is made, then we will prolong, if it is not, as I believe, and most of you believe it will be nothing, then my God, I don't think it is oligant, it's politically correct, and at the same time it's all illigant very much in the spirit of what the governments of Hungary and Slovakia and Poland and other EU members who are inside are doing, and now they later extend those terms and are trying to postpone or avoid, or even avoid, selling agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19542	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19543	Thank you very much. Let's get this over with. I'm calling for her not to be accepted. I have to admit, I noticed one interesting thing, but there's one negative thing, and because of that other thing, I certainly can't accept this. It is interesting that this is how this is written, as far as I can see full confidence from the promoter, that the Republic of Serbia will become a member of the EU. He doesn't have any potential, he says when it happens. Now, if that means that certain political views have been corrected, it may even be commendable. They've become something more real than they are. Perhaps in that spirit they should interpret those other amendments they have proposed to facilitate the purchase of land owned by foreign citizens. Whether it is or not, I leave it to the public to judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19544	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19545	I'm not finished yet, I'm sorry. But what's not good is that we're talking about protective measures here. So these proposed measures should have their protective function. If the proposal is not to apply them immediately but only from today until the moment we become a member, then only in ten years, it means there is no protection in the entire meantime. You see, it's not good, and it's exactly one of the best effects of this law that would be completely unscathed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19546	Go back to the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19547	I'm talking about the amendment. So, an amendment that says - ten years after becoming a member, I say, it's not good because it doesn't cover the period from today to the moment when membership is achieved, and for the next ten years. At the very end, when we talk about good and professional proposals, I really repeat my confidence that every member of the proposed law, and this one is a good and professional solution. If we are looking for what is an example of the other, a good example can be found in the difference between Article 63, our agreement and, as they say, Article 60 of the agreement negotiated by Croatia. To one who has negotiated with that difference to our damage every honor of expertise and knowledge. It's over. Let's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-28-0.u19548	It's not over, except that the MPs who signed up have no more time. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. (Saša Radulovic: I have eight minutes left as president of the parliamentary group. ) Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality in the voting day. (Sasa Radulovic: I still have eight minutes. ) pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint 28 August 2017 starting at 17.15 p.m. as Voting Day on the agenda of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. (Sasa Radulovic: How do you do this? I'm gonna ask for an unfettered job experience after this call. I promise you that. (Saša Radulovic: I have eight minutes left. This has no price, what I do, because in such conditions I do, MP, that it is amazing. (Saša Radulovic: Look in the system, I answered the word. I'm the president of the parliamentary group. ) [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 135 MPs are present in the hall. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – 13, the abstentions – no, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were tabled by MPs Djordje Vukadinović, Dejan Šulkić, Milan Lapcevic, Gorica Gajic, the SRS parliamentary group, the Dveri parliamentary group, the Association of Independent MPs and together Sasa Radulovic and Nenad Bozic. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 140 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A member of the 1st amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members Dejan Sulkic, Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic, the SRS parliamentary group, the Dveri parliamentary group, the DS parliamentary group, the Parliament group of Independent MPs and together Sasa Radulovic and Nenad Bozic submitted an amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members Dejan Sulkic, Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic, the SRS parliamentary group, the Dveri parliamentary group, the Parliament group of Independent MPs and together Sasa Radulovic and Nenad Bozic submitted an amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying, "Yes -- no one." I find that the amendment has not been accepted. A member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Hadji Milorad Stosic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Dijana Vukomanovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying, "Yes -- no one." I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Nedjo Jovanovic and Vladan Zagradjan together submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The third amendment was submitted by Sanda Raskovic Ivić. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. An MP, Slavisa Ristic, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by Stefan Miladanovic and Snezana Paunovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th Amendment was submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, the SRS parliamentary group, the Dveri parliamentary group, the Parliament group of Independent MPs and together Sasa Radulovic and Nenad Bozic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Hadji Milorad Stosic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no seven abstentions for – 132, against – seven, seven MPs who are abstentions; seven MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, v – 13 abstentions – no, not one MP voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land. National MP Marija Janjusevic, at a session on 24 August 2017, at 12 hours and 19 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 24 August 2017, at 15 hours and two minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. No one's pleading. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 24 August 2017, at 15 hours and four minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. No one's pleading. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 24 August 2017, at 15 hours and 13 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 32. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. No one's pleading. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 24 August 2017, at 15 hours and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 107, 27 and 32. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. No one's pleading. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Tatjana Macura, at a session on 25 August 2017, at 16 hours and 30 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. No one's pleading. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Saša Radulovic, at a session on 28 August 2017, at 12 hours and 16 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. No one's pleading. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Branka Stamenković, at a session on 28 August 2017, at 12 hours and 42 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. No one's pleading. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 28 August 2017, at 15 hours and 14 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. No one's pleading. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Thank you. (Session closed at 1735)
