ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27362	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 106 MPs are present in the hall. I'd like to inform you that no one has reported him officially prevented today. We continue to work and move on to a search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by all members of the government, because everyone is authorized for the agenda points we have ahead of us. You have received amendments submitted by the MPs under the bill, you have received a report from the committees responsible. Since the National Assembly carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(4), Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Here you go. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27363	Thank you, President. I believe that the 157th position of the 4th is injured – especially from the position of the 3rd member, the review of the draft budget law, is carried out in such a way that, following the completion of the principled search, it immediately moves on the search in particular. You have now opened in detail the 1st item of the agenda and if we do the laws that are before the Budget Act for 2018 on the agenda, we will not discuss in particular the Budget Law. This point 4 refers to the fact that, when the principled review of the Budget Act is completed, whether the debate has been brought together with other points or not, it is moving on to the examination in particular, that is, to the debate on amendments, to the Budget Act. This, if you do not respect this Rules of Procedure in this way and we open the debate on the points that are before the Budget Act and we do not discuss amendments to the Budget Law, will be the first time in Parliament's history that amendments to the Budget Law will not be discussed, the most important law that the Assembly should adopt each year will not have the opportunity for MPs to give here the reasons why they have submitted their amendments, so let us hear from the Minister the reasons why these amendments are eventually not accepted, because, of course, the largest number is not accepted. Every time we think that there is no longer a way to further reduce parliament's work, the ruling majority surprises us and devises a new way to disenfranchise parliament's role, dissuade the work of MPs and the obligations that MPs have under the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27364	Thank you, MP. What you've said has, in part, to do with Article 157, that I have to tell you that you are wrong and that Rule 157 of Rule 4 has nothing to do with it. The second part is obviously a political part of your speech, which is not related to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you have to admit that voters, or Serbian citizens, are equally important, whether they vote for the DS or vote for the SNS or the JS, or the SPS or anyone else. Parliamentarians' rights and obligations are exactly the same, and they should not be insulted and demeaned by their discussion. And whether or not we're going to discuss amendments to certain points of the agenda again depends solely on the MPs, in which way they'll use the time they own under the Rules of Procedure, so I don't know why you think you won't have time in advance. It all depends on what you, personally, and your MP group discuss. I studied the Rules of Procedure very well, and it can be discussed if it is wanted and desired. Do you want to vote? Yeah. Thank you. Members of the SRS parliamentary group, joint MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic, joint MPs of the DS group and joint MPs of the Dveri group, submitted to the 1st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here you are, Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27365	We submitted the amendment and asked to delete that Article 1. The Law on Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017, and here are the reasons why we asked for it. First, the Law on the Budget System in Article 2 paragraph 1 of point 30 says the budget rebalance is a change of the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia during the financial year that is changing, or supplementing the budget. The supplement law is a law amending the relevant law, so the criterion implies that it is rebalancing. Furthermore, the Budgetary System Act implies that the Republic's budget contains a general and specific part, there is no third part of the budget implementation. It has become a practice for us to introduce 30, 40 provisions into the Budget Law - budget implementation, which translates into disabling everything about budget implementation attributed to the Budgetary System Act. It's a very important second prank. The third thing that is most important for this supplement is that the proposer of this law asks the National Assembly to empower the Government to determine by its decision who will and how much he will receive the prizes and bonuses. The National Assembly does not have that authority. Why doesn't he have that authority? First we need to find out where the money came from. If the money showed up because of a surplus, it means that income and income have increased. If revenue and income has increased, it must be expressed in Article 1. Budget law for 2017. If expenditure and expenditure have been reduced, then it must again be implemented through the general and specific part of the Budget Act for 2017 in all those positions within the beneficiaries of the budget, where there is an increase in funding for prizes and bonuses, as they have written here, changes must be made everywhere to the relevant economic classification. That's how it's always been done. It has resorted here to a ruse, it is not said that the funds are provided, it is not seen in which position these funds are secured, but is required before the New Year's Power to be Santa Claus. And, look at the wonders, right in that section of the Budget Law for 2017, where the restrictions on these payments will not be made in 2017. I'm just surprised that this could have passed our Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, that they didn't notice this much disagreement with the regulations, above all with the Budgetary System Act, with which the Budget Law must be in agreement. Of course, I don't want to talk about that part about individual users, possibly these funds, but I just want to point out that this has to be much clearer and it has to be based on the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27366	Thank you. The word has a national emissary Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27367	Thank you. Mr. Vujovicu, I really thought you were a serious man and a professional person. I really don't know where this law came from, this Article 1, which for me represents a gray zone of rewarding the undeserved or perhaps worthy, but we don't know who it is. So we've come to the point that there's a law that needs to be passed where we absolutely don't know what it's about. We absolutely find it inappropriate to even discuss something like this. If some space appears, as in this article, in the draft law on amending the budget system, or how we are experiencing it, on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017, or how we see it as a budget rebalancing, some space appears. I don't know what kind of space that is, and we think it's totally inappropriate that it's given for one-time help, rewards we don't know what the rewards are. So this should be very clear to us what it's all about, so we can even discuss this, because really this rebalancing that we expected last year, because new ministries have formed, because new agencies have formed and I can imagine that there were even needs for new employees. This is all delayed for 1 January 2018 and now we have a situation to reward? People who might have worked here and we don't know? Party personnel who are employed here or may be people who have really worked as needed. We don't know what this is about. I've never seen a gray member of a law before, and we absolutely think it should be erased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27368	It is the word of the People's Messenger, Marija Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27369	Thank you. So here it is clearly said in the law that what is signed by collective agreement is not respected, so there is no payment of Christmas, annual and other types of prizes and bonuses, provided for by special and individual collective agreements. An exception to the provisions contained in those articles is provided for, and without any visible and clear criteria, on the basis of which the Government will, under all discretionary right to pay someone extras and not to one. We can only assume on the basis of the regime's behaviour so far who will be rewarded and who will be denied the money that belongs to it. I think this is a continuation of a new tactics that has recently been called blurry. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27370	The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27371	Thank you. First, we propose to delete this member, because you have all payments defined by law. On the other hand, the government gets this huge discretionary right, and we know that the government is taking care of not all citizens of Serbia, but only party SNS listeners, and we have suggested that this member be deleted. On the basis of which the Government will determine who will receive the prizes, who will receive the bonuses, whether they will continue to share them in a similar and inappropriate way and I, Minister Vujovic, would not have a dilemma at all that you should determine it, I know that you would do it in a very correct way, but knowing that it will deal with, for example, Minister Vulin or Nebojsa Stefanovic, then we have really doubt, and therefore we have proposed to delete this member. Are you going to allocate money like you've done so far, why, just now, ten days before the elections, Negotin and Mijonica received funding from the budget? If those funds had gone to the citizens of Mijonica and Negotina, we would have welcomed it. Already 40 members of the SNS in Mijonica received social aid of 40,000 dinars, 1,600,000 dinars were put through state funds, a pair of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in an election campaign at the expense of the SNS. So, we have a long history, for six years, unfortunately, you boast the SNS authorities, we know that you do not spend money non-transparently, we know that you work only in the interest of the SNS, I'm once again building myself up, that minister, not personally on you, but on the SNS government.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27372	The word has a People's MP, George Komlenski, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27373	Who knows what time today we're listening to comments from the distinguished gentleman who showed, but absolutely, in what way no one should work with the budget and how no one should work when it comes to financial resources. The gentleman who spoke before me made phenomenal moves in his municipality that deserve long-term imprisonment, I will mention only one, and that is that the Smederjevska Palanka municipality bought the House of the Army for 40 million, destroyed, and then sold the same place "Delhaize" for 24 million. I wonder where that 16 million ended up and how someone who did that could even think about it and have the right to comment on someone who takes great care of every dinar in his ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27374	The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27375	Thanks for the line. First of all, someone who has ever done some serious business in his life, not someone who ran a local self-government or was president of any local self-government, should know that the sale of assets deals with the Property Directorate, not local self-government or anyone else. But well, ignorance is not a feature of the party from which the previous Vulin's pet comes. On the other hand, anyone who thinks about what citizens talk about in the election. Two years ago, with that kind of work, as you say, without showing up in your community, because I was a candidate for MP, I got 22% in my community, and they say you're the hardest to get through where people know you. I've got 70% of my friends, colleagues and acquaintances in my village, which has two and a half thousand voters, so that's what he's saying. Vulin's party cannot get 70 votes in all of Serbia, but on the back of another party crossing the censorship. As far as honesty is concerned, I think it's illusory that a member of Alexander Vulin's party, the man who bought an apartment of 250,000 euros, was given to him by his aunt in Canada, that he had gone for that money 25 times. I think we need to take the debate seriously and talk in a very serious way, because Serbian citizens have suffered the consequences of everything that Vulin and the company have done badly and harmfully for them for six years. But don't worry, and it will end in two years in parliamentary elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27376	The word is Gjorge Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27377	I thank the chairman. Although it is not the intention of this serious debate being conducted in this way, such insolence and inappropriate comments cannot really pass without reaction or response. If someone whose budget of the municipality he's in has been used to pay his own bills at the pubs, someone who's built football clubs, someone who's in charge of his municipality with four billion dinars, left without electricity, without water, he's really the last person who can comment on anything. After all, if he knew a little about what he was talking about, or trying to talk about, he would see that in next year's budget project, the Ministry of Defence only for a reduction in the cost of official travel predicted more than 400 million cuts in costs and, among other things, all these budget costs and budget expenditures were simply something that only served the gentleman to buy votes, but I believe that no one will vote for him or his party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27378	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27379	Article 107. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think you should have interrupted Vulin's MP for a very practical reason, because he didn't say a single word about the amendment, he was talking about my colleague, so, on that basis, he should have now, but you initially gave him your word. He didn't say a single word about the amendment. On that basis, you should have interrupted him. One more thing, President, all the security bars are in the hands of the government. Either he's not telling the truth or the security structure is incapable of solving this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27380	You've applied to article 107. Both times he's got a replica, this rest now you're trying to replicate something. Replic both times, you can check.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27381	But how did you give him the first one?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27382	Replica. Milojic was talking about the party president, Vulina.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27383	But he spoke very offensively... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27384	No buts. There's no buts now. Now you're giving yourself a new base. (Dejan Nikolic: Article 107) I believe so, but you said I gave him my word, and he had no right to speak, and he didn't talk about the amendment. He's replicated it. Let's not be too long, we've got a lot of work to do today. The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27385	Dear gentlemen, I suggest that this amendment be rejected because, remember when we adopted the budget that revenues were projected conservatively, as the finance minister said and I would say rationally and realistically. Because spending over the last nine months is multiplied by 4/3. So what's done in nine months is increased by 1/3. These were the minimum possible revenues, and when we projected expenditure, they were maximum. So, exactly when we adopted the budget, we really said then that there would be a surplus, as the surplus will appear at the end of 2018. Why? Because the budget projection principle has been repeated. Once again, income is minimal and expenditure is maximum. So we're starting from the worst version and in that worst version we're making a difference from 0.6% that's negative. It will certainly be a surplus at the end of 2018. So there won't be a deficit just because of the starting point, just like the minister said. Nothing is more natural when at the end of the financial year a surplus, expected to do so and divide the government's employees. Let me just tell you one thing, among the employees there are more who are not members of the SNS than members of the SNS. Therefore, this is not a reward for members of the SNS. This is a reward for all those who work in the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27386	The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27387	Thank you very much. It's interesting to listen to these discussions. We had a similar discussion last year about what is formal, and what is essentially considered a rebalance, but I wouldn't repeat that discussion. I just want to say that the proposed amendment to the law, which applies to only one member of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017, only adds the possibility of paying the rewards and bonuses to employees of the beneficiary of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. This absolutely does not change the essence, and the point is that total expenditure for employees must remain within the framework of what is budgeted. This does not change the economic and political essence, which is that expenditure on public sector employees must remain no more than 8.3% of expected GDP. This does not change the essence that the right to decide, proposals and responsibilities are borne by or by government ministers who propose it or, finally, by the government that proposes and adopts it and treats it accordingly. Therefore, your concern may seem justified to you, but everything here is transparent. Only discretionary rights are allowed. I will add one thing that is very important from the point of view of budgeting and managing fiscal risks. Awards and bonuses refer to previous periods, known performances, well-known results both in revenues and in expenditures and in performances of concrete ministries, concrete parts of the ministries. If rewards were not allowed, then no way would be acceptable, because reflecting this through regular wages would create future fiscal risk. That's exactly where we headed when we created huge deficits. Therefore, single prizes and bonuses, based on real performances, are based on discretionary but responsible ministry decisions, the government's proposals and decisions are, in my opinion, fully in line with international and our rules and laws. This is not considered a rebalancing because we are not engaged in an assessment of total income and expenditure, income and budget expenditure, but are only talking about total expenditures for employees. This is where space was created and these decisions must remain within the space that was created. I wouldn't enter any specific figures, since we haven't got the final data for this year, I'm just stressing that responsibility remains on those who propose these changes, and it will be up to you to assess whether it was consistent with strategic and other objectives and results or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27388	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27389	Mr. Minister, here, as we have heard from the ruling coalition MPs, you, as you say, are always moving from the worst possible option in the budget projection, and I agree that this is really a natural state for you. There's another dilemma here. MPs, either you don't know what you're talking about or you don't understand MPs of the ruling coalition. We have heard until a moment that there is a surplus, as the surplus has appeared, as this is due to a huge increase in income, because the revenues are projected as a minimum, and they have been increased by a third in the first nine months. A third, that's a lot. And there's a lot of 3% in the budget, and 0.3% in the budget, and you're flirting like that, and you say, we're over a third. If you had exceeded your income by a third, Serbia would have been in a far better situation than it is. The second thing, from your argument that this amendment to the Budget Act for 2017 is actually passed, but by staying within the framework of the budget, it tells us that there is no surplus, nor is there an increase in revenue. Is that right? So there's no income increase. Members of the ruling coalition, here, confirmed by the minister, you don't know anything, and you don't understand anything. There's no increase in revenue. It stays in what's supposed to be budgeted. The other thing is, you give the minister discretionary rights, as you said, to decide on rewards and bonuses once, so you said. So either it'll be for all the employees, as we've heard before, in those services, or you're giving discretionary authority to the minister to reward individuals. If there is such authority and such discretion, then, I think, Mr Krasic, who has submitted this amendment and who has said that you are actually asking us to empower someone to be Santa Claus. If everything is within the budget, why didn't we have this provision when we were making the budget for 2017? Then why didn't you claim that this discretionary authority was needed? How did you function all these years ago? Why is it necessary now, then, to explain to us what it is that has changed and so much so that we now need to have this? Does this mean that you haven't rewarded anyone so far and that you've just been leading yourself to what you're now declaring to be a counter, which is that, regardless of the effect, people get paid, get bonuses, get rewards? You need to take a little care of your reasons. It is good that you have confirmed that the representatives and MPs of the ruling coalition have not understood this and it is good that you have confirmed that there is no increase in income and no surpluses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27390	The word has a minister, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27391	I would really ask you to listen carefully and carefully to your words. We're not flirting with anything. The increase in revenue is the category relating to the total budget of Article 1. Here the proposed change refers to Article 16(2) and writes – item 3 is added to allow the payment of prizes and bonuses to employees. Read what it says in the Bill of Amendments. Only one member changes, one thing changes. Secondly, total revenues have increased, as we have repeatedly announced, total revenues absolutely do not define this. It's not about the share of the salary for the total income, it's about GDP, I've quoted it to you. Therefore, the term for us to flirt absolutely does not stand. It's an inadequate term, and you didn't support anything. Your excerpt, a logical copy, is completely unfounded. The revenue has increased because we have data that income has increased. It's not about these income categories, it's about GDP. Read the Budgetary System Act. It says very clearly that our long-term goal of paying public sector employees is not to be more than 8% of GDP. We are still above it for now, and we are trying to narrow it down and get to that balanced size within an appropriate time limit. So don't make a mess. The proceeds are above plan. The surplus exists, but we're talking about sub-categories here. We are not changing Article 1 or Article 8, but only allowing it to be in the context of a category called – staff expenditures, permits, among other things, a risk-free reward for the results achieved in the previous period. That all denies what you said, absolutely. If you have a problem with the word “discretional, ” and you want linearly, if you mind people being responsible, discreetly responsible for their decisions, then somewhere else you need to look in the law where you're going to write. I'm against being governed by the law. I'm against the linear distribution of anything. I'm in favour of people proposing responsibly, not deciding, proposing, and the government making a decision. It says here - it can be done based on the government's decision. Therefore, ministers have the right to propose on the basis of very clearly reasoned results, the risk of rewarding and others, which will be subject to, among other things, the Law on Salaries. I don't understand why that's confusing you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27392	Time. Nemanja Sarovic: Replica. There is no basis for replication. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure? There isn't. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. I don't allow abuses. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 1 of the amendment he submitted... Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Just lower tone. (I Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure, I answered. Yeah, you said replica, and then you picked up. Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27393	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, Mr. Blazic, the regrets that come from the ranks, listen very carefully, Drpocrat parties, so I said, that there would be no replica, is an auto projection. So, those who have made their own revenues out of public income, turning them into ways that have already been described, which have made public functions private businesses, which have lost or missed budget forecasts, and by a billion and a half, cannot understand that a state that sustains itself from public income has been created, therefore, which can finance, and the budget is forecast, to fund everything and to remain safe, and that the rest should be deployed to those, and we have 20 days until the end of the year, that this surplus should also be deployed in those 20 days, normally, that the body that can do so effectively is the government. The pensioners got more. No employees, that's my advice to the government members and the finance minister, with the lowest income they get more. That money will return to the PIO part. Before New Year's Eve, people will buy something for themselves and their loved ones, not to take that money to Maldives, but to buy the goods for that money and 20% will return for some next budget. So the government will again benefit from its savings and those who have been wasteful throughout their mandate cannot possibly understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27394	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27395	Mrs. Gojkovic, you have violated several members of the Rules of Procedure. You are the few moments when I reported to the Rules of Procedure, you said – there is no Rules of Procedure, I do not allow abuses of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 103, the MP shall have the right to orally indicate an infringement in the conduct of the Chair of the National Assembly if he considers that what has been done is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, directly after the injury has been done. You were required to comply with this article to give me your word immediately. You do not have any discretionary authority to state before I get the chance to indicate which member is injured and to explain how he is injured, that you say – you have no right. Nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does it say that you can determine the part of the session where a member of 103 does not apply. It just doesn't exist. You were obliged to give me your word. When I get a chance to explain, then you can tell if I'm right or wrong, before that at all. The second thing, Article 158, paragraph 7, was injured, and you also hurt him because he says that the legislator, or the authorised representative of the legislator, has the right to speak of each amendment for up to two minutes. Mr Vujovic spoke in a second announcement for more than two and a half minutes, he had previously spoken for two minutes and 45 seconds. In a debate on amendments, the minister cannot, as in principle, speak indefinitely and have an unlimited number of times appear. They have too many privileges anyway, and you have the right to say two minutes turned into talking twice, and every time for more than two and a half minutes. He spoke for more than five minutes... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27396	Thank you. (Imanja Sarovic: Can I finish my sentence? I don't want to make the same mistake, so you can say it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You want us to vote on these violations of the Rules of Procedure? (Nemnja Sarovic: Can you give me an explanation once?) ) First of all, you are wrong and I have no other explanation, except for which I have already given you, and I do not want to disturb the course of the session by repeating it. And the second time you didn't listen well, the minister got a line. Nemanja Sarovic: The minister has no right to do so. Find it for me in the Rules of Procedure and I'll use it. But when you're chairman, I'd be very happy to attend those sessions. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27397	Thank you. In my previous presentation, I said that I stand out from those criticisms by Minister Vujovic, because he has past work and he proved it by saying that the ruling majority does not understand. So I thank him for that. What's the point of rewards and bonuses? The point, Minister Vujovicu, is that the Serbian Progressive Party hired 70,000 party listeners, despite the ban on employment. It is that every member of the Serbian Progressive Party or citizen who received the job, every night in Negotin, Kostolc, Mionici and Pećinci gets guests, uninvited guests from the Serbian Progressive Party who threaten him if they do not secure 30 votes. Yeah, I'm talking about the amendment, about rewards and bonuses. That's what I'm talking about. We have suggested that it be deleted that the Government gets this discretionary right to have budgetary resources. And now I'm saying why. I said we're not against getting someone, if he deserves a reward or a bonus, but we're deeply against it, in that way, being conducted by Branko Malovic and other beatings of the Serbian Progressive Party. They bulldoze all public administration employees, anyone who doesn't vote for them and doesn't raise enough votes, is threatened to get fired after the election. Indeed, in such an atmosphere should not and cannot be worked in 2017. I ask you, Minister Vujovic, to check this information. This is not a pre-election flossula, this is not a political speech, this is the truth that is happening in Serbia. Well, people were brought into Serbia for one tweet or Facebook status. What kind of freedoms are we talking about? Do you know that people across Serbia cannot talk and say – we are afraid, please don't just see us talking to you. Is that the democracy we're talking about? When did this happen in Serbia? It did not happen in 1995, 1996, in 1997, when Slobodan Milosevic led Serbia. It's happening now, in 2017. I'm not saying this because of the interest of my political party. I'm talking about thousands and thousands of people who have been threatened every day, who have been harassed, who work for 22,000 in the community, and then someone's harassing them. People ask that someone sign their "safe voice" form and say, "Please don't vote, I just have to take it to the SNS or I'll get fired." No one's watching you do your job. No one sees whether the citizens in these municipalities are satisfied whether the clerk on the counter did the forms on time, but they are talking about whether you have made a "safe voice" or not. If you have brought a “safe voice, ” you do not have to come to work. That's why it's like this. Minister Vujovic, since you are the only one in the government who has morals and who has work behind him and who is not politically colored in this way that are political fighters and SPS and SNS, I am responsible for telling you that this is done in every local self-government. This should get in the way, too. This wasn't done in the '90s, as it is now. It's never been done. I'm young so I don't remember Tito's time, but since 1998, 1999, 2000, it's never been done. And just tell me what's so controversial about erasing this amendment? I've just given you a series of reasons why. Well, people get fired, the court gets them back to work, the state pays their wages, pays their fines, their penalties, their court fees. Mr. Vujovicu, that's what we pay for. Why should we, who are not for SNS, pay for the mistakes of the Serbian Progressive Party? Because they did not like an official because he did not bring them 30 “secure voices. ” That's the Serbia we live in today. It is Serbia against which the Democratic Party is fighting. It's the Serbian Progressive Party we've been fighting for 27 years. And we will win, as we won in 2000.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27398	Replica, the word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27399	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers and fellow MPs, we have the opportunity to hear a flagrant violation of the basic logic spoken by the previous speaker who says 400 people receive social aid for 40,000 dinars in Mionica, who are members of the Serbian Progressive Party. The families receive 40,000 dinars, and there are no 400 maternity homes in Mionica. Thus, such a type of illogicality shows the previous speaker precisely because one of the main creators of the hole in the four billion budget in its local self-government. The second thing, when they talk about the fear of the Serbian Progressive Party and citizens who want to talk, they don't want to talk to those who have managed to get the state into a situation where we don't have to pay salaries and pensions, but they want to talk to people who think about their future and have to pay off their families with 40,000 dinars, and what it's going to look like in the future, don't wait too long. After the local elections, we'll have a chance to see that policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27400	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27401	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, you have injured an officer. 107th and 109th because you were obliged to, regardless of your exceptional tolerance, give notice to Parliamentarian Milojic, in a people known as "Heineken", for the simple reason he spoke of SNS beatings. He was talking about violence. The dignity of the National Assembly was injured by a team before the viewers certainly knew that in the last four, five years on the street, you had not seen that one pendrek to any citizen, at any political protest, regardless of which they had not been reported in accordance with the law. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is a team larger than it was said by a person who not so long ago in the center of Palanca beat up an old man of 63 years with the help of the so-called. Ken's tigers only because he thought otherwise. So it's a violation of dignity, a parliamentary group whose party, when it was the authorities, killed Ranko Panic in a protest that was legal, declared, etc. With that in mind, you've been under the obligation to make a violation of dignity, in accordance with Article 109, but since this session should take place in some tolerated tone, I understand you, but you must try in any way to prevent, in future, the one who beat up a 63-year-old Smederian Palanca with the help of Kenna's tigers from saying these qualifications for someone who doesn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27402	Are you asking to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure? The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27403	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, I will talk about the amendment, but I think, colleague Tomic, that many will be uncomfortablely surprised after these elections in Smederjevska Palanca and the March elections in other municipalities and cities. So, Minister, you said in your reply to colleague Sarovic – how can you be against a responsible discretionary right to reward someone, yes, etc. No one is against the responsible discretionary rights of the minister, the president of the municipalities, etc., but it is against irresponsible discretion everywhere where there is 1% discretion, that discretion is misused. We want to start by using the budget reserve, so you can tell us what the criteria are, by which some municipalities of the ruling majority get at 100 million dinars, others get nothing? Although there are normal legal grounds to get that money. There's one discretionary right. What are the discretionary rights of municipalities, how are they used? My colleague Milojicic talked about it. Well, our community presidents have been arrested for that. What's going on today in Mionica, Negotina, the Caves? So we're not against responsible discretion based on certain criteria. There are no criteria here and you know it, and they will not be divided by any criteria, but by politicality and obedience. That's why we're against this, and that's why we filed an amendment to erase it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27404	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want to discuss this amendment? No, I don't. ) Members Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27405	Dear Ministers, you have explained that the possibility of paying the prize and bonus in 2017 is foreseen by this revision of the Budget Law for 2017. And here you avoided telling exactly who. The essence of our amendment is that this change is specified and that rewards and bonuses are paid to employees in education and education, and employees in the health care system. We believe, from our parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party – the People's Party, that because of Serbia's future, if it is necessary to reward someone from the Republic of Serbia's budget, it is necessary to do so to employees in education, child education and in the health system, respecting, of course, the efforts of all who work fairly in the public sector, how the law defines both in the state administration and in the security system. We believe that for Serbia's future, these two areas are the most important. What would be good to hear by the end of the debate, since I see that this amendment is not accepted either by the government, and I believe that unfortunately it will not be accepted by the MPs either, why have you decided or will decide that if this amendment is adopted, support the adoption of a decision that these bonuses be paid only to employees in the security system? What is the criterion for everyone else to rule out if the money has so much that the budget is in surplus and not in the planned deficit? If we want to comply with the Budget Law and end the year with the planned deficit, as the law has prescribed, then there is certainly room for payment and other rewards and other in other areas and education and education systems, health care, perhaps not in the amount that you have planned, or announced in the media as already done. Weeks ago, we've been listening to 10,000 dinars get paid. And today, the prime minister, she's still got something better to do than be here, saying somewhere that it's already done, and we're just discussing a law that should leave the government to decide eventually. I think it's an additional humiliation to the assembly and devising everything we're doing here. If we still have to make a decision here after the debate and the vote, then it's inappropriate for the Prime Minister to go around saying it's a done deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27406	The minister has a word. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27407	Thank you very much. I thank you for continuing this discussion. I understand it in a highly constructive way. I just want to point out one thing. This is the law. This is where we write the principles. I'm against the rule of law, although I understand your concern and your desire to make that clear. Then we would defect all others and responsibility and right. Secondly, I stress the discretionary right to propose, and this is not just improvisation. This is deep in the rewarding system according to the results achieved so-called "supervised". performance indicators. We're going to propose it in the Payments Act and they're against everyone, so this is such a profound change. We can't do it by not allowing bonuses, and we didn't let them, not because bonuses aren't allowed, but because of the second part of the sentence, without the government's decision. In the past, jubilee prizes and bonuses were allowed where individual ministers, individual units of local self-government, decided not to consider the overall budget and other co-consequences proposed bonuses to do so to people. Maybe they were right, but there was no system to control both the responsibility and the overall effects of that. Maybe my view is different from yours. I'm just saying -- abolishing that discretionary right, you're not going to achieve anything by that. We're going to have a huge surplus that we can't share because aside from the overall surplus, we have limited participations of individual elements of expenditure in GDP, and so until we have had we've already shared a bonus, because there's space and they haven't been outside of that participation in GDP. Here we need to allow a bonus category. There's no bonus and reward to be realized differently than someone's discretionary proposal and approval by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27408	The word has Nemanja Sarovic after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27409	Here's another question, Mr. Minister. I believe that you, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, will be able to answer the fifth time. You're talking about you're against the regulation of the law, the rule of law. You've been a minister for a long time. This isn't the first or the second. You've had budgets and budgets. I wonder, when did you come to this knowledge, when did it break in you and when did you come to this idea? If this is so good, how come it didn't occur to you earlier to suggest it? The second thing, if you say it will be and it will be arranged in this way to make it responsible, it means it's been irresponsible so far. The third thing, there are no criteria, no criteria are signed. Only general authority has been given to be Santa Claus and it will go through the government, but that does not mean that you have a clear and precise criterion and, most importantly, that criterion is not defined. No criteria are defined by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27410	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27411	Thank you. To Article 1. I have submitted an amendment to the budget rebalancing law for 2017, but not to delete the provisions of this article, although I respect and support the argument, especially this normative part explained by Mr Krasic, for a simple reason, because eradicating this provision means denying employees in the way provided for in the 2017 budget. During the adoption of the 2017 budget, I advocated with my fellow Members that this provision should be amended. Therefore, the Budget Law does not suspend the rights of employees when it comes to rewards and bonuses that are, as the budget says, prescribed, or guaranteed by Article 120. Law on general, special, individual, collective agreements and, of course, other acts with budgetary users. So, if I've advocated the suspension of these rights then, I can't be determined to extend it now, even these few days by the end of the year. However, I object to the way it is done, and in this sense I have submitted an amendment that is precise and perhaps someone will interpret, perhaps the minister, that this is exactly what is written, that it is exclusively from Article 1 and 2 of this Member's payment – a gift in money, Christmas, annual awards and bonuses, as well as other receipts from Article 120 of Article 1(4). The labour law, provided for in specific and individual collective agreements and other acts, for direct and indirect budgetary users, etc... So, the way it was suspended by the Budget Law for 2017. With the budget for this year, the amending provision has been prescribed, as stated then and is now confirmed, that for reasons of macroeconomic stability, the Republic of Serbia's budget will not be paid out of the fines, bonuses and rewards provided for by the Labour Law, etc. At that time, we pointed out that the annual law, such as the Budget Law, for each and every year for 2017, cannot suspend the rights that are guaranteed to employees by law and other acts, by sublegal acts, which are either signed or agreed between employers and employees such as collective agreements, and then, that irony is greater than the exception, if I may say so, except for jubilee awards. The amendment of the law is also an exception because the budget provision for 2017 is an exception. So, in that year, no rewards and bonuses will be paid, and now at the very end of the year, we make an exception. I wish, Mr. Minister, that you had asked us some of what you know, I suppose, at least in the debate, because if the nurse, as the President of Parliament informed us at the conference the other day, asked us - when 10,000 prizes or bonuses will be paid, I don't know what, the President of Parliament said – well, when the debate is over, we try to make it sooner. So there's still something known, and I guess when you say that there's a space within the frameworks of these funds for employees' salaries, etc., that it won't be breached, you've explained it more than once today. It means that there is still more knowledge of the size of that space and that there is something in that space that can be worth it. Now, at this point, you can say -- well, yes, but today I can't know how many ministers they're going to suggest and how many of them they're going to be. I think it would still be correct for MPs, or the National Assembly, to be informed about it and say, we estimate, that I don't know, that some surplus in those frameworks that are planned for the budget, that don't break through, I don't know, 100 units, and we fit in with that. How it will be deployed will be seen later. I still think there's something you could have said. On the other hand, let me use a few more sentences when it comes to jubilee awards. They were the exception and the budget, they remain, of course, and I don't know, Mr. Minister, why the 2018 budget, or why the law doesn't change that the Jubilee Educational Awards don't pay off the Ministry. Because, look, it's the only case, the only situation where local self-government is the second level of government, paying jubilee rewards to employees at the Ministry. That law hasn't been passed since you've been here, but maybe something could have changed that. I speak from experience, I was led by a municipality when it seems to me, in 2012, the same way as now made an exception to bonuses and prizes, made for jubilee awards, that it seems to me in 2010 or 2012, now it's not even as important, I think Mr. Obradovic was a minister, then it won't pay for jubilee awards in that year. You know, when the unions pressured the Ministry next year, then local self-government was forced to pay the two-year jubilee prize at the end of next year in December. You know, I think suspending the rights of employees, jubilee rewards, bonuses, etc., everything that's provided for by some acts like this, just like I think it's going to be with temporary pension cuts, that one day it's going to have some implications for some of the next budgets. So, in that sense, I'm going to use the discussion under this amendment to ask you to deal with it. Local self-government introduced the obligation of jubilee awards, on the grounds that the Education Minister then agreed with the union to pay local self-government. At that time local self-government did not increase the funds for these expenditures. In the meantime, we also had a reduction in the overall profit tax rate from 12 to 10%, so we had a reduction in the transfer funds, etc. All this justice is due to some macroeconomic economic reasons, and local self-government continues to have that obligation. But not so much because of the volume of funds, it may be a million dinars at the level of one average local self-government, 500, 700 thousand dinars of average size, but because we wouldn't come into a situation where the Ministry, because of the failure to pay jubilee rewards, is reducing the transfer funds to local self-governments for the amount of unpaid jubilee awards, and at the same time, you replied to Mr. Lapčević last night on the Finance Committee, so you can't, which you understand, you can't pay directly through school, because it's the opposite of the law. So I ask you to do something in that direction in the following year, in order to simply separate the competences of local self-government, for example. When it comes to jubilee awards, I think it should go directly from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27412	Thank you. An MP named Miodrag Lint submitted to the 1st Amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27413	Dear Madam President, honourable gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1 concerning improving the situation of the refugees and displaced persons and Serbs in the region. I want to remind the public of the harsh facts of the '90s. It is well known that half a million Serbs were expelled from today's Croatia, by the Ustasha regime of Franjo Tudjman. It is well known that about half a million Serbs were also expelled from the Federation of BiH, and the main cause was the policy of unitary and pro-Islam BiH, led by Ali Izetbegovic. It is well known that more than 200,000 Serbs and other non-Albanians have been expelled from the KIM area. Banished Serbs face a large number of problems. Unfortunately, in the previous period, a large majority of these problems have failed to resolve, related to their property, acquired, status and other rights. The position of the remaining Serbs in Croatia in the Federation of BiH is tragic. They're second-class citizens. Their main problem is systematic discrimination by competent state, local authorities, as well as discrimination in the part of the legislation. I just want to remind myself of one fact in Croatia we have the 2003 Law on the Rights of National Minorities, which legally gives numerous rights to the remaining Serbs in Croatia, 186,000 of them, as many as are in that area. The law also guaranteed the issue of the official use of Serbian language and letters and the issue of the employment of Serbs in state authorities. Unfortunately, those provisions are a dead letter on paper. On the other hand, I want to say that the state of Serbia is doing everything in its power to help the survival of the remaining Serbs in both Croatia and the Federation of BiH and KIM. We have a series of projects that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has helped and I want to say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is indeed running one policy of active support for our people in these parts. In the following amendments, I will talk more about concrete problems and concrete aspects of the support of the Republic of Serbia to our countrymen both in Croatia and the Federation of BiH, but also in Republika Srpska, and especially in KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27414	Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. Do they want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27415	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Budget Law for 2018. I have heard from my fellow MPs, who do not support the government, some who will never support the government, some who are the former regime, and all their discussion comes down to the fact that when taken through austerity measures, that someone is personally pushing some intrepid citizens, pensioners and public administration employees. Some former presidents of the municipality even wanted the Republic of Serbia's budget to pay rewards and bonuses to their employees in the pre-school and school education system, as he forgot that he was the founder, or local self-government, and not the Republic, so if he wants to reward, he should provide funds. What it really looked like when the state was private until 2012, now I'm going to explain. That's what I had in mind when I put up with this amendment. The budget of the Republic of Serbia operates on a consolidated principle. So when certain funds are paid, the insolvency of all those who have money in the vault account is seen. Some former prime ministers, at the time it wasn't, but it was. By 2012, we had some alleged programming obligations, some of the loans we had raised, and we didn't have projects to realise these loans. Now, what the gentlemen came up with from the former regime, what to do with that money, because their realisation of investments was up to 10% at the level of the year. That same money was being paid back to the same banks, at a far lower interest rate than the state was in debt. As they reduced the insolvency of the consolidated account of the Republic of Serbia, when pensions or profits come in the public sector and are due to be paid off by 2012, then again of these same banks, at significantly higher interest rates, concluded new contracts and loans. That's how it worked when the state was private by 2012. What did you have as a consequence? As a consequence, you had about 12% inflation in the Republic of Serbia. The result was that the national currency lost 11 to 12 dinars in value compared to the euro over one year, so that they reportedly would increase 5% pensions, and inflation and the difference in the euro ate it twice. You had a situation of interest, because now all credits are taken by the state, the public and the economy pay 30%, and as a result you've had a loss of 250 to 400 thousand jobs. That's what it looked like by 2012, when someone had a private state and someone really took away from pensioners and public administration employees and public sector employees and anyone who did anything in Serbia. To make things worse, you paid four and a half billion euros from the Republic of Serbia's foreign reserves. These are the results of those who are proposing laws here, so we've been listening to their proposals all day to supplement the agenda. I'm just asking one question - where did you get so smart after 2012? Why weren't you so honest, so valuable, so capable by 2012? Not that we're solving, but here's the sixth year, the problems we inherited, that you've made.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27416	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27417	Thank you, Your Honor. Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, distinguished fellow MPs, do not know if there is a particular need to point out how important it is for a society to fight against a tumor called crime and corruption. When it comes to crime and corruption, the Republic of Serbia's budget is not spared either. In fact, as dangerous as it may be, I'll simply, on one case from 2007, explain it to you. Somewhere in realising the 2007 budget, a request was submitted in August for the subsidisation of the construction of a famous vineyard in Krcadin. The subsidy was paid on account of the planting of vineyards in August of the month, and the vineyard was essentially planted in November, when the land was also rented. I simply wanted to show you an example of what the impact of crime and corruption on the implementation of the budget, as it was in 2007. I think that the citizens of Serbia are otherwise known in that period by 2012 as to what the people of the then tycoons government, the people of the crime scene were doing. After all, the consequences of this association are also known. They were in the joint business of robbing Serbia, and the ways were different, from those of the 2000 robbery privatisation, to various combinations, as they were then vividly called, and the consequences were mostly their enormous wealth on the one hand, the robbery of state money, and on the other hand the unconstitutional collapse of the state and the poverty of its people. I would like to remind you that immediately after the Serbian Progressive Party came to power, Aleksandar Vukic, its president, had no problem and did not hesitate to deal with these problems at the time. The biggest problem was that the people involved in Serbia's robbery were essential authorities in Serbia, and the formal government carried out one party of yellow events, but the essential owners were these tycoons. I also remind you that, after coming to the Serbian Progressive Party's power, these same people were behind prison bars and the great fight against crime and corruption began. Of course, we, as MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, will continue to support these and such amendments, so that the government of the Republic of Serbia insists on this important job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27418	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27419	Thank you, Chairman. So, the aim of my amendment is to further encourage the development of infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia. Infrastructure is the key to development for our country, connecting with other countries and, of course, it also increases the competitiveness of our economy. This means that the state of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia must continue to develop infrastructure, as only good infrastructure will have a better connection with neighbours, we will have an increase in goods that are transiting through Serbia, and good infrastructure, of course, guarantees the inflow of new investments and the creation of new jobs. The government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the previous one, understands this perfectly and has set up infrastructure as one of the priorities. Serbia has a central strategic position in the region and geographically, and since the arrival of the Serbian Progressive Party, we have become a political leader in the region, which is our main competitive advantage. It's working and building in Serbia. These aren't just stories like when the Democratic Party ruled and we listened to all sorts of false and unfulfilled visions and ideas. This is today Serbia where clear plans and clear deadlines exist, and the value of projects in the area of infrastructure, both current and planned, exceeds 12 billion euros. The aim of the state of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia is for Serbia to be a network of corridors well connected to its neighbours, because only in this way can we increase transit through Serbia, we can lead to investments in the Republic of Serbia and lead to greater employment in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27420	Thank you. (Saša Radulovic: Rules of Procedure! ) The word has Saša Radulović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27421	Article 106 has been injured. - The speaker has to talk about the agenda point. The amendment reads this: "The implementation of the Republic of Serbia's 2017 budget is realised to the greatest extent possible to improve the development of infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia. “ The speaker did not say anything about this amendment. This amendment doesn't change anything in the budget. Apparently, they are trying to take a time to discuss the amendments, so that there is no debate on amendments to the Republic of Serbia's 2018 budget. So over 300 of these amendments that contain nothing in themselves, change nothing in the law, empty sentences and then go to discussions that have nothing to do with the text of the amendment. Thus, this is a great abuse of the congregation. You've connected all the agenda points to one, so you can take all the time. This will be the only time so far in history that we have a session of the Assembly that does not discuss amendments to the 2018 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27422	Yes, we will consider this the same as the political abuse of the Rules of Procedure, as MP Blaža Knezevic explained why the implementation of the 2017 budget is being implemented in order to improve the development of infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia to the greatest extent possible. As for the submission of the amendments, you know what it looks like because you have submitted 900 of the same amendments, and how I treat one MPs as well as the other. Amendments are allowed. Do you want us to vote for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Thank you. The National MP Milena Turk submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27423	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, which reads - Article 1 adds: "The implementation of the Republic of Serbia's 2017 budget is implemented to the greatest extent that even regional development in the Republic of Serbia is improved." The amendment aims to further encourage and strengthen the even development of the Republic of Serbia, and this measure is possible on the basis of the savings achieved so far in the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of the stabilisation of financing and on the basis of the programme that the government of the Republic of Serbia has made, precisely to achieve Serbia's regional development. We are witnessing that the arrival of SNS and Alexander Vukic has started a balanced, balanced investment in all parts of Serbia and that this commitment to even development is evident and uncontested. The factories are also opened in Nis and Leskovec and Krusevec and Novi Sad, therefore, throughout Serbia and commitment to the development of the economy after years of devasting and destruction is undeniable and visible. This is not only a declarative push to improve the quality of life of all our citizens, but to invest in Rasinski, Toplička, Nisavska, Raška district, so in all Serbia with the aim of raising the economy, raising agriculture, education and improving and restoring infrastructure. So far, we have witnessed investments in a politically similar municipality, but the government of the Republic of Serbia has changed this practice by organising and adopting a development strategy and the objective of this practice is to restore Serbia as a whole and especially for years of neglected municipalities. So in order to further encourage even development, I submit this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27424	The word is Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27425	It's a business thing. Article 106 again. I'll read the amendment that's explained...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27426	He can't do the same. The Rules of Procedure can't do the same. Don't yell. (Saša Radulovic: An injury has been done by...) She can't. She can't. I can't. He can't do it. I'd rather not apply a time-consuming sanction, since the immediate injury was not done. (Saša Radulovic: I reported in accordance with Article 106)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27427	Thank you. The implementation of the Republic of Serbia's 2017 budget is realised by improving to the greatest extent possible even regional development in the Republic of Serbia. We just had infrastructure, now we have regional development. For two minutes, the e-mail explained something that had nothing to do with this amendment. The amendment does not change anything by law, the MP herself will not vote for it, as they did not vote on the Committee, so in no way does nothing change in the law itself, nor does it vote. This is one big farce where you're trying to stop the amendment from being explained.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27428	Ambassador, this really has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Saša Radulovic: Article 106) Once again, Article 106, and again, Article 106, and probably by the end of the day, Article 106, that's the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. I have to do it myself. As you can see, I'm listening to the debate, I don't have any physical or verbal actions, because abuse is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I would do a breach of the Rules of Procedure, really if I let you talk all day about something that's not related to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. I don't write amendments, I don't explain them. This amendment wants to speak of Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27429	I am very happy that my colleagues from the government have started to write amendments and that says a lot of good things. First, that they are able to write amendments and that they can use their ability to do so. Secondly, this ability to write amendments tells us that the draft budget is bad. There is no other reason to write amendments in no parliament in the world, but to point out that the bill is bad. When MPs write 300 or 400 amendments, it means that these laws are no good, because otherwise, if they were good, you wouldn't be writing so many amendments. This brilliant formulation, which I am delighted with, reads as follows: "to the greatest extent possible", and to the greatest extent possible for refugees, for regional development, for agriculture, for the fight against crime, for whatever it is, it is exactly what the Serbian government is proposing – that to any extent, let alone to the greatest extent, it deals with anything that has anything to do with anything that is good for this country. I'm delighted with your performance.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27430	MP, be kind, about even regional development.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27431	I call on the public of Serbia to monitor closely, to leave everything else, not all of them, all of those few million who have been employed in the last two or three years, which you have hired, to stop all major works around Belgrade and Serbia and, therefore, to the greatest extent possible, as it says in the amendment to Article 1, let us focus on what is most important, and that is to correct these poor bill proposals. Although I think the better solution is that the ruling majority is looking for a government shift, because if the government is unable to make a good budget law for 2017 at 18 days by the end of the year, as much as there is left, counting holidays and weeks, you can hardly fix it by making them do what is good for Serbia to the greatest extent possible. If in 330 and a few days the SNS coalition, the SPS, I don't know what they called these Ljajics and these others failed to do anything good for Serbia, with the best of will, it won't be possible to do it for St. Nicholas, not for Army Day, not for Christmas, not for New Year, one or the other, or one or the other. Therefore, I support you in writing the amendments, but I think you have until the end of the year, and perhaps already today, to collect enough signatures and to seek the shift of the Serbian government, with an explanation that they are unable to do anything, and that you have shown by writing 300-400 amendments to these laws. It's possible that something missed that you didn't notice, it's possible that this government mistake, that it's a catastrophic law so bad that there would be a thousand amendments just that you had a little more time and that you had before and used your ability to write the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27432	I only ask the MPs to talk about the concrete amendments, since we have finished our discussion in principle. According to the amendment, who wants to see those reported? Minister Vujovicu, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27433	I just want to offer an interpretation of this amendment as we read it. We read all the amendments carefully and answered them. This amendment is absolutely not contrary to the idea of submitting amendments as additions to members who are changing. I read it like this – to make the maximum extent of improving the regional development of the Republic of Serbia, and the basic amendment reads – to allow the payment of prizes and bonuses. So, in other words, this offers one criterion for paying prizes and bonuses to make sure that this is done in those areas of government action that contribute to the even regional development of Serbia. It is a completely legitimate proposal, however, we do not approve of it because we think, that, unlike some of your proposals that are completely unarticulated, this is a completely legitimate proposal and is legitimate because it offers one of the possible criteria. We disagree with him and reject him because we do not want to put into criteria because we do not know which criteria are possible and leave it in the jurisdiction of individual ministries and government to decide. So this defines the decision-making space, and the decision-making is going on there and the way it's arranged in the world, so hopefully with us. Therefore, discretion and evaluation of decision-making is a necessary element, and responsibility goes hand in hand, is on the one who agrees and makes the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27434	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27435	Thank you. Article 107 has been broken. Rules of Procedure. You broke it because you didn't warn the minister that he didn't take offense to the MPs. This seems to have become the minister's manners since he's been doing it on the board, and not putting it here to be used in words that simply don't belong to this House. I don't understand why the minister is nervous about these things to support these amendments, just means he's afraid to discuss the budget. The ruling majority MPs themselves will not support such amendments as they themselves propose, only the time is over to save the minister from discussing amendments in particular. I ask the chairman to warn the minister that he treats the MPs politely and does not use abusive words, I will not repeat them here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27436	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure do you want? And you don't want to. Thank you very much. What does Milan Lapcevic want to discuss the amendment? I just can't have a moment if you're yelling at me to communicate with MPs who don't yell at me. Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27437	Like all of us, I'm going to talk about my colleague's amendment, and unlike others, I would really support this amendment, and I think the amendment has been submitted with good intentions. I believe that her fellow MPs from the majority will vote in favour of this amendment and that it will be included in the law, because I suppose the motive for writing this amendment was that we have, for years or decades, a huge problem with unbalanced regional development. I suppose the initialisation for writing this amendment and what it says in the Republic of Serbia's 2018 budget, and it says among other things that the main projects that will be implemented in Belgrade and the immediate surroundings of Belgrade will, for example, be the Zemun transport station, 30m euros. Well, another loan for the Zemun transport station 22m euros, for building a railway station downtown Belgrade, 50m euros, for a bypass -- one around Belgrade 180m, and for the second roundabout 450m euros. For the wastewater treatment collector 250m euros also in Belgrade and for the 160m-euro hot water pipeline in Belgrade as well. It is more than one billion euros in credit loans for the development of infrastructure in Belgrade and around Belgrade. So if so much money is planned to be charged with spending on development, there will be no infrastructure in Belgrade, and I believe there is a need for that, then what does the rest of Serbia expect? So for the rest of Serbia, it would take ten times more money to invest to start developing those undeveloped landscapes, so that we could count on people living in those areas to have motives to stay there, not to send their children to finish schools and stay in Belgrade or go abroad. One of the main problems of this country is unbalanced regional development. Instead of taking care of it in the 2017 budget and this for 2018 budget and focusing on the development of infrastructure primarily in undeveloped parts of Serbia, we have again due to the pre-election year of enormous money pumping in construction in Belgrade and around Belgrade. Well, that went all the way, to predict threem euros to build a gondola in Belgrade for 2018 from the state budget. Sorry, the gondola in Belgrade is a local project, such as the Gondola on Zlatibor local project. Why didn't the state let such a gondola be built on Zlatibor? Why didn't she let it be built on the Old Mountain or I don't know where? She did not give because they are local projects, and they will give money to all taxpayers of the state of Serbia and those living in Babusnica, and those living in the White Palanca, and those living in Srlig, and those living in Mionica will be used to build a gondola in Belgrade. Why? Because next year is an election year and because elections are to be won in Belgrade. Ministers, as an expert, a man with integrity, you should have taken care of it and not let the money of all Serbian citizens be used in this way to further develop the capital, and there is no word about what the colleague said about equal regional development. In this way, there will be even greater differences in development and even more people from eastern and western Serbia, from southern Serbia to the developed Belgrade, and there will be desolation. Then we wonder who will live in these parts, why only our old men live and how we will guard that border. I'm sure we won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27438	The word is Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27439	Dear President, I would support the amendment of my distinguished colleague Milena for equal regional development, and I will say something quite the opposite than my previous colleague has now said. It invests in southeastern Serbia, invests in Nis, invests in Srlig for jobs, invests in road infrastructure, invests in tourism. Here, December 17th is expected to open the Nis Clinical Center, which will finally be completed now during this government. New jobs are opening up in the White Palanca. As far as agriculture is concerned, it invests in agriculture. Here, cooperative is a very important topic where we in southeast Serbia have received the most funds to open new cooperatives, to work in agriculture. So I think that this government is doing what needs to be done with regard to balanced regional development and investment in everything worth doing in southeast Serbia. Otherwise, the Gondola on the Old Mountain is done. Here, in the course of this week there will be an opening of the winter center and it moves with a large number of guests already coming to the Old Mountain. I would invite all my colleagues to come to the Old Mountain to go through Srlig and see how the government of the Republic of Serbia invests in these small municipalities, undeveloped municipalities. I expect that in the next period these municipalities will be developed municipalities. We are not against investing in Belgrade, but we are in favour of continuing to invest in southeastern Serbia to invest in highways towards Sofia, according to Greece, to invest in all that is worth in southeast Serbia. Once again, I also support the amendment, and I am sure that this government of ours is doing the same thing as our President, Mr. Vukic, was more than once in southeast Serbia, Srlig and Nis, but the previous prime ministers who were in time, back in the last tens of years. Once again, I call upon the government to come to the Old Mountain and see how it is invested there and how beautiful it is and how it can be enjoyed there.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27440	The word has Serbian Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27441	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I would like to support the amendment of my distinguished colleague, Milena Turk, and to express a disdain. Why are we talking about the gondola bothering us in Belgrade? Well, for God's sake, Belgrade is Serbia's capital. All that is invested in Belgrade is returning to Serbia as well. The picture of Belgrade is a picture of Serbia. Of course, the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are pushing for even development, for investment in all parts of Serbia, and we have shown this for the past four, five years. We invest in all parts of Serbia. All the things that some have robbed and devastated, ruined, we're raising it now. Of course, is that enough? We're trying to make it as much as possible. I'll tell you, Belgrade this year had 30% of tourists more than the previous year. Next year we expect an even bigger increase. The major infrastructure projects launched in Belgrade are moving all over Serbia, raising to its feet. "Belgrade on Water", the biggest project in the last 30, 40 years, which brings the capital down to rivers, helps Serbia develop, helps our construction operation, our construction companies, helps Serbia's economy, the development of Serbia as a whole. By improving the development of tourism in Belgrade, a gondola will improve and develop tourism in the Republic of Serbia. So it's not just investment this time in Belgrade, so don't look at it like that, that when something is given in Belgrade, it's taken away from Serbia. That's giving Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party gives Serbia, employs Serbia and every project we have launched in the past five years, the SNS has launched to make Serbia better, and Serbian citizens see it. Serbian citizens jump the standard, they jump pensions, they jump wages, factories open. Well, what did you open for 12 years of your authority? You weren't able to open any kiosks and you closed it to people, people couldn't open the kiosk, they couldn't even open the fast-food. In 12 years you've closed everything down in Serbia, so now one gondola is bothering to help develop tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27442	The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27443	I thank the president. Honored ministers with associates, respected fellow Members of the People and People's MPs. Namely, to Article 1. The draft law supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia, I have submitted an amendment, with a view to empowering and more efficient work and functioning, in particular the health system, with a special reference to local self-government. Since according to the current Health Protection Act, the founder of primary health care is local self-government, I will look first and foremost at how we, since I come from Kruševec, have arranged how to implement the budget regarding the Kruševec Health House. In 2012, when the SNS took over the town of Krusevec and, fortunately, Mr. Bratislav Gasic was elected mayor, we inherited a catastrophic condition. Health homes in this period, as well as Kruševac General Hospital were not even painted, let alone whether something invested in the previous period, so we really had a big problem to sort out and solve. This is not only true in my hometown of Krusevec, it has been all over Serbia, so this government has indeed been very difficult since 2012, so until today, it has been very difficult to sort out. But when responsible policy is applied and the funds are spent in the right way, and not for drinking beer, perhaps according to some local self-government, or for boasting about pastures, or I don't already know what other rituals, we are proud of the government of Mr. Alexander Vukic and our ministers and our leadership in our local self-governments. What we managed to do in Kruševec, in the previous period, is restore a lot of things, not just wet knots that we found in a really bad state. We could also provide many of the apparatus that previous “yellow authorities ” had not thought about it, and about the human resources and the good laws that we had to change, that would already be an opportunity and we would talk about it. So, in Kruševec, an ultrasound apparatus with accompanying equipment for women's health care services, then a biochemical analyst for laboratory services, sanitary ambulances, since we had nothing to transport patients, then emergency medical care monitors, ultrasound inhalers for child health care services, as well as many RS computers. What the Ministry of Health has done in the past few years for a general hospital, indeed, are the figures I'm going to talk about at some other time. Just what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing with Alexander Vukic and the local self-government I come from, the City of Kruševac, gives us hope, because our citizens with over 65% support in Krusevec's last elections have just supported the SNS candidate, and that is proof that we are on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27444	Branka Stamenkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27445	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 158(4) – each applicant of the amendment shall have the right to explain its amendment for up to two minutes. Col. Barisic said things, but she didn't talk about her amendment. I remained deprived of explaining how its amendment will contribute to the strengthening of the health system of the Republic of Serbia, by implementing the 2017 budget in December 2017. How, therefore, will the adoption of this amendment contribute to spending the 2017 budget by strengthening the health system of the Republic of Serbia, during 2017, which is 11 months and 11 days already behind us. In that sense, the Rules of Procedure have been injured, because instead of explaining the proposed solutions from its amendment, counterpart Barisic spoke about Krusevec, Aleksandr Vukic and local self-government. I therefore ask the chairman to explain why she even allowed her to break the Rules of Procedure and if she does not adopt this remark, I ask that this be voted on in the day of the vote. (Dragana Barisic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27446	There's no sign of any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Of course, no injured Rules of Procedure, but it is now a clear intention to abuse the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure, and in accordance with Article 103 of Position 8, I am subtracting two minutes, no, one minute and 56 seconds from the total time of the debate, because we are clearly going to spend the whole day devoting MPs of the right to explain their amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27447	Thank you. With this amendment, I had the intention to further highlight the importance of the development of the Republic of Serbia in the implementation of the budget, and it is still in the text. What I can conclude and I am very pleased to find is that our budget for this year is already being implemented, so that this development we have supported to the greatest extent possible and I hope that the explanation will hear to the greatest extent possible those who are essentially interested in Serbia's development and development support programmes, among other things, through certain wine subsidies and similar mechanisms. That the budget is exactly like that, says Mr. Ruff, James Ruff, head of the IMF mission in Serbia. He says, among other things, that the budget for this year is a deficit, he says, and that we are now in a situation where our public debt is falling, which is an extremely good result for the Republic of Serbia. The deficit, which is record low, was 6.5% before we entered these programs and we managed to significantly reduce it. If we're gonna talk about next year's budget, we don't mind. It should be noted that it is there five times below that level, the space allowed by good standards, for developed EU countries. Furthermore, Mr. Ruff, head of the IMF's mission, says that interest today is much lower than good evidence of the trust that exists, trust in the state of Serbia, that economic activity is growing, which is also an important prerequisite for overall development. Among other things, he also says that the share of problematic loans has been reduced, while investments have been increased. When we talk about investment, if subsidies are discussed today, it should be noted that there were problematic subsidies in the Republic of Serbia. The most problematic in numbers can be found at the pre-election time in 2012. So, it's those who worry most today about the issue of abuse in the pre-election era that they've been doing without doubt, among other things, through those famous transfers to their own party, I mean the "yellow company". It was a time that was completely different from today, when Serbia successfully modernised, when it was no longer DOS-Palanka, a private handful of yellow interests, as some have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27448	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27449	I thank the chairman, the honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, immediately to invite these filmmakers to listen carefully to my amendment so that they don't later resent that I haven't spoken in accordance with the amendment. As can be seen from the reasons for the amendment, therefore, the amendment to Article 1. The draft law supplementing the 2017 Budget Law, I proposed adding a new position, so item 3, which reads: "The implementation of the Republic of Serbia's 2017 budget, is realised to the greatest extent possible to be in the function of modernising the Republic of Serbia." The objective of this amendment is set out in the explanation, I have no doubt that it was also read: "to further encourage and support the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia by means of a legal solution". I really don't think I should particularly explain how important modernisation is for Serbia. When I say modernisation, I mean modernising the most diverse areas, but primarily, I mean modernising public administration, as well as strengthening the capacity of public administration in Serbia. Strengthening the capacity of the public administration is necessary in order to be able to support the growth of the productivity of the private sector, because the private sector should be the one, or the private sector, which should be the main driving force for economic growth and development in Serbia. That should be our goal, or that should be our intensity. Modernisation of public administration is, among other things, necessary for another important reason, which is that the state would truly become a service of citizens, which it should be. I don't have to mention that it is one of the SNS' goals, and that it is one of the goals declared in Prime Minister Ana Brnabic's exposé. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27450	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Do you want a word? (Yes) The word has a people's sent by Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27451	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as my distinguished colleague Orlic said, we are discussing budget rebalancing for 2017. So the budget that is already being implemented and the intensity of my amendment is that the implementation of the 2017 budget is achieved so that it is to the greatest extent possible in the role of strengthening the defence system in the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic, as commander-in-chief of our armed forces, has already done much to modernise and strengthen Serbia's military. Remember when, at the end of last year, then Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic agreed personally with Russian Federation President Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin that Serbia would practically get a six-minute gift, 30 armored vehicles and 30 tanks, then some in Serbia laughed and said it was some old buckets that were worth nothing. As you have seen this year, these old buckets have arrived in Serbia, and they will defend the Serbian sky. The SNS parliamentary group absolutely supports the idea of the president of the Republic and the Government of Serbia to move into one mass state-owned housing, to build cheap apartments for members of Serbian armed and security forces, so above all for members of the military, police and BIA, for all those working in those institutions, who have so far failed to resolve their housing issue. We also support that the mass state housing will be realised, not only in the city of Belgrade, but also in other major cities of Serbia, in Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac and Kragujevci. In this regard, I am convinced that with this policy of support for the Serbian military, police, BIA, as it happened in 2017, you will continue in the following year.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27452	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27453	I would like to thank the President, honourable members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you have seen from the amendments, and I have proposed to add the new position of Article 1 of this Bill, which is set before us today in the debate in particular, and this Bill on the Completion of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017, and the amendment reads: "The implementation of the Republic of Serbia's 2017 budget is implemented in such a way as to improve to the greatest extent possible the financial basis for the judicial system in the Republic of Serbia." Of course, the aim of the amendment is to encourage and develop the justice system in the Republic of Serbia by means of a legal solution, by additional legal solution. For what reason did I submit this amendment? It is particularly important that Serbia has an independent, independent, responsible and open judiciary. The employees of the judiciary need to send a message that integrity, professional emphasis and the fight for better justice payoffs. Such a message is also sent through the draft budget law for 2018, but I felt that such a message should be sent before and at the very end of this amendment, by adopting this amendment, on the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017. Furthermore, insisting on better efficiency of the judiciary, insisting on expectations that the judicial system be stable in Serbia, insisting on expectations that the judiciary is working faster and better, will be justified, and on the other hand, the judicial system will no longer be guilty of some systemic problems such as the previous case, as it will function under different circumstances, or under better conditions. This will also ensure that the judiciary is less vulnerable to influences on the side, political pressures or manipulations. These are only the basic reasons for submitting this amendment. I must say, and in this way I will conclude that it is evident that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has already made great efforts to ensure that the judicial system in Serbia is at an envious level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27454	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27455	I would like to thank the President. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the text of my amendment reads: "The implementation of the Republic of Serbia's 2017 budget is realised to the greatest extent to support investments in the Republic of Serbia." My amendment was about to support investments in the Republic of Serbia through the proposed budget and, above all, I would like to look back on what we just heard from some of the opposition MPs calling the SNS for party employment. And through this example, I want to show you how we came to this kind of successful budget, and how they used to do it. I have in front of me a consolidated balance sheet of the state in which we have shown what was spent in the 2008 budget, so let's say, employee expenditure, so for all public sector employees, in 2008, 344 million were spent, in order to spend 356 million in 2009 to spend 363 million in 2011, 402 million in 2011 and 441 million in 2012. So 100 million more compared to 2008. What does that look like in SNS? In 2015, the Council adopted Decisions (EU) 2015/35 and (EU) 2015/35. - 419 million, so a larger reduction of 20 million compared to 2012. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/35 of 19 December 2016 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing So much for party employment. Furthermore, the party employment recordman was former Prime Minister of Vojvodina. Before 2016, the gentleman spent a billion and 658 million dinars on employees' salaries in the 2006 budget, and you know how much he spent in 2012? He spent two billion and 479 million, or 821 million dinars more, gentlemen. So much for party employment. Now let's see these budgets, to compare the budgets, I think it's good to see how we have 128 billion in our budget today for capital investments, to see how these gentlemen from the yellow company planned the budget. So, let's say in 2008, they planned a total fiscal deficit of 45 billion dinars, and you know what the fiscal deficit they achieved? They made minus 72 billion dinars. In 2009, they planned minus 49 billion dinars. Do you know how much they've accomplished? They made minus 27 billion dinars in the budget. In 2010, gentlemen planned 82 billion dinars of deficits, and they achieved a minus 141 billion deficits. In 2011, they planned a minus 93 billion, and reached 163 billion minus. In 2012, they were record recorders, planning 124 billion, and reaching 245 billion. Let's see what it looks like, gentlemen, at the time of the Serbian Progressive Party. In 2015, we planned a fiscal deficit with 191 billion, and we made 50 billion dinars a lower fiscal deficit than we planned 141 billion dinars. In 2016, we planned a deficit of 87 billion, and we achieved 54 billion, i.e. 33 billion dinars. In 2017 we planned a fiscal deficit of 69 billion dinars, we achieved a surplus of 90 billion dinars, or we're in the budget for as much as 159 billion dinars, and so today we have 128 billion for capital expenditures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27456	The People's MP Vesna Rakonjac submitted to the 1st Amendment. The word is from the People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27457	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected ministers with fellow Members of Parliament, I have submitted an amendment that reads: "The law establishes frameworks for the implementation of the 2030 UN Strategy for Sustainable Development", and I will look back in my brief presentation to the strengthening and development of human resources. The Serbian Progressive Party, as a responsible party to its citizens, found one disastrous situation in 2012 and, as far as human resources are concerned, we can say that the constitutional right for at least 400,000 workers who were in the real sector was denied. In 2012, we found such a situation and 26% unemployment that the entire state and the entire population were on the verge of existence. If we look at what the 2030 UN Strategy says, which is a complete eradication of the worst aspects of poverty and a reduction of total poverty, in 2012, the whole of Serbia was on the verge of poverty, and what does it look like in 2012 to 2017? I'm going to look too closely at the preservation of human resources in health care. From 2012 to 2017, more than 6,000 specializations were allocated to doctors, healthcare professionals, because from 2000 to 2012 no one took care of the shift of generations, so we were left without good specialists, and what little was done in the health sector went with the belly after bread, especially radiologists and anesthesiologists in EU countries. If we talk about the period in 2017, because this is practically the budget rebalance for 2017, more than 2,000 health workers were employed. That's a huge number. So, when we talk, too, about preserving human resources, as counterpart Martinovic used to say, and as far as the interior ministry is concerned, we have to make sure that if we want to have interested people, and the Serbs were always good soldiers and good police officers, they knew how to defend their country, we have to provide them with an elementary existence, first of all, to resolve their housing issue. In this way we strengthen our country, we become a serious respectable state in the Balkans, a country that will be able to provide its citizens with security, and above all to its neighbours safety and one seriousness. When we also talk about the 2030 strategy, it also talks about good health, which I was talking about, but also about food safety and environmental science. What it looked like between 2000 and 2012 and how they cleaned up all Serbia and Serbia's budget, we could see in a good case those who were convicted of their misdemeanors. I don't want to mention names so I don't cause replication. Another thing that is very important, which is the possibility of accessing economic resources. What it looked like in environmental matters when the large Clean Serbia Project was at stake. These economic resources, which were huge, could only be accessed by privileged ones, i.e. Children of individual heads of parliament groups, not for projects in ecology, but for projects of various, let's say, cultural-type content, mostly in the City of Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27458	National MP Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27459	Thank you, President. I must say, it is a pleasure for me to talk in our Parliament for the third or fourth time about the objectives of sustainable development. As you know, the UN adopted the 2030 Agenda in 2015, where Serbia is among the first to sign and we are tasked with implementing the Agenda. This assembly formed one focus group. This focus group is composed of many MPs who are interested in regulating Serbia, making it more orderly, better, living in it better, and I expect that all MPs will support what we are doing in this area. It's for us, for our future, for the future of our children. I support this amendment submitted by my colleague Dr. Vesna Rakonjac, and I have nothing to add to what she said. I think those are the goals that all MPs are fighting for, because that means better, better quality life, that means that drinking water is available to all individuals in Serbia. I want the sewers to come to every place. I'd like every place, every village to be arranged, and we can do that if we take good care of it in a timely manner. As a focus group, we were not in a position to directly participate in budget formation this year, for the simple reason that time is such that we did not have time, and be assured that next year we will really insist that the budget contains what is being realized for the objectives of sustainable development. So we will get another informal group in parliament next to the Women's Parliamentary Network and be confident that we will certainly achieve results as well as colleagues who have done so. Why? Well, there are MPs from all groups for a simple reason, because we think that's what's better. One more thing, for a wonderful miracle, we also know how to write amendments. As you can see, we also know how to read. I also want to say that we know that we write scientific papers and publish them, from America, Poland, etc. The only thing we don't know is that we're getting rich, we just don't know how to take money the way it was done. I stress this because of it, and I'm not going back to it anymore, because we're going to fight that in every place, in every building every single dinar that separates is earned fairly, and also spent honestly. In this sense, I hope that you will give us full support and I want to point out once again – the goals of sustainable development will be consistently implemented in this Serbia by 2030 as much as they give us material opportunities, and they will give us material opportunities because we spend only what we have earned, what is created in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27460	National MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27461	Thank you. A member of 106 was injured where a speaker, or speaker, because it has been going on longer, can only talk about the agenda point, about the amendment. We've been listening here for a long time to praises, analysis of past and current authorities, comparative analysis, just not hearing anything about Article 1. I don't understand at all, the Honorable Chairman, how do you allow it? You've cooked this session well, and now the minister will be punished enough to listen to all these recitations, but I ask you to keep it in some frames and stick to that member, so let those variations be within that article. They all have the right to make their amendments, but at least let them stick to the members they gave the amendments to, because this way we can sit forever. We are sitting here just to respect the illusion of democracy, the complete opposition, and not to think that Serbian citizens are one-minded, normal way of acting, because they are not. So, I ask you one more time to remind the MPs who will continue to speak to be within the point we are discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27462	I don't know if you understood the speeches on the 2030 Sustainable Development Strategy, both previous speakers. So they were talking absolutely about the amendment that was filed. I have no reason to react. Unless someone knows what the 2030 Sustainable Development Strategy is, there's nothing I can do to help, really. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27463	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment reads - Article 1 adds Article 3 and reads: "The implementation of the Republic of Serbia's 2017 budget is realised to the greatest extent to support the development of the economy in the Republic of Serbia." Thanks to the good results in 2017, conditions for increasing earnings and pensions were obtained. The fiscal surplus at the general state level in 2017 will be around 0.7% of GDP and at the level of the Republic 0.6%. After many years, we will have a situation at the same time as the overall and primary surplus. What we could hear as a grudge against our amendments, it's our right to write them, from those who in their own parties there have prefixes of democracy. Dear gentlemen, we learned to write a long time ago. We stand behind every single letter of our own. Fortunately, we'll never learn, and we don't want to sign contracts with ourselves. We learned to write a long time ago, and we never will, and we don't want to learn to write off our debts to tycoons that funded us while the state was going to break in. I want more, thanks to the results that I think this budget should be called developmental. When Aleksandar Vucic became Serbian prime minister, the employment rate in 2012 was 35.5% and the unemployment rate was 23.9%. Today the employment rate is 48.2% and the unemployment rate is 12%. When we analyze those who criticise this budget, when we look at their composition and what they're dealing with, it's clear to conclude that they didn't have time for the state. They didn't miss any vacations, they didn't miss any winters. They worked vineyards, visited their pastures, dealt with their private businesses, and then went holidays, hired other firms, private firms to do the jobs of ministries for which the ministry had jurisdiction and much more to waste their time on. Well, just that they were returning watches and setting up for the winter and summer return of time on all the watches they had, it just took them a couple of days. Dear Ministers, the 2017 budget, the achievement and the way it is fascinating. I believe that this budget stock is on its way for a better tomorrow, on its way against those who stole the country to the greatest extent possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27464	The word is Zoran Zivkovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27465	Thank you. I repeat, I am impressed by the fact that my colleagues realize how badly this government is doing and their amendments show that one of these is the amendment we heard earlier, which is that the implementation of the Republic of Serbia's 2017 budget is realised to the greatest extent possible to support the development of the economy in the Republic of Serbia. I would pray, and I think I fully agree with this amendment, I will vote for it, just ask that Minister Vujovic tells me that this will support the development of the domestic economy from, this will be adopted in the next day, until it is announced in "The Official Messenger", so it will be twenty-one December, how in the last seven days of this year will it be done to support the largest possible development of the economy in the Republic of Serbia? Here, I'm going to ask very precisely -- is this going to be done by taking a loan from some Chinese bank of nearly three billion dollars, where you can't see anywhere on what basis, who's going to spend that money, was there any tender for these works, Corridor 10, 11, the Belgrade-Budapest track, I don't know what it was? So, nearly three billion dollars we're going to spend on the future of our children, the children of all of us, all of us Serbian citizens, to owe them another three billion because someone was sitting somewhere, and they signed some kind of agreement. What doesn't have an agreement for that unfortunate channel? I guess you could have solved it in six years, where the plums would go, whether they were in Aegean or Black Sea. But this, Minister, is a very serious question -- based on which tender, based on which government decisions, in relation to which thought-out, brilliant analysis we have come to the fact that these Chinese people should come with their shovels, with their mechanization, with their decades-old experience in making rails, bridges and clay roads? Was it possible that there wasn't someone here who could have done all these jobs? Is there, isn't there, is it very simple, a tender is being called. It's a dangerous word for the current government. Tender, that means everyone can report publicly, under certain conditions set by serious criteria. It's not a hook, it's not a bar, it's not underwater, it's above water, it's a serious thing. It's a procedure like when Sinisa Mali, the one across the street, was head of Serbia's Privatisation Agency's tendering department, and the tobacco industry Nis, the tobacco industry Vranje, "Luk Oil" and many other companies, all with the signing of Sinisha Mali. That was good, and that's what it takes, because you already have that piece that knows how to do it, so use it to do something like that, not to collect stones around the Danube and Sava. Therefore, Minister, another question – will you create conditions to the greatest extent possible to improve the Serbian economy by agreeing to spend a loan of nearly three billion dollars, which is already planned for next year's budget on secret jobs that are on our behalf, but without our will and permission, some people who do not have the right to do so? It may also be the president of Serbia, and I'm sure it is, but he has the least right to do something like that, and the one before, and this and every future. It is the job of the Prime Minister, if it exists in Serbia, and it is the job of the finance minister. Thank you in advance for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27466	The word is Marijan Risticevic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27467	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, bonuses need to be shared in the way this government wants. I believe that he will not do what my fellow farmer did in an attempt, which here said that Nis was responsible for the tobacco industry no less than Sinisha Mali, and he was prime minister, and the director of the Agency was Mirko Cvetkovic, the next prime minister. He can't answer if it's Sinisha Mali, and if he did, he did it under his control and under the control of Mirko Cvetkovic, which brings us to the one Drpocrat he belonged to. He can't tell us whether it was true that during Sablje he went to the U.S., that in Virginia he had agreed, there Langley some, that he had completed the privatisation and that for the tobacco industry Nis, which he sold five times below the price, he had received a $12 million commission. Instead, he draws attention to distracting attention from the issue of the money, where he bought an apartment in the centre of Novi Sad for 500,000 euros and moved from Nis to Belgrade. It also draws attention from the following topic, that at the time he even wanted to buy a yacht and likely to move to the Virgin Islands, where he registered a famous company called Vinarija, a fellow farmer, who he registered there with the intention of investing as much money as possible not in Serbia, but invested in the Virgin White World Islands. I believe the government will not share bonuses in the way he shared apartments while he was the defence minister and I believe the government will not sell any buildings in the way he sold the Ustasha building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27468	The replica or the amendment? The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27469	Dear President, I am reporting for the amendment by Mr Janjusevic, who, in his explanation, tried to be a little poetic, but what Laza Kostic would say – every disaster ceiling. I will support this amendment of yours, but will you vote for your amendment? I will support the other amendments, and so I want to support both regional development and financial support for Serbia's health system, so I want to support our judicial system, I want to support Serbia's overall general development by voting for these amendments. But will these amendments do so if we vote them, as I cannot understand what Minister Vujovic explains the purpose of these amendments that he himself did not accept. Does that mean, Minister, that you are not in favour of regional development? You've been explaining to my colleague Turk's amendment that it's meaningful, but you didn't accept it. Does that mean you're against even regional development? Does that mean you're against financial support from the health system? Does that mean you are against a better business picture of Serbia? It doesn't mean anything, but that's how you explained all the nonsense of these amendments. I think this is actually a mockery, corroding any normal dialogue that can lead to some useful stuff. And I'm asking myself if I should give away the legitimacy of this debate?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27470	Don't say that. You know what sessions and additions to the agenda with 200 dots, mentioning both grandmothers and frogs and all. Don't say it makes sense now, and when MPs submit amendments, they're pointless and they bother someone. So we're all equal. Therefore, everything is legal and legitimate, within the framework of the Rules of Procedure. Minister Vujovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27471	Just two very brief notes. One of the reasons why we didn't accept these amendments is to propose at the end of the financial year, when there's no time to do anything on their realisation. I was talking before that about them being logically possible, and we're not accepting them because they're not celibate right now, and they're not going to lead to these results, because there's no time or resources to do it in this period. So they're allowed for us, but we disagree with them. That's one thing. Secondly, the question was asked by a colleague – what will we do by the end of the year. Well, just because we can't do anything, that's one reason why we won't accept that amendment. So that's one of the key reasons. As far as this other question is concerned, I would answer only – context. So that agreement was made in 2009 with China, and you remember that. We can specifically discuss what projects are, so the possibility is open to agreeing and agreeing projects that are not subject to standard procedures. The preference of the Ministry of Finance is that the regulation that we have adopted on the evaluation of all projects in the initial phase of their compliance with the country's strategic objectives, including international and regional aspects, the previous Implementation Study, the final Implementation Study, the evaluation of all projects and the careful monitoring of their implementation, is our approach. All that goes on beyond that, we treat as previous, the result of some previous arrangements, which we should closely monitor and move on to a new system, which will give everyone the opportunity to know from the early stage which projects are planned, how they are consistent with our objectives, at which stage we engage resources and how. I was already separately saying that we now have access to financial resources that are cheaper than we could ever get in bilateral sources.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27472	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27473	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27474	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27475	I answered, as I see that the minister has now said something different than what the government has written by refusing all amendments to the ruling party that have been given, only to prevent it from being on the agenda, or to come up with a debate on the budget. The government wrote: "Amendment is not accepted for reasons because it is not in a logical relationship with Article 16. The law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017, given that these members have established budgetary constraints on staff expenditure." So, Minister, I assume you've proposed this to the government, and the government has said that these amendments are not in a logical relationship and, of course, they're not, they're not serving anything, except that here they're not allowed to talk about the Budget Act in particular.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27476	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27477	Thank you very much. I thank the Minister for the precise and clear answers. So, as far as the amendments are concerned, the government has rejected them, as we know, and the minister has now reiterated that they are legally possible, but that they are pointless, because they are not enforceable, and that's what we were saying, what I was saying, and that's the real assessment. I call on my colleagues, since all your amendments are correct, I'm sure you need to bring down your government, but since the government is not going to, either file a motion for the government's replacement, or withdraw your amendments, because they obviously won't be accepted. You can't vote for them either. I dare you to vote in the voting day to be adopted, not to vote 20%, but to adopt these amendments. I especially appreciate the minister's response to the second question, and the Chinese arrangement. In 2009, 2010, 2012, however, it was wrong, and it should have already been fixed, as well as many other things, as you have so far fixed. Let's just say, the National Museum, and you're not yet, or I don't know what else is, and you're not yet, and that chip factory, no, you're not that yet. So, okay, you were supposed to fix that, and you know that tenders are being explored so we get to see who's offering the best offers, so let's see. It could be a Chinese loan, if it's favourable, and they're taking companies out of Svrlig, Nis, the Great Plane, pick out where else. It's also possible, and it was done once. The other part is very important. A colleague asked me to give an answer. Langley, something called "Sabbe," the tobacco industry, these, those. I also said "Lukoil" about tobacco. It's this kid from across the street. I wasn't in Langley, but some people in that service still pointed out to me that a farmer or a rabbit farmer or a rabbit farmer had taken some wheat and that a farmer and a rabbit or a rabbit and a peasant, and there a colleague now sent his wife to jail because he ate that bunny from Disneyland, a cartoon, or that farmer ate some wheat. I've harshly denied it. We know well that rabbits don't eat wheat. The wheat is eaten by rats and large cattle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27478	The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27479	Article 107, Mrs. Gojkovic. It's a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. I understand that these sad remains of what is called the opposition in Serbia are nervous because SNS lawmakers have used their right to submit amendments. I don't see why MPs so-called. The opposition was in a better position than SNS MPs. Here, you see here, people are sitting mass from the SNS parliamentary group. This shows that we care very much about the debate on the amendments and additions of the Budget Law for 2018, but I don't see much of you from so-called. The positions you're talking about that you're interested in citizens in the first place. I see him and these two ladies behind him. I don't know where all those human rights and freedoms fighters are talking about "Samaloj" about how hard it is to live in Serbia, etc. These DS guys, my God, there's not one. They care so much about the budget. They care so much about the citizens, but they don't care about the fact that SNS MPs have submitted amendments. The one who was prime minister mentions some rats, snakes. Who knows what's in his head. Looks like he got the drinks mixed up. What is essential is that how much time you have for the debate, so the SNS does not decide on it, the president of the Maya Gojkovic Assembly does not decide on it, the people decide in the elections. The fact that you've barely crossed the censorship, and in God's presidential election, some of you are not even a censor, you see it with your parties how you've worked, what your program is, what ideology, and time is divided by how much you won the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27480	Thank you, MP. Time. (Inemnja Sarovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Minister Vujovic would like to respond? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27481	Did I get my word? Did I or didn't I? I just wanted to say that the example I set was a very specific example. We have ten examples here, I have commented on an example that speaks of original development. I said it is not illogical to say – bonuses and rewards yes and regional development. And that means people working on regional development projects such as water supply projects, such as these border projects, such as people working in state services at the border, etc. will have a special advantage. It's possible as a logical relationship, why not? But when our colleagues say they are not in a logical relationship, they talk about the content of Articles 16 and other criteria relating to completely other members and the Budget Law and the Budgetary System Act and the Budget Act in particular 2017. So this is a logical relationship, and I say it's not illogical to say that bonuses can be given in the light of specific aspects of regional development. I don't know, I actually like to practice here in rhetoric, but it wasn't my intention to deny what we said, whether members in a logical relationship or if it's possible to focus logical rewards on that area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27482	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27483	Mrs Gojkovic, several members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured, so I will list all of them and explain how. A member of 107 who says the speaker at the session must respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Aleksandar Martinovic said here, you did not interrupt him, you did not warn him, that there are sad remains of what is called the opposition in Serbia. In this way, you show that you do not respect us, but that you do not respect the citizens of Serbia who chose the MPs sitting here. If something is sad, then it can't be an opposition, because it's not even responsible for the state of affairs. It's power. The second thing, you violated Article 104 and 158 of Section 7 by giving Minister Vujovic the right to replication. He's neither right nor right. Mr. Djurisic quoted the government's argument given by the government as saying why it did not accept amendments submitted by MPs to the ruling coalition. Quoting. He didn't insult anyone. He didn't mention anyone by name. He didn't misread any exposure. So there was no basis for that. Third thing, you violated a 103 member who said you were obliged to give me the word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker, which was Aleksandar Martinovic. Instead of doing so, you have again in an undemocratic and illicit manner favored the minister and given him the opportunity to speak before the MPs. Please learn once that MPs have priority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We're older here. They're civil servants.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27484	Thank you. Thanks for the lesson. You are not right in any case, but thank you for listing so many members, that for a time there will be no breach of the Rules of Procedure by the same members, and as you know, the subsequent application of the Rules of Procedure applies to all participants in the debate, and the right to replica has a Minister Vujovic in accordance with Article 104(3). (Inemnja Sarovic: I want the Assembly to declare all three remarks. ) By doing so, any lawyer or anyone who can interpret the Rules of Procedure knows that legal norms are not interpreted as two letters here, three here, but as a Rules of Procedure in general. We'll vote anyway. It's your right. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27485	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Art. 107th and 109th. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, concerning the speech of a fellow farmer, who by no means knows which path he tried to impute and accuse me unfoundedly. With this in mind, Mr. Knezevic is here, it would be good to make a statement about the stock reserves, on whose request was the control carried out and what was found in 2013? So I don't have any secrets. On the contrary, anyone can look at this, even a fellow farmer in an attempt. It says here that as a natural person and a representative of a legal person, I had no business with the Republic of the Stock Reserve Directorate. I haven't made any revenue. I've never asked for favors or phone calls. Now, what else should I do to prevent someone from hurting dignity in this way, and, behold, Mr. Knezevic knows, on my request in 2013, which he did along with Mr. Ljajic, the rest of the 80,000 tonnes was found. Mr. Knezevic, is there something wrong with me and says that they found it all in silos that were registered to the assistant minister of Dobrivoj Sudjum, the one who had a business relationship with my colleague, the farmer, who gave him a 525 thousand-euro premium. So when word gets out about rats that we know those rats were yellow.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27486	He was a member of 107. Article 109 doesn't apply to what you said, and I think we should cut to the chase with the fables. (Marko Djurisic: Replication of Mr Martinovic.) ) Marko Djurisic according to the Rules of Procedure. What replica? Article 104(4) speaks otherwise. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27487	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable ministers, honourable fellow Members and MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1. The draft law supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017, which adds item 3 – the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017, is realised to the greatest extent possible to improve the position of the most vulnerable social groups in the Republic of Serbia. The explanation – the aim of this amendment is to achieve a clear formulation and definition of the objectives in order to promote full inclusion in all social life flows of the most vulnerable social groups in the Republic of Serbia. What I must first point out is that the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and this bill is based on the non-economy of knowledge, unlike those that have brought budgets to the economy of ignorance, i.e. on the economy of transgender, france. This budget of the Republic of Serbia was brought to the knowledge economy. Also, I wanted to point out that economic policy and social policy are in direct causal connection. What does that mean? This means that the economy of a country is the base of a state. If we see the state as one house, then the economy is the foundation of that house, and social policy is a roof, that is, an upgrade. That is why, the most economically developed countries of Western Europe, and we are a country on the path of European integration, have, apart from economic policy and the most developed social policy and all those measures that the state takes from the aspect of social protection functions, to work at the end, to fulfil the Constitution of guaranteed social justice rights for every citizen. As social life included those who ruled until 2012, it is best seen in the reconstruction of the "Hatterland" Castle and the theft of 157 million state money, Bojan Pajtic, from children distracted in development. This castle, “Hetherland, ” and its reconstruction, were about to serve children who had developmental difficulties and who, due to these difficulties, had to improve their position through various activities in the castle. What did it come to? There's been a steal of state money. There was a robbery of money from children, persons with disabilities, children distracted and children with developmental difficulties. What's in all this robbery? Robbery is that all the money was transferred to the account of the contractors, which is the Guardi firm, mostly in advance, and then, behold, wonders, before the start of the 2012 elections, when the SNS won, they also paid the rest of this money to this company. What's the situation? The situation is this, if citizens can see, this for the sake of Serbian citizens, I show that this castle "Hetherland" is still without roof, without windows, without doors, has grown into weeds, and does not, of course, serve its primary purpose, and this is the full inclusion of children with disabilities and other children with developmental difficulties in social life. What has the government of Alexander Vukic done since 2014? First of all, I must say that the President of the Republic, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, was the patron of the December 3rd event at the Palace of Serbia on the occasion of the International Day of Persons with Disabilities. Then, I must say, to improve the position of persons with disabilities during his term of office from the IPA funds is set at 3.5m euros to remove all architectural barriers that represent difficulties in the movement of persons with disabilities. I will certainly continue, because the issue of social inclusion and everything done by the government of Alexander Vukic and this government that continues this continuity, and as regards persons with disabilities, also deserves attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27488	Ambassador Djurisic, are you after the amendment or are you in the system by chance? Okay, yeah. [[Marko Djurisic: I asked for a replica of Mr Martinovic's exposure.]] In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, everything's fine. The first amendment was submitted by Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27489	Dear Presidents, respected ministers with their associates, respected fellow MPs, therefore, this member of the law on which the amendment was submitted is governed by income and income from one side and expenditures and expenditures in the Republic of Serbia's budget, on the other. The amendment I have submitted – the implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget is realised to the greatest extent possible to improve the efficiency of local self-government in the Republic of Serbia. Its goal is indeed to further boost the efficiency of local self-government and control. Why do I find this very important? Because the fact that a large number of local self-government is left with a huge dubiosis. Large debts were left during the former regime's rule-making period. What is sad is that these debts to this day were not even possible in some local self - administrations at all. By doing so, not only is the liquidity of local self-government threatened, but the budget of the Republic of Serbia itself is in direct danger. It is therefore important to strictly monitor the implementation of the budget, the extent of the borrowing for the needs of deficit financing and concrete projects and guaranteeing. It is necessary to monitor and control the management of public debt, the use of donations, project loans, the use of revenue, too, from the sale of goods and services by budgetary users and the rights and obligations of beneficiaries of budgetary resources. As a bad example where local self-government is not controlled is an example of the Municipality of Prokuplje, where the total debt of local self-government and its public enterprises and institutions is, by all accounts, with a cut in 2012, over two and a half billion dinars. Javashake, systematic money sucking and haughtiness, was then a staunch practice. What's catastrophic is that, I'll remind you, the budget of the Municipality of Prokuplje is one billion and 100 million dinars, and I'm saying this first of all to understand the situation of this disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27490	By amendment, please, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27491	Ladies and gentlemen, I must really agree that the amendment that has been submitted is extraordinary. In this article of the bill, believe it or not, MPs of the ruling coalition have submitted as much as 20 amendments. It is in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism a unique case, that 20 amendments are submitted to one member of the ruling coalition, and to laws that are on the agenda, hundreds and hundreds, somewhere more than 500-600 amendments. This shows really interesting relations in the ruling coalition. You of the ruling coalition, which you support, are proposing to the government to improve the efficiency of local self-government. The government doesn't accept. You propose to improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia, the government does not accept, to improve macroeconomic stability, the government does not accept again. So you propose to improve the position of the most vulnerable social groups, the government does not accept, to support the development of the economy in Serbia, and the government does not accept that either. So you are asking for investment support, the government does not accept that the defence system in the Republic of Serbia is strengthened, the government does not accept that neither does it. To support the development of the Republic of Serbia, the government does not accept it again. To strengthen the health system, the government does not accept. So you're asking for the development of infrastructure to be improved, and the government of the Republic of Serbia doesn't accept it either. You seek even regional development, the government of the Republic of Serbia does not accept. The fight against crime and corruption, an excellent amendment, but the government of the Republic of Serbia does not accept. The efficiency of the financial institution, neither does the government of the Republic of Serbia accept and a whole series of other amendments. Listening to this debate, I felt a little uncomfortable about the fact that the finance minister and the other ministers sitting there did not favour any member of the ruling coalition to answer you in any way. The ministers only respond to opposition representatives, which shows that at least a little respect for us, but when the amendments are spoken of by representatives of the ruling coalition, there is no answer. Minister Vujovic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia combined the answer in two words, they say -- nothing to do with these amendments. I'll quote their answer, he says - amendments are not accepted for reasons they are not logically related to Article 16. Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017. In two words, no connection. So, you suggest, the government doesn't accept, you submit 20 amendments to one member of the law, hundreds and hundreds of amendments to all these laws. The question now arises, if you are not respected by the Government and the Ministers, how can you vote for them? If you submit amendments that are good, this would be an opposition, who normally won't improve efficiency, the fight against corruption and crime, health care, education and everything else. But that's not what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is going to do, not accept. Plus he says you've completely missed out on the subject and that there's no logical connection to what you're proposing has to do with that member of the law you've submitted to the amendments. Therefore, our people say -- it does not snow to cover the hill, it needs to be seen what relations there are in the ruling coalition, it needs to be seen how many ministers do not respect you, they will not answer your remarks. I don't think most of the ministers listen to you, but it should all be public. You continue to endure the amendments, it is good to endure them, to point out how bad the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing, but also to have Serbian citizens see how many ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, what you think, not interested.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27492	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27493	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as soon as Nece Konstantinovic is gone, the Democratic Party's on-call lawyer and former regime will come forward to say something about these amendments. So all amendments by the SNS parliamentary group are absolutely compatible with the government policy of the Republic of Serbia, which was led in 2017. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia in 2017 and how it took care of the development of local self-government and worked to strengthen the defence system, so these moments that you call cants have arrived. The fight against crime and corruption is being fought, some of your senior officials have been convicted, some former ministers have been convicted, some former DS MPs have been convicted, and the government has taken care of the development of a health system in the Republic of Serbia, the Clinical Centre in Nis will be a major opening on December 17th. The most modern medical equipment has been obtained, and the SNS parliamentary group has only wanted to stress the importance of taking care of all these topics that are vital to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in 2018. Will the National Assembly vote to vote these amendments, we'll see about that. The National Assembly, therefore, is the one who makes laws and decides whether amendments will be adopted or not. I want to thank you, Mr Vujovic, for patiently listening to the amendments submitted by the SNS parliamentary group. I want to thank you for being one of the most important ministers in the Serbian government, as the finance minister who supported everything the SNS MPs advocated, and this is also the development of local self-government and the fight against crime and corruption, and the strengthening of the defence and judicial system and all other state systems in our country. Just to tell you something, Mr. Vujovici, since those in this sad opposition don't know it, you are not a guest in the National Assembly, this is not a glory, this is a session of the National Assembly and you are a participant in the debate at the National Assembly session, as defined by the Rules of Procedure. One more thing to tell you, this DS attorney doesn't know, you're the minister. You're not a civil servant. State officials are ministerial assistants, and you are Minister, you are elected by the National Assembly and you have full support for what you do and as you have had a lot of success in 2017, I wish you a lot of success in 2018.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27494	The word has a minister, Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27495	So let me get this straight. First, I thank Mr. Martinovic. There is absolutely no difference in content, in messages, in intentions. It's about a logical relationship with Article 16, not with other programming documents, only with Article 16. Look at the original text of Article 16, he speaks of that, referring to "the Official Messenger", in the financial year 2017, will not account for the payment of Christmas, annual and other types of prizes. We limit ourselves. Secondly, this year cannot be paid to employees and beneficiaries of budgets or bonuses according to international criteria, which represent non-standard, non-transparent forms of reward. Then, we add a change that says – especially from what it says in paragraphs 1 and 2 – it allows rewards and bonuses to be paid to employees of budget funds, based on the government's decision. So the legal nuance here is that individual, decentralised decisions previously made at the level of the ministry and units of local self-government will not be allowed, but are allowed when the government does so, because it has to be justified and must be within the available budget, within the means provided for as total expenditure on employees. This is a significant difference from previous fiscal years. There's no discrepancies. Please don't make anything. I just wanted to add, I'm not a clerk, I'm a chosen person. This assembly has chosen me, I have signed here after this counter for the third time, in this assembly, that I am the elected minister in this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27496	The word is made by MP Goran Ciric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27497	We heard that a colleague of the previous speaker called his portfolio DS. Of course not, and of course it will never be, because DS has its MPs and talks about their views in a clear way. It is very important to talk about sound logic and basic logic. I think it's an important question addressed to Mr. Minister, because you, Mr. Minister, should expect answers to all these amendments that we hear today. I'm talking about amendments to the 2017 budget. Here, the law cannot be passed until December 15th. It remains 15 days in this year for the implementation of all these major objectives proposed, from the sustainability of the Republic of Serbia, from improving education, improving health care, improving local self-government. So help us decide whether or not we will support the proposed amendments. I think it's important that you express your position on each individual amendment proposal, in order to make it easier to decide. Otherwise, we heard about this topic of health improvement, through the construction of the Clinical Centre in Nis, an important project and how everyone in Nis and southern Serbia is certainly looking forward to the whole of Serbia. But I also think that there are important topics in which and with which efficiency the whole project has been implemented. We heard the accusations and the former minister, in fact the current health minister, who accused the project of doing non-transparent things, and that he would deal with such a way of doing it. Also, I think the important question, before the announced opening of the Clinical Centre in Nis, is this facility going to have a valid permit, because the use of permission should guarantee the safety and employment of those doctors and nurses who move into that building, of course, the patients? Will all the equipment that's been purchased be operational? Will it be installed on time? Is this another opening that will be made for the public, and before obtaining a useful permit for the project? So these are amendments that insist on greater efficiency in the work of the government and individual institutions. This is just one topic, but I'm asking Mr. Minister to give us answers to these amendments, so we know how to decide when we vote on them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27498	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'd like to inform you that we'll be working after 18 hours today. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27499	Mrs Gojkovic, several members of the Rules of Procedure have been re-injured, and above all members of 107 who say the speaker at the session must and should respect the dignity of the National Assembly. You heard for a moment that Mr. Martinovic spoke to me, mentioned my name and humiliated me by saying that in his debate I had performed as a lawyer of the DS. I am the deputy president of the SRS parliamentary group, and in no way did I mention DS, I did not represent their views. If you noticed, they claimed that representatives of the ruling coalition should not submit so many amendments. I commended them and said it was nice and good that they noticed that the government was not doing well and that it should work better. So, I could in no way be brought into contact with the DS, nor be characterized in a political sense as a lawyer of the DS. If it were in real life, therefore, if it weren't in the congregation debate, it wouldn't be offensive, everyone as a lawyer can represent anyone, but in a congregation debate it's offensive. He addressed me directly, which was also prohibited in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, he had no right to do so, and thus he was injured by a member of the 104th who said – if the MP in his presentation at the National Assembly held an offensive statement about a MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, etc., incorrectly interprets his presentation, which is obvious that Mr Martinovic misread my own, the MP to whom the presentation relates has the right to replication. I was looking for a replica, and you made it possible for me to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27500	Thank you very much. Let me tell you right now that your parliamentary group has authorized Zoran Krasic to discuss the amendments, and that you are someone's deputy, the head of the parliamentary group, in this part of the session is not some important... (I Nemanja Sarovic: I have reported to the Rules of Procedure...) ) Let me answer without you yelling at me and obstructing my attitudes. So that part of your exposure doesn't stand. Members of 106 and 107, it has already been remembered by every Serbian citizen, that all MPs, when they do not know what to say, say 106 and 107. I didn't hurt either member of 106th or 107th on any basis, and I disagree with your part of the explanation. And as for a member who gives the right to a replica, you know very well, that the chairman, not the one who seeks the replica, no matter how persistent, loud, etc. So that doesn't even stand, otherwise this place would be completely unthinkable. It would look like a turner at a train station or at an airport who would just read something in front of him and not run a session. Do you want us to vote on the injuries you've suffered? Nemanja Sarovic: Yes. Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP Ljiljana Malušić. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: A Rules of Procedure! Same injury? Here, I'll give it to you right after Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27501	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment reads: "The implementation of the Republic of Serbia's 2017 budget is realised to the greatest extent possible to improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia." The amendment aims to strengthen and improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia through a legal solution. There are experts sitting in this government right now. An expert in education means being at the top of education. Here sits Mr. Vujovic who worked at the World Bank, an expert. That's what education is for. Experts are supposed to run this country, and thank God, from a few years ago and water. As far as my amendment is concerned, establishing an education system is the first and most important goal that young people need to learn to work and, above all, to think. How important education is, is also recognised as the highest priority, shows the 2018 budget. For the first time, 21 billion funds or dinars have been allocated to education in the budget, and the total figure is 197 billion dinars. Why? Because there's going to be pay hikes. That's how we do it. And you? We build schools, kindergartens, renovate schools, renovate kindergartens, don't you? Instead of building a famous home in Vienna for children distracted by the development of Heterland, it left only a board. Well, do you think all citizens, educated and uneducated, think that board is worth a million and a half euros? It's a shame. We write amendments and are very constructive, because it is difficult to criticise experts, and each of your amendments seems to - is deleted. It's called one-mindedness, not what we do. Then, education should foster innovation, critical opinion, not malfeasance. We'll make sure that something like this never happens again. Thank you for your attention. I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27502	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27503	Mrs. Gojkovic, it is not declassified that now, after a colleague, we are talking about the injury of Article 38. I am speaking to you and I ask you that in the future, as someone who has so much experience both in that place and as a national MP, warn Alexander Martinovic and anyone who uses the term, and so on in the package, the remains of some, as he said, unfortunate opposition. Because Article 38 speaks of MP groups in the National Assembly. The whole situation took place around Nemanje Sarovic and the SRS parliamentary group. That's how every one of us signs. Under my name stands well – SRS. Because if we hadn't left the rest of those who robbed Serbia, those who delivered the Serbs to The Hague, those who had committed robbery privatisation, left hundreds of thousands of people out of work, such as the remains of the DS regime and all its satellites, the fact that we and this session prepared ourselves very professionally, seriously and submitted a number of amendments, several hundred. Unfortunately, neither will Mr. Minister, and you, too, Mrs. Gojkovic, will have the opportunity to hear our arguments, because just the SNS MPs, not to convince Mr. Vujovic, have done it, but to carry out the obstruction without hearing the SRS voice.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27504	There's nothing in Article 38.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27505	So Article 38 gives us the right to be the opposition, but the only opposition and the parliamentary group speak and point to what is wrong with the work and the chairman and, above all, the ruling majority. So, I ask that every time you warn Martinovic and anyone who dares to bind Serbian radicals with someone there, make clear who we are and who they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27506	Thank you very much. Where would that take me if I kept warning the messengers to speak nicely of each other? But a member of the 38th does not give the right to a single parliamentary group to participate in the work. The MP group participates in the work of the National Assembly in a manner established by law and this Rules of Procedure, and you have denied the right of the SNS parliamentary group to participate in the work, in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure, and to submit amendments. If you wish, we'll vote on Article 38's injury. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: He does not have to. Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been made by the People's MP Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27507	I am sorry that the SNS, fearing the DS amendment that we want to improve the lives of Serbian citizens working in the military and police, in health care, in education, should not have allowed us to talk about these amendments and have submitted false 300 amendments in order to run out of time. But, well, that's your policy and the citizens of Serbia will condemn it. We have suggested that this member be deleted for exactly the reasons that the previous SNS speaker spoke for. Well, dear advances, you've been in power for six years, you've been ruining everything that's good in Serbia. Why don't you arrest all the thieves in this country? Why didn't you arrest everyone who did something wrong? The Democratic Party stands for it first. These stories of yours, due to the lack of programmes, plans, results and better lives of citizens, by putting on false crime and false corruption, you can no longer sell to the citizens of Serbia and you will see this on December 24th in this election. You've been in power for six years, arrest everyone who's done anything. It's in the interest of the state. So here you reject the amendment of your MP who speaks of crime and corruption, refusing to amend your MP who wants a better education. For what? Because we know what you do and what your intentions are. The intentions are full of your pockets and empty pockets of Serbian citizens. So you're free to arrest all the citizens who did something outside the law. First, start from the politicians, of course, and pass the law that we also propose from the DS to see who is what, when and how much you gain. First, let's start with Minister Vulin who has an apartment of 250,000 euros, and we can go from me living in my grandfather's house in the village of Glibovac, which I am very proud of and everyone knows. It can be checked, who lives where, who has what of the property, and we can do everything beautifully transparently. I'm proud of my honesty and the honesty of all the DS people sitting here, and we'll see about your honesty when you're out of power.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27508	So we can talk a little bit more, we don't have to talk about the amendments. The word is Alexandra Tomic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27509	Thank you, Chairman. Here we go from the previous speaker. Who about what, the previous talker about honesty. It's about Grandpa's house, and it's actually against an amendment that talks about improving education. So you don't need education, but it's good to be a member of a party that makes a hole in the local self-government budget of four billion dinars. It is not good to be economically viable, sustainable, developed budget, but to have a budget to pay local self-government workers through a football club or through a cafe or through public enterprises already in charge. So these are models that should be run by local self-government, and this is how Serbia's budget should be managed, with an economic growth of 3.5%, that's not good. Well, Serbian citizens know where growth is, where prosperity is, where their children can expect a safe future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27510	The word is Gjorge Komlenski, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27511	Thank you, Chairman. I will only read to you the answer of the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office to Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic's question of 12 October 2017. In the second paragraph, he says, "In front of the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Smederev, there is a pre-criminal procedure relating to reported abuses in the purchase and sale of land and facilities of former JNA House in Smederjevska Palanca, in order to determine the existence of elements of criminal acts for which prosecution is committed under official duty." Then we can really understand the rebels in an attempt to be in prison for that reason, not as a criminal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27512	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27513	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law supplementing the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2017 budget is essentially talking about macroeconomic stability and my amendment is about that. When for too long, for three years now, and for Serbian conditions an incredibly long period of time, you have no significant changes in the Budget Law, this law that we are voting today, in fact, cannot exactly be called the budget rebalancing law, because we in the economic classification budget are not changing any economic figures. So we have a fundamentally accurate, realistic and planned budget that we've been planning for the third year. On that basis, we have come to a situation where we can change some things, above all, that give us the opportunity to function more easily and better. First of all, it refers to the growth of the social gross product, because when we grow the social gross product by 2%, then in accordance with the Budgetary System Act, Article 27e, we get into a situation so that we can increase the amount related to employee expenditure and that amounts to 8% in that economic classification. So, when you have the growth of a social gross product that creates enough trunk for you to go to pay and raise the expenditure on employees, i.e. the payment of bonuses, and at the same time in the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is a rare case for 2017, you have a deficit, or you don't have it, you have a surplus of 76 billion, and at the level of the general state of 90 billion, then it creates the possibility that after a successful macroeconomic policy that you are implementing benefits so that in some way you reward both Serbian citizens and employees in the public sector, because they are all there to make Serbia work better and when they pay taxes, and when they make revenues, they are unity with the macroeconomic and fiscal order of the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27514	Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27515	Thank you, Chairman. If I exceed my time as a proposing, I ask you to take away my time from the MP's group. Given that nine MPs from different political parties have submitted a number of amendments concerning the objectives of sustainable development, I would like to explain a little bit, because of the other MPs, what these amendments intended. They refer, of course, to a set of laws, the first three are an integral part of this package that talks about Serbia's budget. First of all, the objectives of sustainable development have become mandatory Agenda 2030, i.e. the continuation of the Agenda which Serbia, of course, continues through European integration, etc. The EU programme 2016-2020, and this trail is the 2030 Agenda, which, based on the ratification of the Paris Agreement here in the Serbian Parliament, we have committed ourselves to implement. The government of the Republic of Serbia has tasked the Minister of Demography, Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, to co-ordinator for this programme and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has forwarded the initiative to the Serbian Parliament where Mrs. Maja Gojkovic launched an initiative to form a Focus Group of MPs to deal with the overall parliamentary part of the job, when it comes to implementing the goals of sustainable development. We, based on the co-operation of the UNDP and the parliament of Serbia, had the opportunity to hear the entire programme and what parliamentary co-operation means in this part. One of the whole of this programme of parliamentary co-operation and the work of the Focus Group in the future, which is expected of us parliamentarians, is also part of how to finance the implementation of these objectives. When we talk about a way of funding, that part usually relates to all the laws relating to the budget and budget rebalances. Why? Because the 17 objectives of the 2030 Agenda contain 169 sub-targets. These basic targets are grouped into five parts. One is the reduction of poverty, education, culture, part of economic growth that directly affects the first seven objectives, then human resources, or the possibility of the population to implement and accept these objectives, the third is the application of high standards of environmental protection in order to preserve human health and the launch of a completely new vision of the green economy and the part relating to institutions, protection of human rights and international co-operation. The fifth part that is related exclusively to Serbia, and for developed countries is not, because they have already been through a lot, is the process of European integration. Based on the process of European integration itself, we have already started much. So all public policies relating to sustainable development are adopted, but the part relating to the budget itself, for example, to budget allocation, and even in this part when we talk about rebalancing, means, bonuses and rewards, should contain certain standards relating to sustainable development. When we talk about economic growth, it is obvious that this group of sustainable development goals shows that we have been an active policy of economic reforms and fiscal consolidation in the past four years, especially these last three, had great strength and the possibility that what was a budgetary problem, which is a big hole in the 2014 budget of 250 billion based on loans that were withdrawn or irresponsible policies that had the opportunity to lead those who dispute this kind of amendment, we now have economic growth planned for the next year even to 3.5%. When we talk about human resources, it is very important that the increase in wages and pensions and certain bonuses be in line with the possibilities, and that part that relates to such an amendment should stand essentially in each proposal and rebalancing and the budget itself. Therefore, and here is our intention to simply remind by standing up for such an amendment to the law that these standards must exist. When we talk about institutions in general and the environment, and it should be said that for the first time this government has a separate Ministry of Environmental Protection, which planned 5.8 billion dinars to solve problems when we talk about waste management and when we're talking about environmental protection in general, it's 2.7 billion dinars are subsidies. This means that recycling companies dealing with this area will have the opportunity to continue to be supported by the state and that by 2020, when we finish or when we open and close Chapter 27, we create conditions that are simply what the EU obligations are, we do not export waste anymore. This is why today, when we are talking about European integration at all, it should be said that this budget is very important for this year in its rebalancing to contain these objectives, but for the next year my colleagues will also defend in a certain way this amendment in this proposal, why public policies related to the objectives of sustainable development should exist. That's our way for the next 10 years, that's our way to the future, that's something we need to pursue. It's a one-time stand in which Serbia needs to deal side by side with EU members as well, but to God both with UN members. It is not an amendment to be disqualified in a certain way because UN programmes are now supported by the government of Serbia and on October 24th was the UN day when Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic, along with UNDP co-ordinator, had the opportunity to give their exposure to what the road would look like for the next 10 years. It is simply then said that we need to find a way to establish financial mechanisms with which we will simply implement these objectives. Last year 63 million dollars were given, so for these purposes. They are mainly according to UN instructions spent on the migrant crisis, for the resolution, meaning problems with migrants, for the resolution of the part relating to the elemental disasters, the management of emergency situations, for this year, $173m is foreseen. It is certain that these funds will also be planned for next year according to certain instructions, but do not forget that during the time of those who are now disowning these initiatives, $230 million has been spent, and there simply has been no report and no future in terms of future public policies that should have been implemented, because that is how we would not have had a problem with the economic downturn of 3.6% and the huge debt created in terms of sustainable development at all. Thus, sustainable development implies sustainable financing. As much as she's earning, you have to spend it. For the first time, we're going to have a surplus, which means extra income compared to expenditure. The fact that we have to pay off some of the debts from the past is a history that tells us that in the future we need to choose those who will represent us and who will represent the interests of Serbian citizens. Although these amendments have not been adopted, we have been as the Women's Parliamentary Network for three years fighting for gender-responsible budgeting, to set an example of gender equality into the Budgetary System Act. It was a very difficult trip. Let me tell you, first of all, from the colleagues themselves who disagreed with such proposals, to the fact that they supported us, that two-thirds of the parliament voted in favour of this proposal. If you as a minister were the first to accept such amendments to the Women's Parliamentary Network and simply made such progress in the EU report on Serbia itself, which showed that such initiatives, which may be too advanced at some point, we must start talking about them. We have to propose. It may not be time for them to adopt, and maybe the way we propose is not good enough, but one of the topics that we want to talk about and open here in the Serbian Parliament and there are MPs who are members of that Focus Group, so from four different political parties, they want to talk. What we talked about, and my colleagues, anyone who wants to advance in their part of the Serbian budget, is not something that you disagree with, but simply the way it is conceived, it may not be acceptable for the budget to rebalance itself. I therefore believe that we should really talk seriously about such amendments, to open a debate in which we will make a quality contribution to Serbia's future economic development, regardless of which political parties it comes from. I think those who are the strongest critics on these amendments will tomorrow be proud of it and proud of these proposals that have begun, right here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27516	Thank you, colleague, Tomic. The word has a folk letter from Stefan Miladanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27517	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, respected ministers in the government, but I will address Minister Vujovic too well as I, as one of the applicants of this amendment. My colleague, Aleksandra Tomic, has indeed highlighted the importance of sustainable development and agenda 20, 30 of the UN. When it comes to our country, we have clearly set ourselves up towards the implementation of these objectives, of course, and by forming an inter-resor group at government level, but certainly we as parliamentarians, by forming a Focus Group to control the implementation of these precisely these sustainable development objectives. What I think is important to point out is that the country's determination to implement the Sustainable Development Goals is extremely important and that it should find its place in the 2018 budget, it is true and I am glad that colleague Tomic mentioned our struggles here in parliament when it comes to implementing the gender-responsible budgeting in the budget process in the Republic of Serbia. Regardless of what one of the 17 amendments is, I sincerely hope that if not this year, then in the 2019 budget, we will have these very objectives as part of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27518	Thank you, colleague Miladanovic. The word has a folk MP, Sonja Pavlovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27519	Thank you. I thank my colleague Tomic. Finally, on one of these twenty amendments, I was able to find causolity with this first member of the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017. So, sustainable development, which is the objective of sustainable development, has something to do with this member. So, sustainable development and continuity, rewarding the appropriate party staff employed by the beneficiaries of budget funds. So that's what you've been doing for a very long time, and now you've been able to fit into sustainable development, only sustainable development means the following. How much to take from the citizens of Serbia, in this case, without violating their standard of living to give to employees in budgetary institutions, so that they can make more successful qualitative changes in Serbia. That's what I don't see here. Mr. Vujovicu, you said today that you signed the oath here, we all signed it. Part of the oath, among other things, is that you will serve the citizens of Serbia, the truth and justice according to your best knowledge and skills. I hope we all remember that here. I really think, without any cynicism, that you can really do it much better than the bill's proposal, which I really think is somewhere, somewhere even embarrassing, and that you should use the best knowledge and skill for the citizens of Serbia, but I don't think that's the case here, and I'm sorry about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27520	Thank you, colleague Pavlovic. Do you want Mr. Nikolic, by amendment? Here you go. All right. Thank you for the 2nd amendment in the same text, together the MPs of the SRS, DS, the Serbian Movement of the Dvora and the Independent Members' Club. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from the Prophet of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27521	Here, we've been discussing the draft budget supplement law for almost four hours. The public should know that it is working on two members of the law and that 35 amendments have been submitted to those members, of which 25 amendments have been made by members of the government. Of course, if there is no comment that we have something against submitting amendments, no, of course, every MP has that right, but what is happening at this session is an obvious attempt to obstruct that by the authorities MPs could not talk about the draft budget law. The same thing that happened a few days ago when the MPs of this new-age opposition all day proposed some new laws, which they also have the right, but it makes the same sense as this day. Serbian citizens certainly want to hear what the government of the Republic of Serbia is proposing in this budget. Unfortunately, he won't be able to hear a word of it in detail. What you said to Minister Vujovic on Friday, let's say, caused a big public storm and whoever I met on the weekend people are asking me what Minister Vujovic meant by what he said the pensioners had the right to a pension solution, but not the amount. They asked me to try and explain to them what the minister thought? I said, you know what that means? It's like when you get a solution to the property tax, so you have the right to get that solution, and as far as the money is concerned, you don't have the amount, pay as much as you can, as well as the government pays, for pensions as much as you can, so at least as it comes to pensioners, you could do that. What is the problem with these amendments to the MPs of the government? These amendments have no amendment at all. These are beautiful desires that could be part of some sort of strategy. The legal norm cannot say that the implementation of the 2017 budget is realised by, to the greatest extent possible, improving, say, the efficiency of financial institutions in the Republic of Serbia or any other area. It's not a legal form. This could be part of some strategy. What is asked is what the public should also know, since the same story will be related to these future laws, if the MPs of the two members of the law have 25 objections, how can they vote tomorrow for the law, when they have 25 objections to what the government has proposed? It's the same case with the budget and with these other laws. MPs when they submit amendments, then they say, if these amendments were adopted, then we could vote for some proposal. Authorities are submitting 1,000 amendments, having 1,000 remarks from the minister on your draft laws, and will eventually probably vote for those laws. And that says that they are actually submitting these amendments just to prevent the debate of the MPs. I'm talking about the SRS parliamentary group, we've submitted a moderate number of amendments, as much as time has allowed, since thirty-one points we could have prepared 48 hours in total. In our amendments, we wanted to draw the public's attention and ask you from the government to do something in the interest of the Serbian citizens, because the budget as you suggested is not good. You can boast all you want, but we're not allowed to talk about it in detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27522	The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27523	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Vujovic, first of all, I have great respect for the way in which you are discussing today in parliament, because your discussions have been devoid of these boring party frameworks, you have spoken to us quite frankly and openly and perhaps in a better way than we have explained all the nonsense of those amendments we have heard since 10.00 this morning. We have submitted two quite excessive amendments, because we want to say that we are against the irresponsible use of this discriminatory and discredited right to share funds without any criteria. Let me tell you, the practice of your behaviour, not you personally, but the Government, shows that you can't explain how and on what criteria you've been sharing funds from the budget reserves with municipalities and that some presidents, the mayors, have received hundreds of millions, and they're from the ruling majority, and that some municipalities haven't received a single dinar and where there is a single change of that discretionary right to use the funds of citizens from the budget, there are some abuses. I've just shown you that. That's why we've submitted these amendments and the reason we're against this law. We've only submitted two amendments. We want to get to the essential amendments to the 2018 draft budget as soon as possible, what the ruling majority does not want. I blame you only because you did not take advantage of your authority, that this should not happen and that the essence should be amended to the 2018 budget, because it will also create policies and life in 2018. This is a burden for you if we do not come to discuss the amendments to the 2018 budget. We'll blame you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27524	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27525	Thank you very much. I understand your position, I just want to point out one thing. From personal experience and experience in many countries that have been going through similar things, reforms of the public sector management system in the state and all related, so we have a country in a narrow sense and these so-called so-called. indirect users of public funds have failed to address the problem by abdicating from management or reducing management rights. What you're asking as a question, I think taking away the right to decide with responsibility doesn't mean it's not a solution. So we're going to go into a phase that we say de facto, we're not capable of managing. What you are looking for should be regulated elsewhere, and that is the responsibility for the proposed solutions, the responsibility for making decisions, the monitoring of the realization of these things, and the subsequent submission of the report. That's where we totally agree. I wouldn't want you to give someone something away, you'll never solve the problem. We say this, we are decentralised and irresponsible decision-making about rewards and bonuses has proved to be something that gives effects that are not justified. This proved to be the source of some non-strategic reward in places where people had money, had the opportunity to reward themselves closer, in any way, family, party, in any way. We want to get out of this, and this is what we want to raise the level of decision-making, to introduce a legitimate discretionary right to propose with a view to the government and a responsible decision on this. You suggest a way to control this, that would be best, because that's the point. It's not about running away from reality and saying, "Don't make a decision." We want the laws we're going to talk about to introduce a performance decision and that after that, by the performances of people are rewarded, there will be horizontal and vertical movements in the matrix. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27526	Thank you, Minister. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27527	That's right, Minister. You listened carefully when I spoke about the first amendment and I said very specifically – I am not against discretionary rights, responsible discretionary rights for the minister and government to determine some means for certain purposes. I am personally against the irresponsible use of such a right and I have set an example of how this has been resolved in some countries that have implemented public administration reform, setting very clear criteria for the allocation of those funds. It's not done in this budget, you're right here, and are you going to do that to certain government rules, that's how it works, but I'm going to ask you on January 1st, did you do that when you split bonuses and profits? Did you do it? Your answer, I don't know if I'm going to get an answer, but I doubt it, because it's going to be shared by party line, by party assignments and by party obedience. There is a legitimate fear with us, even though you wrote in an explanation that there is no fear. It is, Minister, it exists. Because I told you -- there are no criteria by which you share funds from budget reserves, municipalities get hundreds of millions. How, say, did the municipality get 120, 150 million from the budget reserves? You can do it with criteria, you don't do it, and that's why there's an open fear with me and with us that you're going to abuse this responsibility again. That's where we need to understand each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27528	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The word is Maria Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27529	I thank the chairman. Mr. Minister, without the intention of getting into something personal, I must really congratulate you on how much sense you're talking about this nonsense. You listed the escape from reality, and I think it's a specialty precisely in all your explanations and in your marketing of Alexander Vukic. These 300 amendments that need to prevent the opposition from commenting on this law are actually saying that you have something to hide. Serbia's Dvori movement will not participate in this fraud. We will patiently save what little time remains for the opposition to discuss exactly the budget, a budget in which there is much hidden, and your behavior confirms it. I am sure that, even these 300 MEPs will not vote for their own amendments today, because they will not ring the bell 300 times in this House, I am absolutely certain of it, but we will, I say, wait patiently and use our time far more quality than the Minister does today. Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27530	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27531	Thank you. Members of the ruling coalition have today made a significant contribution to parliamentaryism with this number of amendments they have submitted and could probably enter the textbooks, as it is unheard that MPs in any country of the ruling coalition have submitted so many amendments, should already agree in advance with representatives of the government, elected by members of the ruling coalition. Of course, no one disputes the right for MPs to submit amendments, but here the problem is that these amendments are fixed and the way the session is called with this number of agenda points, so we probably won't even be able to talk about the budget. Here we attend a bad show, on whose repertoires are present and the attacks on the former government. What's very worrying, since we've heard about flights, winters, grandfather's houses, is that the ideology of poverty is being promoted here, which is very bad for further development of our country. What is the problem with this law, and also with the budget law that we will probably not even discuss is intransparency and this large gray zone and this excessive discretionary power of ministers and went into the draft budget for 2018. Here no one questions the expertise of Minister Vujovic and I, regardless of the education I possess, I never have the illusion that I could participate equally in the debate with him. But this isn't about economic knowledge, it's about the problem that the minister is moving in the given wrong political frameworks, so even economic magic couldn't help us.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27532	Thank you. Right on line, MP Dr. Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27533	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few notes since our parliamentary group is mentioned and this issue of submitting amendments. We haven't heard two things. The first thing we haven't heard is if someone really thinks that something terrible has been denied by the fact that we've submitted amendments for the possibility of discussing the 2017 budget or for 2018 or anything else that interests him under God, we haven't heard, here, now it's two afternoons, we started this session at 1:00, why don't they do what they want in four hours? Here's four hours we've been discussing in this room, and I haven't noticed that even one single parliamentary group on the other hand has shown any restraint, any devotion to say whatever they want. Then why don't they get to the point once and start talking about what they miss so much? I would say for one reason only – which there seems to be absolutely nothing to say, what they would like to say do not know exactly what should be, what should be said and what content to have. I'd like it to get to the point once, to take advantage of all the time they have on the Rules of Procedure, and they're using it abundantly for what they think should be the purpose of that time. The other thing we haven't heard is how does someone get convinced, where does someone come up with the right to argue that they enjoy and use it abundantly, deny us? Where does anyone come up with the idea that our MPs may be slightly less valuable, so that they have less right to use those opportunities that the Rules of Procedure provides if someone on the other hand can submit an amendment whenever he comes to mind, on whatever topic, any law? We've listened here to erase everything and everything so many times. Where does he get the idea that another MP can't just because he's a member of the SNS to submit an amendment? Is that still the problem of self-proclaimed and self-conceived elitism, those who think that they are God's days for all, who have never essentially understood democracy, and can be called Democrats as much as they want, who think that just because they think that some elites are really? These two things to explain to us, so we can go on and on about technique, and also about their essence, although that's never really happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27534	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27535	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've seen a lot of complaints about rewards and bonuses here. The most complaints we had were for those groups and for those phenomena I call "the stealulović part of the fight companies". As they shared bonuses, I'll try to document it. There are 40 people here while Mr. "Rasulovic" served as minister. All 40 are from, I can't say the parties, the associations "never had enough". Here's a bonus: Ivan Ninić – 80 thousand, Dr Dusan Pavlovic - 113 thousand per contract of work, Faculty 150 thousand and that's a total of 263,000 and that sharing of pornography and God to see it. By the way, and that is our obligation as a representative of the citizens, in those countries that this professor is invited to, in the regulated countries, if someone shared on social networks underage pornography, it would end not only a political career, but also a career in college. Furthermore, Miroslava Milenovic, as I understand it, is an unfathomable candidate, 120,000 dinars a month, and then you have Alexander Stevanović, etc. They're all flowers from the same garden, and in that garden there seems to be everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27536	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The People's MP Stefana Miladanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Stefan Miladinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27537	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, it's a technical amendment. In fact, with the amendment, I wanted to carry out a text lecturing to meet the grammar and style rules. In this law, I find it not necessary and accordingly suggested that "this" be deleted as a word in front of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27538	Thank you, colleague Miladanovic. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27539	We're going back to work. Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will also decide on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the BUDGET SYSTEM You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the draft law. You have received reports from the competent committees, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Proposal for adding a preamble above Article 1. The amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. On the basis of Article 163(2), The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives rejected this amendment. Discarded amendments may not be subject to discussion and shall not be voted on. The MPs of the SRS and together Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, and the National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted to the amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and MP Marijan Risticevic. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27540	Dear President, to Article 1. The government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed to amend this member by eradicating the words "budget funds" from the definition of beneficiaries of budget funds, because they are already defined as members of the 64th law as records accounts, which will allow individual budget revenues and expenditures to be managed separately. This specifically concerns the objectives to be achieved when it comes to agreements, local, rural, republican and international. This will contribute to the improvement of the overall economic parameters achieved by the 2017 budget. Dear Presidents of the Assembly, we have seen today that these parameters are very little discussed by the opposition, and they are visible parameters. I'll only mention one parameter, and that's inflation. She was high during the former regime. In 2008, the former regime had an inflation rate of 14.9%, with Alexander Vukic's arrival at the head of the Prime Minister in 2014, down to 1.7%, the lowest possible inflation in the last 40 years. Is that right, gentlemen of the former regime? Look and compare the budget deficit. You had it in 2008 1.7%, to increase it to 7.1% in 2012, and President Aleksandar Vukic found it 7.1% when he arrived at power in 2014 in order to reach a surplus in 2017. The opposition won't talk about this, respected citizens, because the results are visible. I won't bother, but I've had inflation since 2008. That was a terrible inflation. In 2008, the U.S. – 14.9%, 2009 – 6.6%, 2010 – 10.3%, 2011 – 7%, 2012, when we took power – 13%, to bring it down to 7.8 and 1.7% already in 2014, which is the lowest inflation in the last 40 years. With this amendment, I wanted to give support and strengthen the proposal to the Government referred to in Article 1. etc. I think the government's answer was correct, and I accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27541	Thank you. Parliamentarians Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27542	Thank you. I also regret that the minister is not there, although others have been authorised there, I suppose, in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a proposing, so I expect the answer that I should receive, given that this amendment will be rejected, and it concerns extremely important matters, i.e. the definition of budgetary users in the financing system of the Republic of Serbia and concerns point 47, where the proposer, after the Republic of Serbia, recognises more local authorities in implementing EU financial assistance in financing, in general, the Republic of Serbia, but unfortunately does not recognise the autonomous provinces as well. I believe that this is extremely wrong, as well as my KSP colleagues, since not only by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, we have recognised two autonomous provinces, but for the simple reason that the AP Vojvodina has been participating for many years in the financing of projects, i.e. EU financial assistance, and that is by designing its own pre-financing funds. I'm going to set a concrete example immediately, to make that clear, illustrative. Here, for example, it was the BioSens Institute, which also praised Prime Minister Ana Brnabic during the previous period, even there she went to Novi Sad to lay the cornerstones, but no one took into account that it was for example. the BioSens project was launched and initiated by the Regional Government in 2015, that the European Commission considered this particular project by the Regional Government in the previous session the best project in this area that year. I believe that, despite the fact that the AP Vojvodina is still in the local self-government regime, when it comes to the recognition of the budget, or the means of transfer, it deserves a place that belongs to it both under the Constitution and under the law, of course, expressing regret that we do not have a law today on the financing of the AP Vojvodina and that, I suppose, is one of the reasons. But here's a chance for that to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27543	Thank you. The word has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27544	Thank you. Dear MPs, I'll try to respond quickly. The local authorities and the Budgetary System Act also include the provinceal authority and the local self-government is understood, so that all of this is covered and does not need to be listed individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27545	Thank you. (Marinika Tepic: Can I just supplement? You can.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27546	Thank you. I guess we listened very carefully. I am in the very conclusion and said that I consider it a mistake, that I fully know and believe that the AP Vojvodina has remained in the funding regime by identifying it through local self-government. But that's wrong. Last year, Minister Vujovic said in the same budget debate last year that it was wrong and that by this year, right through the law which is now the subject of the debate, as well as in the 2018 Budget Law, that error will correct it. He also voiced hope that during the whole previous year at least someone would initiate the adoption of the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, if it is not the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it could be done by any MP and, of course, the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. I am sorry that the assembly majority of Igor Mirovic did not do so. But, therefore, given that the minister is not here, I would like to hear the reasons why it has not happened in these years and that in the same laws we have the same degradation of autonomous provinces, I think, of course, on both autonomous provinces of Kosovo and Metohija and Vojvodina, and that they are in the regime of municipalities and cities, or units of local self-government. I believe that you are aware that it is wrong, that it is bad and that it further creates an impression of evil intentions when it comes to the budget, or the wallet, as we say, states. I want an answer to the question – why has this situation not changed so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27547	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27548	And we have submitted an amendment that we asked to delete Article 1. It's a bill of law. Why? If the budget fund goes out and no longer becomes an indirect beneficiary of the budget, I don't know what we're going to get. We have read one explanation that the budget fund is actually an account in the Treasury, so all the direct, indirect beneficiaries of the budget in the Treasury are accounts, but behind that account is a legal person and the budget fund is a legal person. Take a look at the draft law for 2018, so you will see where all the positions of the budget funds are, and these are essentially dedicated funds, where some of the funds are allocated for specific purposes. However, the much bigger problem with this Budgetary System Act is that... What I'm holding in my hand is a list of users of public funds. In this section there are only about 2,000 users of public funds, so-called public funds. a republican level. The regulation and this list are based on Article 8. The law on the Serbian budget system passed by the finance minister. When we look at only the beneficiaries of the budget at the Republican level, we'll see direct and indirect users here. However, there are six other public funds users, under the code of seven other public funds users. All of them must be included in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Unfortunately, they are not in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Why aren't they here? Where's the National Deposit Insurance Corporation? Where are the other numerous agencies? It is not in the Republic of Serbia's budget, it has been expelled, and they are beneficiaries of the budget. We will open on one of the following members a big dilemma - what are public revenues, what are incomes, what are public expenditures, what are expenditures, so that you can see how many our budgets are over the past few years, not only vague, but they do not contain a real representation of budget spending. A good part of budget spending, in one large percentage, lies outside the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. If it were to go with that logic to get the budget funds thrown out, please excuse me, and what will remain in the Republic of Serbia's budget? Are we going to discuss only 60% of the spending at the level of the Republic and 40% of it to be invisible to us, as it is now in one large percentage invisible?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27549	Minister Djordjevic is entitled to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27550	First, as far as the first question is concerned, the local government that was introduced here as a concept of coverage and autonomous provinces and local self-government, and when amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, we can talk about changing terminology and being defined differently in the Budgetary System Act. As far as your question is concerned, you said nicely, that's exactly what you said, it would probably be right as you said, and it would probably make sense. The budget fund is not a legal person, it's the first thing. The second thing, the users you listed are not the beneficiaries of the budget, but the public funds, and then that doesn't put them in this category that you mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27551	Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27552	Thank you, Your Honor. Not to repeat what Honorable colleague Aleksandra Tomic said in the previous presentation and in the previous law, this is one of the amendments that our cocussus submitted. In this case, it is on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System of the Republic of Serbia for 2018. What is stated in the amendment itself, and what I will tell you from the explanation, the proposed amendment is precisely defined by the UN sustainable development policy and is in line with the plan to apply it to all Member States. This global policy aims to direct all public policies of all countries to reduce poverty, improve prosperity and social justice, protect the environment in order to provide adequate responses to the challenges facing climate change. That this draft budget says that this government is applying exactly what we have stated in this amendment, the objective of this government is precisely sustainable development, and that we are working on sustainable development, when it comes to public funds, or budgets, tells us the consistency of our incomes and expenditures and the budget exactly as it has been done. The goal of this budget is to reduce poverty, to ensure that our country and our citizens, above all, are satisfied citizens who have jobs and make some income, that they can provide their own lives and their families. Unlike some previous period, where we had cases that had shut down our businesses, all those who had privatized from 2000 to 2012 turned all these privatisation revenues into some wrong or wrong pockets. Our goal is to create a sustainable state and employ as many of our citizens as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27553	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27554	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this amendment proposes adding a new stance and proposes planning, preparing, adopting and implementing the Republic of Serbia's budget, to implement it by improving the financial basis for the judicial system in the Republic of Serbia to the greatest extent possible, with the aim of further encouraging the development of the justice system in the Republic of Serbia. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the organisation of the government rests on the division of power for legislative, executive and judicial, and the principle of division of power is based precisely on balance and mutual control of these three branches of government. It is precisely because the judicial authority is expected to perform its function in the best possible way, it should be provided, but to a large extent, this amendment improves the financial base for the justice system of the Republic of Serbia in general. The government of the Republic of Serbia has committed to implementing reforms for a more modern, more effective and responsible judicial system, all because of citizens who need to be given access to justice, the right to a fair trial and equal treatment in court. In this way, strengthening the rule of law and legal certainty is achieved, and the most important thing is to restore citizens' confidence in the justice system of the Republic of Serbia. A strong financial base also implies a faster improvement of the judicial system. Good planning and budget implementation achieve the objectives set before the judicial system. Those are all the reasons for submitting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27555	The First Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27556	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is also about investment, strengthening investment and supporting investment in the budget. In the 2018 budget, it is precisely for investment support, i.e. to build roads, bridges and public buildings, in the interest of citizens, planned as many as 128 billion dinars, which I certainly welcome. How did we come to have so much money available for investment today? First of all, we were rational and well-planned revenue and expenditure in the budget, which we were saving. It is important to show you some information that clearly shows how we managed to save this money in the budget and how well we planned the budget, and on the other hand to see why, before 2012, we had a situation that there was not this much money in the budget for investment. Here I have indicators of macroeconomic movements from the Ministry of Finance site showing us clearly some parameters. So, if we look at GDP, domestic product in billions of euros in 2008, it was 33 billion and 704m euros. Already in 2012, the same parameter, i.e. the same amount, is 31 billion and 683m euros, i.e. for two billion, was GDP in 2012. What does that look like in SNS? What I was saying was at the time of the “yellow company. ” What does that look like in SNS? So in 2015, the total GDP was 33 billion and 491 million, so that already in 2016 it would be 34 billion and 616 million. So almost a billion and 200 million more. What does that look like per capita, which is also some economic indicator? So, 4.586 euros per capita was in 2008 to drop to 4,400 in 2012, at the time of the "yellow company", and in 2015, at the time of the SNS, this same GDP per capita was 4,720 euros, and in 2016 4,904 euros with a tendency to go up in 2017. If we look at, say, the export of goods, that same export of goods, or foreign trade in 2008, was seven billion 428 million, to go only by a billion up to eight billion in 2012, that's at the time of the "yellow company", and look at what it looks like at the time of the SNS - 12 billion euros was exports of goods in 2015, to jump to 13 billion 432 million already in 2016, and in this year there will be even more. So I could really list you further, but through the next amendments I'm going to keep telling you what we can see, what it looked like at DS time and why we're not enough investment at that time, and what it looks like at SNS time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27557	Minister Djordjevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27558	Thank you. Both proposals are very constructive, but I will try to explain why they are not acceptable to the government. You've explained well, and it would be good to, it's just two of the goals we should have as a state. There are many, many more of them, and then we should individually list them in it. This represents a higher expenditure of budgetary users who are responsible for both the proposal and the Government, and the Ministry of Finance is not to set out specific objectives, but they fall under the authority of whoever is responsible for it as a budgetary user and is assumed to be working on the realization of it. That's why they were avoided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27559	The amendment was submitted by Parliament member Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27560	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable ministers, fellow Members and MPs, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1. The draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, which adds item 3 -- planning, preparation, adoption, implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget, is realised to the greatest extent possible to improve the position of the most vulnerable social groups in the Republic of Serbia. I must point out that since 2014, the government of Alexander Vukic has committed a dedicated transfer to develop local social security services for the first time in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Why does it matter? It is about municipalities that are less economically developed and it is about users of social protection services having full and equal access to social protection services, regardless of whether they lived in Belgrade, whether they lived in Kruševec, whether they lived in Priboj, Prepolje, or Novi Varoša. On 15 March 2017, the Government signed a contract on dedicated transfers with 123 units of local self-government, and these funds are currently intended for the development of personal assistance services, for the development of house assistance services, for the development of daily stay services for children with development disorders, for the development of living services for adults and old persons, for personal assistance services, etc. What I must also point out, which is that the government has recognised the importance of identifying funds for the most vulnerable categories when it comes to old faces and I will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27561	The first amendment was submitted by Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27562	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, I have tabled an amendment that again refers to the 2030 Sustainable Development Strategy and specifically concerns the promotion of lifelong learning opportunities. We know that we live in a very difficult time when due to inadequate policy and irresponsible policy, which has been led from 2000 to 2012 many workers have lost their jobs, some have completely and completely disappeared and have left us with difficult employment categories of the population. They're mostly people who are in, say, a good life with full-time experience, but they're just not attractive on today's market. All in order to reduce poverty, we need greater promotion of lifelong learning, i.e. the possibility of retraining and enabling their interests to be new, if possible, and to be attractive on the existing labour market or on any future labour market. Of course, this requires the synchronisation of not only the Ministry of Economy, but also the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Local Self-Government, and in addition to many economic and agricultural activities where we could make a serious turn when it comes to lifelong learning, one part, a good part can be achieved through social protection programmes. I'll give you one example. It is the licensing of services in social protection and the possibility that those who have lost their jobs are licensed by one of the services such as personal assistants or escorts, to get a degree and the possibility of finding a very human and good job for themselves. In this way, it will help bolerable categories of people who need help, and it will help themselves and their families. Thus, the person who does the job he loves will be fulfilled, and therefore a good member of the community. Just one small example from the town where I come from, it's the town of Kruševac. Ten years ago, you couldn't hear a word about personal assistants. Since 2012, the story has been updated. Last year, certain financial resources were allocated which we thought would not be sufficient in 2018. So they were raised for escorts of children with developmental disturbances to school and back by 50%. From eight to 12 grand. I think it's a good example and we should be handling such good examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27563	The word is Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27564	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so I could either support or support this amendment, but I'm afraid it won't change much. I have proposed amendments to the laws that allow exactly what you, Mrs. Rakonjac, have spoken of. We need to change the Law on the Foundations of an education and education system to get to what you're talking about right now. There are children for whom the interresor commission has decided that they need a personal assistant, a personal assistant, a pedagogical assistant who does not have personal or pedagogical assistants. There are children for whom the interresor commission has made its decision and they have. This is systemic discrimination. We need to change that by changing the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. We can't do that with this amendment. And to vote and to support all of this amendment, that's not going to happen, because the Law on Fundamentals of Education doesn't allow it. So, yes, special funds are needed. I even submitted an amendment to the 2018 budget that would make it possible. I'll see if you can support it and vote for that amendment, although I probably won't have time to talk about it. Your intention is good, I don't doubt your intention, but this amendment to this law will not achieve it. So there is a systemic discrimination of a number of children, because now there are children in our education system that the interresor commission has decided they need certain health, pedagogical, educational support, and they do not have that support. And there are a number of children whose inter-resor commission has set up this kind of support, and they do. So it's about one systemic discrimination in the education system and I've passed a special law to try and solve this one. I'm afraid we won't do it with this amendment, but I will definitely support your proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27565	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27566	By amendment. I'm glad we agreed on something. If we'd done this before, it might have been a lot better. I suggest that you be at the part of the session when the amendments are voted on, so let's see what the result and the outcome will be. I suggest you also be on round tables when this is discussed. Maybe you didn't understand me enough when I said we should do a promotion. So these are completely new occupations and we're partially unknown, not ordinary populations. Therefore, we need to work on the promotion, to interest citizens who do not have a job, and they are professional and can exercise their right to work through licenses, for mutual benefit. I invite you to cooperate, and I hope that in some future period, we may work together nicely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27567	Dr Darko Laketic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27568	Honored Presidents, Honored Ministers, Honored Fellow People's MPs, this is Article 1. The law on the budgetary system on which I tabled the amendment speaks of planning, preparation, budget implementation of the Republic of Serbia, as well as planning, preparation for the implementation of the budget of autonomous provinces, i.e. units of local self-government. The amendment that I have submitted – the implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget is realised to the greatest extent possible to improve the efficiency of local self-government in the Republic of Serbia. Namely, the motive for submitting such an amendment lies in that, above all, in order to adequately establish proper control in local self-governments. Examples of practices at the level of local self-government indicate that borrowing at the level of local self-government really was enormous in the period of ex-government and what is very important is, there are really flagrant examples where this percentage of the violation of that financial discipline was truly exceptional in that sense, therefore, financial indiscipline. A typical example is the Municipality of Prokuplje, where in the period from 2006 to 2009, without a public procurement plan, without the planned and provided funds, the public procurement procedure was conducted by guessing without prior publication in the public company of the Directorate for Construction and Urbanism. This is exactly how they agreed not to pay, and then they brought a public company to the Directorate for Construction and Urbanism for Insolvency of more than 400 million dinars for more than three years. They have therefore compromised the liquidity of the Municipality of Prokuplje. All the jobs done this way are made with one company. It's the Nis Road Company. These jobs, as I said, have not been paid, and in this way has been practically beyond that period of ex-government, remained a wasteland that has inconceivable consequences for the City of Prokuplje. Why do I say that? Because just the past few days, more precisely last week, an executive verdict of 202 million dinars arrived, and what the Municipality of Prokuplje is currently facing is a struggle for survival. All of this is due to one irresponsible, arrogant and insecure authority and individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27569	Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by the MP Ljiljana Malušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27570	Dear Presidents, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, my amendment reads – Planning, preparing and adopting the implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget is realised to the greatest extent possible to improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia. The objective of the amendment is to strengthen and improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia by means of a legal solution. Imagine that 100m euros were used to build schools, kindergartens, cultural and sports centres, to stimulate the financing of talented children. Instead, 100m euros went to finance someone's campaign. Imagine whose. "The development of Vojvodina Bank" took about 100m euros from Serbia's budget and gave them to the DS for the campaign. It's a shame. Education should encourage innovation, critical opinion and entrepreneurship to provide young people with the necessary skills to be competitive on the market. That's the goal of this government. We're raising wages. At this point, 197 billion dinars for education. An increase in wages leads to a state. The government is doing a great job, and I am sure this issue of "Development Bank" and 100m euros, which should have gone to education, for example, will be dealt with by someone who deals with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27571	The word has been made by MP Radoslav Milojic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27572	Thank you, President. I believe the vast majority of citizens are watching and listening to what is said. A hundredm euros were given by the "Vojvodine Development Bank", according to the previous speaker. I'm not sure the lady hit the right numbers, but 100 million euros is really a nice number, ma'am, so I'm asking you once more, before you drink coffee, check that data. I see you're consulting a colleague. If there's no one on that side who can add up to 100 million euros, then ask someone outside of this room. As far as other matters are concerned, the DS was a government in 2012 at all levels. We had a president of the Republic, an excellent prime minister, a great government and power in almost all local self-government. The Democratic Party, because it was fair and the rest of the fair party took a loan that comes back today. For six years, the DS returned the loan it took in 2012 even though it was in power, because we didn't steal and we didn't have the money to finance the campaign. That's what it says about our honesty. What you're funding your campaigns from, I'd really like to know. If I don't find out now, I'll find out in a year, two when you're out in opposition. Once again, I ask you to check the amount of about 100 million euros, because it is not appropriate to speak such untruths here. No man in Serbia can believe that any campaign in the world cost 100m euros, but you are SNS experts, so we are not surprised by you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27573	Replica, MP Ljiljana Malušić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27574	Thank you, Your Honor. About how you work, they showed citizens in the election, so you got a little more than 4%, and then with some Glue 5%. And I will continue later on on about 24 controversial privatisations, again about "Hetherland" and all your malfeasances, about apartments in Vienna, about pastures and not counting any further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27575	Thank you. By amendment, Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27576	That's right. In the spirit of this debate on the issues of the Development Bank and campaign financing, if I have followed it well, I believe it will also benefit further debate. Here's something I'm looking at from the debate on the very developmental bank of Vojvodina. The then director of the "yellow company", Bojan Pajtic, had different proposals in 2012, and now just to see what order the size is. The proposals to resuscitate, a truly catastrophic situation on the Vojvodine Development Bank, included a proposal to transfer 140m euros of secured deposits guaranteed by the state, covered by cash in the bank, by state investment from previous capitalisation in March of that year, to another bank of nine billion dinars, and to share around 100m euros of unsecured deposits, as a cost of liquidation, between the government of Serbia and the government of Vojvodina. When we talk about campaign financing, I am aware that this issue is particularly painful for those who celebrated their payments at the expense of the "yellow company" in 2012, we have already discussed these data here, payments that were truly fantastic. I think we're already being instructed by that data, it's about payments of hundreds of thousands of dinars by different faces, all the very prominent high-ranking officers of the "yellow company" at the time. I think Mr. Djelic, who specifically profited from his membership in the company, has made double payments of 550, 560,000 dinars. We have also had so many large, chubby payments of hundreds of thousands of dinars and of some of the people's MPs present here and in this assembly, of 341 thousand dinars, also, of high-ranking officials such as Alexander Bjelic, 431 thousand dinars, otherwise that faithful associate of the "yellow tycoon" Dragan Dilas. Well, for him, it's no wonder he has so much money to help his company. We had payments of 250,000 dinars, it seems to me then deputy president of the parliamentary group, 163,800 dinars Nebojsa Zelenovic from Sapac, I think at that time also high officer Marko Bastic, Stari Grad, 580,000 dinars, also, prominent face belonging to the very company, brother of a former minister, Modest Dulic 138,200, etc. We could talk about it safely all day today. If there's any need, we'll look this through a little bit more. What's the problem, and what's the reason someone comes back to this topic and starts it again? Apparently personal dissatisfaction. Where do I see him, first of all? Well, for example, in the fact that the current director of the "yellow company", according to these 2012 figures, was fairly embarrassed. On all these hundreds of thousands of dinars, he has paid 35,000 dinars. So, less than the pensioners, and now they're MPs, so they can pay 50 grand or 38, and he's only 35. So if that's why he's complaining and being personally unsatisfactory, it's his business. If that's why we're here to further search, it's no problem, we're going to meet his personal dissatisfaction and we're going to talk about this in more detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27577	Goran Ciric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27578	The obvious need to, what we were saying today, and also with the beginning of this session, turn away from the key topics, the ones that need to be talked about here. We need to talk about the budget, we need to talk about what the DS has given as its amendments and who will defend here in this room, and that is our goal to protect pensioners, to protect people who, here, are the third year after the adoption of the Law on Salary Reduction and Pensions, according to us against the constitutional, therefore, something that has been acquired by the pensioner's right done in this majority, we are now returning to the topic or trying to re-sell the topic of the Development Bank, Hetherland or some of the other topics that we have talked about here. Here, for six years you've been in power, solve this problem of the Development Bank, solve this problem of Heterland, arrest those who are guilty and prove guilty, if there's any blame for these affairs, as you call them. I think that, first of all, is your responsibility at this point, not the responsibility of the people sitting in these benches and those people who are in the DS. The Democratic Party, as has already been said, is paying its loan, which is too expensive, and it is a harmful job for DS, from the Development Bank with 18% interest. And she's not the party that shut down her business to avoid paying off your debt, because you know you yourself have coalition partners who have avoided paying off their debts by shutting down their customers. You accepted them as partners, and personally, and as individuals, and as an organization. So the DS stands behind its debts, as all citizens in the Republic of Serbia stand and will pay off their debts.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27579	Thank you. By amendment, Vesna Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27580	Thank you, Your Honor. You know what, when you draw on one side, then 100 million euros looks like a lot, when you're on the other side and they go through your hands, then you don't have a lot of insight into how much money that is. But if one of their directors from the "yellow company", who has been at the head of a single institution for 12 years, has only made it impossible for workers to deny 30 percent stimulation, then I'm talking about the average amount, which is one million and 300 euros, so what is 100 million for the campaign. Did they go into his pocket, did they go for the campaign as a donation? I don't know, it's a question of investigative organs. But since they've passed laws before that that they can act freely and feel free to steal, then there's nothing left for us but to inform the citizens about it, because they were definitely stealing by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27581	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27582	Since I see that there is an interest in the subject, just to maintain the course of discussion, I understand and support on my part the call for these issues to be clarified, and that where the institution should react, that it should happen. Here we re-analyze what happened next with Vojvodina Development Bank, and I read that on suspicion of abuse of official position, the arrested former chairman of the Executive Board of the very same bank and member of the Executive Board. So something seems to be happening when it comes to exploring everything that in one normal state and a regulated system shouldn't happen. By the way, when we talk about those interesting methods of funding political campaigns, just a moment ago, I thought I mentioned two names of people who were also being irresponsible about something that wasn't their own, but what belonged to the citizens of this country, they were being hit by some investigations and some proceedings. I think this very Mr. Belic, whom I mentioned, was the subject of the interest of the authorities, and he and another 40 of the closest associates of the "yellow tycoon", Gilas Dragana. If people have forgotten what it is, it is the famous "Bulevar" affair, when it was found that six million euros, ladies and gentlemen, ended up in private pockets. So on the subject of whether someone is dealing with investigations of what really shouldn't be happening in an orderly and modern system in a country that holds onto itself and is trying to be a service to its citizens, not a private front of a company, even if it is a "yellow company". The former minister's brother, whom I mentioned, is simply the brother of a minister who, believe it or not, is the subject of the interest of the authorities, among other things, because of millions of amounts, which represent a direct abuse of the position to decide in a country about something, that a system is being old. Speaking of these interesting ways to finance the campaign "yellow company", and with that I end up, I think I've found a new Vracar municipality recorder, 619 thousand dinars, I think he knows his personal colleague Markovic, so he'll tell you a little bit more about it. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27583	Thank you. (Vladimir Orlic: Are you now shutting me down? That's right, two minutes and 12 seconds. The word has Goran Ciric, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27584	Yes, this is a way to forget what this session is about. The topic is the budget and the way Serbian citizens will live in 2018. We talked about it all the time, but I'd like you to back up all these attitudes about attacks on DS, by being self-critical enough, because first you need to get out of your yard. I told you, since you're talking about the Development Bank, since you're talking about Heterland, go out with your findings, go out with your investigations and tell us who's the wrong name and last name, if anyone's even responsible for those situations you're talking about. You're six years old, you've been talking about it for six years, so go ahead, I'm calling you and I think it's the interest of each of these MPs sitting in these benches of the Democratic Party, to finally hear the truth. But the truth will be much stronger and stronger if you go out of your yard, if you also analyze your party president and president, who publicly told the media how the SNS financed the campaign. He said the example -- here, sitting two people in a bar, coming in third and offering 800 euros, they don't know how to pay, and that's how you can finance your own party. I think by opening that question from your backyard, you have more rights, more moral rights to talk about other parties, both the Democratic Party and everything else. Once again, please, make the investigative authorities much more efficient, explore what you most often mention, which is Hetherland, it's the Development Bank, and get to know the public, and then the Assembly with these findings. Otherwise, this is the place where we talk about the Republic of Serbia's 2018 budget and the Democratic Party MPs are looking forward to the opportunity to talk about their amendments and their solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27585	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27586	Now I understand from the presentation, for calling to speak by name and last name. It's okay, you didn't seem to understand exactly who I was thinking of. I did by name and last name here mention Alexander Belic and his boss, Gilas Dragan. So, just that yellow tycoon that, when we talk about a long party, I think he's holding his yellow company in his hands today. He had already taken over some debt and God knows how many of their apartments, cars, and any other values he still has in his pocket. So I did name them. What I didn't seem to be precise enough to think about, is who I was still thinking about. So when I mentioned my brother from the former minister, I meant Minister Dulic. Maybe we didn't understand each other about that. When I was talking about payments, among other things, you, I think, also paid 80,000 dinars or some kind of approximate value. Then you must know, you followed it, that they participated, say, and Dusan Elezovic, we mentioned it today, with 73,400, as well as Zoran Alimpic with 87,600. Daddy, I think, is a man from the Vrachar municipality I mentioned earlier, who seems to me to be a recordr with 620,000 dinars. And the current director of the yellow company, maybe we didn't understand who I mean, I mean Dragan Sutanovac. He paid 35,400 dinars, and I'm guessing he's got a problem comparing that payment to the hundreds of thousands paid by the others. But not to be understanding of Dragan Sutanovec, of course we do. The man couldn't pay more because he was saving at that moment. I was saving money in order to raise a million-and-a-half euros to buy that return pasture on which the building was to be built, so that it could find a property of 300 000 euros, and in that property of 300,000 euros, find a small, beautiful safe in which it will keep its savings books, also weighing 300,000 euros. This was to be spared and could not be spent on various campaign payments, even his yellow company. I think we understand each other now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27587	Thank you. (National MP Marinika Tepic throws out of place. ) There is a colleague, Ciric, he can replicate. Don't throw it away, I'm talking to Mr. Balša Bozovic. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27588	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you for having the same arches when it comes to the ruling majority and when it comes to the opposition. As you know, the verdict for this famous pasture, it is an affair made by the SNS in the tabloids, was made and Dragan Sutanovac was the victim, not only of being the president of the Democratic Break, but also of being a senior official who was in power from 2008 to 2012 and carried out a comprehensive security and military reform. What's the case with us is that many have been dragged through the mud and mud, including the mention of Oliver Dulic, but here are the members of their family. Well, how many family members will you mention in a few months' time and how many of them you'll muddle if you're in power for six years, if the verdicts are purely liberating? So 120 people were detained, either in custody, interrogated, harassed, and there is no judicial verdict. You're still ahead of the election, five years later, condemning someone in this home and in some tabloids that he stole about five, six, or I don't know how many millions. How is it possible for you to know that you paid two million euros to the fountain and that there are 600,000 euros on the site, that the meter is one mast of a million and 800 thousand dinars? What do we do with that? That one retirement site is 150,000 euros. The site is 150,000 euros! Well, how dare you tell someone they're a thief? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27589	Thank you, colleague Bozovic. The word has Vladimir Orlic, right on line. I'm sorry. Mr. Rističević, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27590	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107. The dignity of the National Assembly has been marred by exposure to the previous speaker. In Nigeria, there is a fake Dragan Sutanovac. (Balsa Bozovic: Which member? Article 107, I said, a violation of dignity. Nigeria is lucky. They've got a fake, and we've got a real one. They probably don't have a lot of pastures to build on. Namely, dignity was violated because the court's verdict was, I don't know, liberating. The court concluded that Dragan Sutanovac has the 300m and some squares on the pasture in Vracar, but that he was not responsible because he did not know that he had not reported the property to the Anti-Corruption Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27591	How did I hurt the Rules of Procedure with that?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27592	You hurt the Rules of Procedure by allowing the previous speaker to tell the lie, to violate dignity, and that citizens of all things can conclude that he did not build on the pasture, that there are no 300,000 euros in the account, and that Balsa has just told me that Dragan Sutanovac has 500,000 in his account. Well, I wonder where the 200 grand difference is made? And you, Mr. Chairman, see in the future, when the dignity of the National Assembly is violated, that accurate data be provided. So Dragan Sutanovac had 300 and some squares on Vrakar and failed to report it to the Anti-Corruption Agency. I'm not asking you to vote on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27593	Thank you. Right on the line, Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27594	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To answer those questions about how we're not ashamed of the fountain in Belgrade. It's not hard to understand, it's very simple. This fountain, by design, if you look at those photos of the former capital of Belgrade, the yellow tycoon Dragan Gilas, and the one who has now asked that question was standing next to him, as I am now beside Mr. Markovic, so they stood next to each other, and next to them a drawing of the fountain, a 3D drawing, very beautiful, that fountain looks just like the one that was built. But what is the matter and why are we not ashamed? Not because this one, as far as it's said, costs two million, and it's not two, you went too far, but because it was supposed to cost, exactly what they published when they advertised themselves in addition to the magazine "Time", it was called "The Time of Belgrade", 4.8 million. That's when they were expecting... (Balsa Bozovic: With underground passages. Not with the passages. Do you know how many passages? With 24 million passages. Well, it says in that magazine over there. So 24 million was supposed to cost with the passages, and the fountain itself was 4.8 million. They said themselves that they wanted that fountain to be musical, that the fountain would be with light effects. Why? To look like a miracle or magic fountain from Barcelona. And now that you make the same one for three times less money, what's there to be a shame? We made up what others invented and imagined. They weren't able to do it, and they still wanted to fit into it three times, and we did. Shame on us? There's no reason. If we're talking about innocence, I read here the names of people who were convicted and among others, and also among those who were paying, Bora Novakovic was. He, like Bjelic, seems condemned to me, as did former Minister Dulic. All hundreds of thousands of euros paid to the Democratic Party in 2012. And Dragan Sutanovac, whose verdict says he owns, and I end up with all this stuff I said he owns, 35,400, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27595	Thank you, colleague Bozovic. I think the president also gave the chief of Parliament's club to Mr. Ciric, and I gave you a chance. I think this is losing real sense. You made your remarks, and you answered Mr. Ciric and you. Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Basic Dragan Sutanovac, president of the Democratic Party. Please, let's move on. Thank you for understanding. The word has Sasa Radulovic, after the amendment. Here you go. Thank you, colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27596	I think that citizens who are following this session forgot what the amendment is about, so let me remind them, the MP said: "The planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget is realised to the greatest extent possible in the role of education in the Republic of Serbia". This amendment doesn't change anything on the law, it doesn't mean that over 300 of these amendments have been submitted by the ruling majority, until break 22 of the amendments were defended, from 33, all 22 of them were in this same way. The finance minister is no longer present in the O.R. I know it's nice for you to have fun with this, take time, I hope, or we'll see if there's any time left until the 2018 Budget Act. That's what we're looking at, we're not going to participate in this farce, we're going to listen to what you have to say, we're really not interfering with you so that you can show your face to the citizens of Serbia, what do you really think you're doing, what you're doing. The main problem and this is the biggest shame, you will not vote for these amendments yourself. It's sad, but let's take a look at this theater show. MPs enough was not going to participate in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27597	Thank you, colleague Radulovich. The word has Vladimir Orlic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27598	Well, make it the shortest today. You know what's sad? It is sad to see the MP cursing other people's MPs in his live address and it is unfortunate when the MP advertises movies for adults. That's sad.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27599	Thank you. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Comrade Krsto Janjušević, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27600	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers and Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment reads: "Planning, preparing, adopting and implementing the Republic of Serbia's budget is realised to the greatest extent to support the development of the economy in the Republic of Serbia". We just heard from opposition lines that we can't add up to 100 million, it's important that they can subtract up to one billion. To take away, to whom? Serbian citizens. More specifically, where? In Belgrade. And that's the debt we found in Belgrade when we came to power. So more than a billion euros, Gilas and his team tasked every citizen in Belgrade with 630 euros. The debt has been reduced by 455m euros with a number of infrastructure projects we have implemented. When they say you're processing and you're not processing us, so there's that. Only the case of eight affairs shows that at least 44 people were arrested or charged who were the closest associates of Dragan Gilas, the party's official and their related persons, and when we...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27601	Go back to the topic, colleague Janjusevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27602	I'm in the dark. I'm sorry. When we run a program that they think will make a better budget, a better state of finance, I imagine it like this, respected citizens, we have worked so responsibly that during our term of office, 44 of our closest co-workers have been arrested or charged with embezzlement from one billion. If you vote for us, we'll do everything we can to get the conditions to arrest at least 100 of our associates and at least embezzle one three billion. The other thing, colleague Orlic said one good comparison, and in terms of one to three, I'm talking about investment. All estimates suggest that the Adi Bridge cost three times as much, and I'm making one proposal, which is that along the Sava River, two panels are placed on each of them to stand a picture of the Mosta on Ada. A colleague accused me of trying to be poetic. I don't remember when he noticed, but since he asked me to, I'll try to be it now. So, on every board that stands a picture of the Bridge on Ada, and below to write, let's say – if only the yellow had paid enough, Belgrade would have two more bridges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27603	Thank you. The word is Dejan Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27604	Mr. Chairman, my colleague is going to talk about Mr. Janjusevic who talked about everything, just not the amendment, and I just want to ask you where Minister Vujovic is right now. So, we're talking about the Budget System Act. He is authorized before the government to represent the government in parliament. With all due respect to the ministers who are here, we think it is the most invited to discuss this with Minister Vujovic, so please inform us and invite Minister Vujovic to return to parliament. Once again, with the respect of Minister Ruzic and Djordjevic, I think he is the most invited here to be Minister Vujovic, because the government has defined him as representing parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27605	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. The debate is united and all ministers are authorized, so it's completely legitimate. Here are Minister Djordjevic and Minister Branko Ruzic with other counterparts who are members of the cabinet of ministers, so we have a format entirely for normal work. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has Marinika Tepic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27606	Thank you, Chairman. I think you've hurt Article 106. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and that you did not respond in good time, or immediately, to the last speaker to speak about the amendment. You should have stopped him when he started actually having a debate, who knows which one today, about the local elections in Belgrade, because I see that the parliamentarian's manner is the ruling majority that since this morning, former Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas has been attacking. If they think they're making enemies out of him, they're wrong. Please explain to him that it is a completely transparent tactics that make him an enemy, in fact, doing a campaign in his favor, that it is transparent, that it is not done in this way, that we should talk about the Law on the Budgetary System, the debate in particular is... (Marinika Tepic: Why did you shut me out? [[off microphone]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27607	Because you started replicating. Please continue in the spirit of breach of the Rules of Procedure that you suggest, or I will be forced to take away from you from the time of the parliamentary group. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27608	There's no need to threaten me with penalty measures to take my time. I didn't break the Rules of Procedure. I'm trying to draw attention because I thought when it first happened that it was an unintentional failure, when the second time it happened that you didn't want to, when the third time it happened, it was definitely clear that it was the start of the campaign. So don't do that, it's too restrictive for us, back to the amendments to the Budgetary System Act. It was quite correct to begin the debate within three hours, despite the lack of a resolute minister who would be the only one adequate to accept even the right amendments on the spot. That's why we don't get the message that he's away here, that's why he's not in a position to maybe listen to the explanation of our amendments that consent to accept and become an integral part of the bill. I ask you to return the debate to the place and to the level that is needed, not to make a positive campaign for Dragan Gilas, by attacking him. Don't do that again, it's transparent. It's transparent and it sucks for this parliament to do it, all together.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27609	Thank you. I'm not a colleague of Tepic's that totally understood. A colleague, Janjusevic, spoke about investments and mentioned in that spirit the investments of Dragan Djilas, so I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? (Yes) You do. Thank you. The word has been sent by the People's Parliament, Maja Vidinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27610	Vice President, I'd like to point out that you've injured Article 107, Article 27, not only have you injured, but I want you to listen and I want you to appeal not to allow such a thing. We are witnessing that this whole day conceived in the face of these violations of the Rules of Procedure as a way to prevent aggression, lies, accusations, spins, bribes, indictments against DS actually from allowing DS MPs to talk about how Serbian and Serbian citizens live. Not to mention that pensions are anti-constitutional, that we are not talking about a ban on employment going on, that we are not talking about all the devastating things that this budget provides, but about abuse, and that citizens need to know that the fact that SRS MPs have submitted amendments, actually the fact that they are mocking. It is not a struggle for their interests, but an inadmissible attempt to silence DS MPs and the opposition. You won't be allowed to do that, you won't be allowed to do something like that, and you will, if you allow it this way, so-called. replicas, which are all just not replicas, so-called. Infringements of the Rules of Procedure, which represent nothing more than brutal attacks on opposition representatives, you will be complicit in this and will not prevent opposition MPs from talking about the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27611	Thank you, colleague Vidinović. Of course, I don't want to, nor did I think I was stopping anyone. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. - Yes, you do. Thank you. The word is made by MP Veroljub Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27612	Mr. Chairman, I think you've been obliged to act in accordance with Rule 103, paragraph 9, the Rules of Procedure appear to me. First, in the previous advertising of the Rules of Procedure, and also in the one before that, not to say that the MPs of the SNS minority are called the poor, because we do the poor things. Now, I think there's been a breach of article 108. The Rules of Procedure because our esteemed colleagues from the DS want to make it impossible for us to participate in the work of the National Assembly. That's funny to her. They forbid us to speak in the National Assembly. They'd like to ban us from discussing laws. They'd like to forbid us to submit amendments. They'd like to simply ban us and go to the polls, only so they can beat us, if we weren't in the election. They think it's their privilege that we don't have, because we're second-class citizens, that's what they called us in campaigns. The citizens of the front row are citizens who support DS, so that's what you've been saying. That's what they'd like to do here in the Assembly. Well, you're not the citizens of the front row. There are no citizens of the first, second and third. There are citizens of Serbia they told you how much you have the right to discuss, they told you how many amendments you have the right to talk, they told you how much you can't rule. Because while you were ruling, you ruined everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27613	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. You don't want to. Thank you. (Goran Ciric: Replica. You have no right to a replica. This was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27614	If we agreed in the principle debate that the budget is the most significant legal act and we agreed that this budget has a minimum deficit of 0.6% in Serbia's history. If the level of duty is the smallest in the history of the last ten years, then we must bring all this into the context that such a budget is actually the result of one roof law in the fiscal order of the Republic of Serbia, and this roof law is the Law on the budgetary system of the Republic of Serbia. The law on the budgetary system of the Republic of Serbia, where I am investing in the amendment, in fact, defines the preparation, adoption, implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget, this is the budget we have been talking about for several days and which gives fantastic results on fiscal policy, defines the Fiscal Council of the Republic of Serbia as an independent institution that helps, both the Serbian Parliament and the Serbian Government, to make the budget look better and to define the extra-budging funds that need to enable Serbia's state to function as efficiently as possible. When you look at what we want to change. In fact, we change and talk about Article 2. The law on the budgetary system relating directly to Article 27e where budget rules, budgetary strategies and budgetary principles are defined. So, this whole context of the Budget Law, the local law, the Budget System Act, which is a roof contribution that the state of Serbia in its fiscal policy defined by the Republic of Serbia, works perfectly well, and the best evidence for that is certainly a fiscal deficit of 0.6%. With these amendments and, above all, with budgetary policy, fiscal policy, we are achieving the goal, which is a stable, strong and developed Serbia, and without fiscal policy of the Budgetary System Act, which is defined in accordance with European laws, of course there is no change.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27615	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. A colleague of Nemanja Sarovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27616	Mr. Marinkovic, I don't think so, and I think he's a injured member of 103. Why? Every MP has the right to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, however, he is indeed obliged to explain what the infringement is about. It shall specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured, but must in some way bring his exposure to that member of the Rules of Procedure which he claims to have been injured. The previous speaker, Mr. Veroljub Arsic, actually used it more as a right to replication. He talked about everything and everything. (Alexander Martinovic: Veroljub Arsic is not a previous speaker. ) Just for one thing, teach the SNS gentlemen not to earn while I speak. I'm just explaining the way the Rules of Procedure got hurt. I've determined which member was injured, and now I'm explaining to you how the injury occurred. The injury is that I'm being disturbed, and the Rules of Procedure forbids any speaker to be disturbed. I asked for the word neatly, he got it, so teach the SNS gentlemen what to do. The proof that Veroljub Arsic's wish was not at all to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You Rules of Procedure didn't hurt at that time as chairman, is the fact that he didn't even ask for an explanation. Now, there's, let me say, was this violation of the Rules of Procedure on your part, because you were obliged to give an explanation, that is to say, to realize that there was an abuse, and then to the SNS parliamentary group to subtract in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for two minutes because of this abuse. This is how they claim that they're forbidden by someone here, they're told they're forbidden to submit amendments. No, it is democratic practice and it is great to see that the ruling majority MPs have so many objections to the government's work, as many as 20 amendments to only one member of the law. Imagine how bad that government is doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27617	Thank you. Thank you for pointing out, for the potential violation of the Rules of Procedure, I believe that I did not do it because Mr Veroljub Arsic explained in his own way why he felt he was discriminated against along with some other fellow Members. As chairman, I am obliged to hear it, of course. Do you want the National Assembly to plead for the injury? (Yes) Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP of the people, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27618	Dear Chairman, I think there's been a breach of Article 103(1). The Rules of Procedure, which he says, shall have the right to orally point to an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, if he considers that this is not in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way, and immediately after the infringement has been done. So your discretionary right is to determine whether in my previous advertising of violations of the Rules of Procedure, I have really abused it. But in the meantime, a colleague of mine spoke, so Mr. Nemanja Sarovic had no right to harass us here for two minutes and you were obliged to tell him immediately. Now I'm going to tell you what reason it is. In 2010, Mr. Nemanja Sarovic declared himself a bankruptcy director of the SNS. Shall we read the stenograms? And while carrying out the bankruptcy of the SNS, he lost the mandate of a MP, who managed to return only in 2016. So I don't blame him. Four years is enough to forget the Rules of Procedure. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27619	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I don't think I hurt him. Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) You will get a colleague, just please do not turn this into a debate between the two of you, between you and Mr. Arsic, since you are advertising the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, that you do not have the right to replication. Maybe some other time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27620	Mr Marinkovic, a member of 107 has been injured who says the speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly and which prohibits addressing others with disrespect. Whether you heard it or not, whether you were focused or not, Mr. Arsic said I was harassing someone here. Do you feel harassed by Mr. Marinkovic? I used my right to comply with the Rules of Procedure, I spoke to the Rules of Procedure, and you yourself realized that I had not broken it in any way. Mr. Veroljub Arsic is the one with memory problems. During 2010, I was not even a national MP. I became a National MP on December 29th, as I recall, in 2010. After the 2008 elections, I did not take the mandate, so I could not lose it, and more importantly, a parliamentary mandate could be lost. It's no big deal, but unlike Arsic, I haven't lost my face and honour.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27621	Please, I'm not going to let any more of this really happen. It doesn't make any sense. Thank you. Veroljub Arsic: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has Veroljub Arsic according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27622	Mr. Chairman, Article 27. Rules of Procedure, but I don't blame you for these insults that have been made to me because Mr. Sarovic can't insult me. He can't insult me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27623	The People's MP Miodrag Lint submitted to the 1st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here's a colleague of Linta's. (Veroljub Arsic: It is beneath me to answer Sarovic. I beg you for peace, don't throw each other away, please. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27624	Since my amendment is about improving the position of Serbs in the region, I would especially highlight one target group. It is hundreds of thousands of expelled Serbs from Croatia, as well as tens of thousands of Serbian citizens, who lived in Croatia by 1991. The target group faces a large number of problems. I'll point out some of them. In the first place, the Croatian state kidnapped more than 40,000 tenants' rights, about 30,000 in Croatian cities, and about 10,000 in the former Republika Srpska region. The mechanism was very simple. Croatian paramilitary formations, Croatian police are threatened, threatened, pressured and violently kicked Serbs out of their apartments. I'm only going to give one example of this behavior. On the orders of Croatian Defence Minister Gojka Suška, 1995, a Serbian family of Drobac, Momir and Branislav was kicked out of Zagreb's apartment, and after that, former Croatian Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor moved into the apartment, who bought the apartment at a very low price of only 250 marks. Branislav Drobac, one of the two brothers, killed himself, throwing himself from the 14th floor. This is only one in a series of tragic examples, as Serbs passed in the 1990s under the Francis Tudjman regime. We have a lot of other problems, but I'll talk about them later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27625	Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27626	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, I propose an amendment to add to Article 1 a new position 3 which reads: "Planning, preparing, adopting and implementing the budget of the Republic of Serbia is realised to the greatest extent possible in the role of reducing poverty in the area of the Republic of Serbia." Given that Article 1 of this Act is deleted from the definition – indirect beneficiaries of the budget of funds, certain budget funds and translated them into a category of transfer accounts that are held in the vault with a direct record and a strict purpose, this amendment is not so attached to the Republic Government that has shown that it is making serious efforts to reduce poverty in the Republic of Serbia, but refers precisely to certain local self-governments that have shown that it does not care about what the funds are spent on and that, not only has it contributed to poverty reduction, but has left citizens from their local self-governments poor. Exactly, when we talk about it then let's talk about very accurate and accurate data. In the municipality where one MP was run here, the rest of the outstanding earnings of the archive "Veroslava Veljašević" 11704,000 dinars in 2015 to 2016, and the archive itself is owed by 15,000,000 dinars. The preschool facility "Chika Jova Zmaj" for unpaid earnings to workers remained a debt of 35,000 thousand dinars, transportation for employees of nearly 1,000, liabilities based on the sickness of 900,000 dinars, for severance and jubilee awards of 4.5 million dinars. At the cultural centre, the same president of the municipality left outstanding earnings worth close to 20,000,000, costs for the transport of employees only at that cultural centre for 895,000 dinars and a total debt of 27,000,000 dinars. Just to prevent these things is the objective of this amendment and a constant reminder that all levels of government must work to reduce poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27627	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27628	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, although these amendments are often called representatives of the former regime pointless, I think they are both meaningful and important. I wrote an amendment and handed over on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, which reads - Article 1 adds Article 3, which reads: "Planning, preparing, adopting and implementing the budget of the Republic of Serbia is realised to the greatest extent possible to improve the efficiency of financial institutions in the Republic of Serbia". I think it should be noted that all of the problems that the Republic of Serbia had with the adoption of earlier budgets. For example, one of my colleagues even talked about some of the funds planned to build some prisons. However, I have now read here in the 2012 draft budget law proposed by the former regime, also mentioning two criminal and correctional institutions in Kragujevac and Panchev. It seems to me that the representatives of the former regime were psychics where they plan to be their former ministers now, to live. Also, it's always said here that our public enterprises are inefficient and that it all worked so well while they were in power. Then we have, for example, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia gives "Serbia" 20,000,000,000 dinars to maintain the current liquidity. Now I'm gonna say why it's like that. Serbia's biggest debtors were local self-governments, including the city of Belgrade and the town of Novi Sad and the town of Pancevo, who spent the same gas. Gas was charged, i.e. heat energy, from Serbian citizens, but the presidents of municipalities and directors of heating companies shared the money on high wages by 2012. However, what surprises me most is that JAT Technicals is issued a guarantee of 526 million dinars to build Hangar 2 in order to accept and win over a new type of plane "Erbas A 320", at a time when JAT has seven "Boinga 737" of which only three are in an annual state. The other four were grounded and cannibalized. To explain what it means, parts of those four planes were removed so these three could fly. Then, although they have no agreement, no possibility, they plan to build a hangar for Erbas planes we don't have. They were so far-sighted, they took so much care of the country's financial system. And, now that they've made a hangar, they blame us for starting "Er Serbia" and getting ten planes flying for our national airline and then they say -- there are losses. Furthermore, in the same budget law for 2012, because they were still in power, the law was passed in 2011, it was planned for JAT Airways a billion and 52 million dinars for liquid liquidity, meaning, non-purpose funds to spend and cover losses that our national airline rules until they were in power. So, we'll submit to the amendments, remind the former gentlemen of what they were doing while they were in power. We will also make sure that some MP does not pay travel expenses from Vranj to Belgrade, while he is also a city councilman on the territory of the city of Belgrade. We will make sure that these things don't happen, because those who are so fair and professionally represented, they took that money from the citizens of Serbia, not to mention that when the funds were collected for the defence of the Hague indictees were only given to the daily, and they didn't want travel expenses from Vranja to Belgrade and back.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27629	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. The word is Milimir Vujadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27630	Thank you. To begin with, I am horrified by the fact that it is trying to ban SNS MPs from interpreting amendments and talking about some topics that have shaken Serbia during a previous period. I, first of all, lead the people of that people, I suppose our people say: the palm of the palm of the sun cannot be shut. Thus, the affairs that have shaken Serbia in the past 12 years, i.e. in the past 16 years, as the yellow company has managed Vojvodina, will not remain undiscovered. Of course, the aim of submitting this amendment was in itself to further encourage and strengthen the fight against corruption, and above all in the work concerning the implementation of the budget. Crime and corruption in themselves can often be fatal, even lifelike. The citizens of Vojvodina know that. We assume that thousands of Vojvodina citizens died waiting for radiation at the Institute of "Kamenica 2". Its construction began in 2008, and by 2016 it was never completed. The accounts were bloated from 16m to 35m euros, indeed, 19m euros more than was initially foreseen. Where and how these money ended, and today it remains unclear for the people of Vojvodina, but also for the citizens of Serbia. However, simply, when you root out crime and corruption from the budget and when you approach it responsibly, we come to the conclusion that already in 2016, after the takeover of power, the SNS and this business will end. Namely, I must thank the director of Kamenica publicly from here, Mr. Ilija Andrejevic, who, along with management, also made a full contribution to the Prime Minister of Vojvodina, Mr. Igor Mirovic, but also to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so now in "Kamenica" we have corrected all these failures. Licences have been obtained, this famous, or already happy "Kamenica 2" works in full capacity. You have two linear accelerators in it, and you don't have a waiting list anymore, you almost don't have a waiting list when it comes to lung tumors. Also in "Kamenica 2" post-operative intensive care began to operate with 11 places equipped with state-of-the-art equipment. Significant funds are also invested in the purchase of equipment, so that only the Vojvodina Institute of Pulmonary Diseases in Sremska Kamenica has received a new x-ray machine, three new bronchoscopes, an anaesthesia machine, a mechanical-chemical thromba breaker, etc. Of course, all of this has provided better conditions for providing health care to the citizens of Vojvodina and Serbia, and ultimately reveals everything that was in the previous period, i.e. non-rada, crime and corruption concerning the "Kamenica 2" project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27631	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Kenezevic. The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27632	Thank you. The objective of the amendment is, of course, to further encourage the development of infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia and for economic growth and development in Serbia, it is very important that we have a good infrastructure, i.e. to continue building highways. What would improve the area from which I came, which is the Shabac, would be building the highway of Novi Sad-Ruma, Ruma-Shabac. It is the Frushkogorski Corridor, which would cut across the Belgrade-Budapest highway, and a tunnel of 3.5km is foreseen. This infrastructure project is very important because by building it to Šapac, we would open up the possibility with the continuation of the fast traffic station Shabac-Loznica, and from Loznica all the way to Republika Srpska and create a traffic station that would be of immeasurable importance to the life of this region. First of all, I say it for security reasons, because it's a huge traffic burden, so the Shabac-Loznica road is called the longest street in Serbia, and also for the reasons of investor arrival, because already two investments have not come to Loznica precisely for reasons of poor travel infrastructure. Therefore, great support to provide funds in the coming year and to move forward with the realisation of this very important traffic station, because it is extremely important for this area. The former government has promised almost every election campaign and always deceived citizens when it comes to this infrastructure project, but from whom, of course, it does not surprise us. And in Sapac, for years, the city government has abused this project and always deceived the citizens, so last year, in Parliament, the famous master, the prominent DS official from Šapco, said he would build the highway in 2017. Please wake the man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27633	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. The word is Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27634	Thank you. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act, which reads: "Article 1 adds to Article 3 which reads: Planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the budget, so that the greatest possible improvement of equal regional development in the Republic of Serbia is achieved. “ A strategy of equal regional development, which will ensure even investment in all parts of Serbia, creates conditions for raising living standards and improving the quality of life of all Serbian citizens. It simply creates conditions to improve and improve the economic environment and ensure economic growth, as well as the creation of new jobs. The prerequisite is, of course, building infrastructure, which is the priority of this government, which we see by the specified funds for capital investment, so the completion of Corridor 10, 11, construction of highways, but also the rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing road network. What is the next step is the integration of these Corridors 10 and 11, i.e. the construction of the Moravia Corridor and for 2018 an innovation of the existing project, which will be in line with the spatial plan, respond to the picture on the ground and be in line with the Water Protection Project. I don't even have to mention the importance of this project for all residents on the move from Pojat to Preljina, there live about 500,000 people and this is really an important prerequisite for bringing investors, for greater availability and for creating new jobs and reducing unemployment. In parallel with the creation of a more favourable economic environment, it is also aimed at preserving existing jobs. I must mention one example of the first five-year factory, which welcomed the completion of privatisation with 120m euros in debt. So three times what the factory itself is worth. But the workers, in agreement with the Ministry of Industry, practically rented a hall and machines and continued production without a single day's interruption. Today it's a factory that has been operating positively for almost two years, paying off all its obligations, electricity, water, taxes and contributions. In the municipality of Trstenik, income from income tax is poured into the municipality and it is one factory that operates on a healthy basis, without even one dinar of subsidies, which it has previously received. On the other hand, it was a dedicated factory that was formerly a large debtor, a fourth debtor in Serbia, however, with a large pawn of Mr. Bratislav Gasic's factory stood on healthy legs, recovered and recorded a significant investment in last year, worth three and a half million euros, for modernising and buying new machines. It's all a prerequisite for promotion, for opening new jobs, for making new jobs and for winning new markets. No end of Serbia, no district has been forgotten. It is invested evenly and I believe that this key and what is necessary in terms of preserving the economy and reducing unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27635	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Dr Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27636	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System, Article 1(3), and all in the function of empowering the health system of the Republic of Serbia. What do I want to say when we discuss this amendment? In fact, opposition colleagues are complaining all the time today because we are proposing amendments. I'd just like to remind you that colleagues across the street submitted amendments last year asking for a safe passage for Santa's passage. The same colleague, who recently arrived, probably had jobs in Triestenik, often knows that he is afraid of even a toy drone, so he sees BIA. I know that he is obsessed with everything that was done in Krusevec during the previous period, and all thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic and Mr. Bratislav Gasic, who rebirthed not only Kruševac, but also Trstenik and all other municipalities of the Rasin County. That's why I'm not surprised that a colleague very often, when he mentions that he's supposed to do the prosecution on his case, he's scared and he's seeing a variety of drones. I can see she's red and ashamed, but she should be ashamed. But let me go back to my amendment - empowerment of the health system. I don't think the budget is bad, I think it's very good, it's developmental and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance and at all all all the members of the government have done a lot of things and that it's done a lot. The health ministry, above all, has done a lot in the previous period, that much has been invested in Serbia's health system, and we have witnessed, in a few days, the Clinical Centre in Nis is being opened, completely renovated and equipped as the previous yellow government and the yellow company failed to do it for all those years of government. But they now have some ex-post mind, but citizens have read it and punished it in the elections, and will only punish them in the next Belgrade elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27637	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? The word has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27638	Thank you. As just said, development is really important. It's important for the state, and that's exactly what this amendment is about. I, by the way, am just looking back at the words of the present minister who, on the day of the debate in principle, said, and when it comes to budget implementation, those projects that directly encourage development in Serbia deserve support. Among other things, through budget execution. He also said that the very city of Belgrade is a potentially good example of Serbia's excellent engine of development. I couldn't agree more. The city of Belgrade today, with great projects being implemented in it, is indeed. And when it comes to a project like "Biograda on Water", but also when it comes to the things we've been doing today. For example, when it comes to the fountain, which I mentioned was planned at the time of Dragan Gilas, the yellow tycoon and the ruler of Belgrade, amounting to 24 million, with those access roads, with passages below the streets. I must confess one thing, ladies and gentlemen, I've gone too far. It's not $24m, it's 27m in the first year. And another eight million euros next year. It's so planned that this project is at the time. On the other hand, someone manages to implement something like that for 1.6 million, so it's not only convenient, it's finished, it really exists, it's not just a colorful lie for someone's propaganda videos in pre-election time. Someone manages to make a huge number of facades in the city, someone manages to launch significant projects, such as hundreds of kilometers of plumbing, sewers, roads of different categories. Dragan Gilas, on the other hand, remains remembered for devastion, abuse and numerous affairs. And when someone says that we advertise him, when we mention him, here, let's show some width in that sense. He's not the only one who deserves praise and advertising on our side. Vesna Rakic Vednelic, as I recall, the mayoral candidate, can be commended in front of the Belgraders by taking part in the tribunes of the Separatist Vojvodina Club, right? Dragan Djilas, I don't remember doing this, but if he really co-operates with the congested Jankovic, he will be able to participate in the stands of Alexander Odzic, also the great leader of the separatist organisation "Vojvodjanska Party". In this case, Mrs Vodnelic and Dragan Djilas should explain together to the citizens of Belgrade why, in line with the political plans of their partners from these organisations, the New Belgrade and Zemun should be Vojvodina cities, not parts of Belgrade? I'm sure when he explains it, he'll get a lot of support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27639	Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. ) No mention of your party leader or Democratic Party is made of a colleague Bozovic. I listened very closely... (Balsa Bozovic: "Yellow Company". No, it's not, it's not, and I wouldn't give a line to it. Thank you for understanding. The word has been given by the People's MP Marinika Tepic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27640	Thank you, Chairman. I hope that within the framework of article 106, which I believe you have hurt in one part, I have advertised it the previous time that you should have warned the previous speaker or interrupted him in the presentation, even take away the word, but I must admit, when I have listened to his statement, you were right to not react and I am taking this opportunity to withdraw my previous advertising of the Rules of Procedure. I don't know if this is the way, since it was mentioned to Mrs. Rakic Vodalić. I would ask that he continue to mention it and that then for Professor Vodnelic, he makes an equally positive campaign for the Belgrade elections, not just for Dragan Dilas, as he set out in the first wave. I withdraw my previous advertising on the basis of article six, which I also tried this opportunity to advertise and I will not continue to object when Professor Vesna Rakic, from the mouth of Mr Orlic, mentions it in a critical sense, because that means she is on the right track, as is the New Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27641	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. You've pulled the previous injury. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27642	Thank you, Chairman. I'm sorry those movie fans left today's session, but my God. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment also provides for the introduction of a new stance. So, Article 3. The draft law on the budgetary system and it reads – planning, preparation, adoption, implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget is implemented to the greatest extent possible to be in the function of modernising the Republic of Serbia. It is clear what the objective of this amendment is. The amendment aims to further encourage and support the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia through a legal solution. A team before the government otherwise suggested that the second member be added words to several places - i.e. local authorities. I'm totally okay with it. So I think it is very important to modernise not only the state bodies of the institution at the republican level, but also at local level, municipalities and cities, because I think that this will increase the responsibility of local self-government. But I think it's most important that we increase the responsibility of officials in local self-government, that we don't get what happened to you in the future, for example. at the Smederjev Palace. In some unfortunate accident, a man, by the way, who likes to drink beer, is elected president of the municipality, with a total amount of circumstances, and then in just one term, in a very short time eats up the municipality, completely destroys local self-government, draws all the money out of the budget from both the municipality and the institutions, and even through the local football club. It's four billion dinars, as we've heard several times today. That's what can't happen to us anymore. Leave that town after its chairmanship and without power and without water in complete collapse. Leave the abnormal losses, minuses and debts, and then he comes here to the MPs' benches and more noises here all day and insults the MPs here. And today he was yelling at everyone here and nothing. That is what we must prevent in the future and that is the essence of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27643	Thank you. Radoslav Milojic after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27644	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Markovic, the previous speaker spoke completely falsely and I am sure that he was telling the truth that Mr. Ruzic, as minister, would react, because he was also my deputy, from the SPS he was also the president of the Assembly, from the SPS there were half the members of the council. So these are the flat-rate accusations for the purpose of the election campaign. I don't mind. As to who was working, the data suggests that from 170 local self-government, Aleksandar Vukic won in 168. He didn't win his local self-government. So how can he win when he's got a man like this to introduce him to people like that? But what is a set of circumstances, for the next local elections, SNS will lose in all local self-government, because they have devastated all local self-government, because they are harassing citizens of local self-government, because so far they have taken away from local self-government to show some surplus in the budget 50 billion dinars from citizens and citizens of Serbia in all local self-governments. So I wouldn't really talk about their community presidents, for example. from Subotica, to a man who beats his political opponents, about an expert from the King who opens a traffic light as a capital investment or the mayor of Novi Sad, who opens a bicycle parking lot as a capital investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27645	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. (Alexander Markovic: Replica. Direct mention twice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27646	I thank the chairman. You know, almost in my morning part of the debate, the tears didn't start, I'm an emotionalist, while the previous speaker mentioned an old, wooden, wasted house of his grandfather. So, I believe that's the way it is. But you know what surprises me in that story? I'm surprised someone lives in his grandfather's old, wasted, wooden house, and he walks a 1,450-euro shoe. Here, one media papraco says - Kena is walking shoes of 1,450 euros. "Dolce and Gabba" is the mark. It says -- men's shoes prices according to data on the official Dolce and Gabba website go up to 1,450 euros. All that Kena bought the cheapest of 245 euros, that's 29,000 dinars. There's a picture of him walking around. By the way, he's known for his debauchery life. A very deplorable life. It's a night out. Association with the starlets. Spending money from the Smederjevska Palanka budget. And then I wonder, how is it possible for him to live in his grandfather's old old wooden house? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27647	Thank you. Radoslav Milojic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27648	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, even from the time of the DS parliamentary group, let the previous speaker speak as long and as long as possible. This will make SNS worse and worse, and benefits will be given to citizens of Serbia. I know there's nothing we can hear about the amendments here. I know that here from the ruling majority of SNS we can't hear anything concrete that interests our citizens, which is that the SNS hired 70,000 party listeners and now you want to give them rewards and bonuses. Why? Well, because local elections are going, because you're going to lose local elections, because you have to kidnap and steal, not by one democratic way to get to election day. All that SNS does is rape democracy. This is not done in developed democratic countries. I'm sure you know that, too, that you know how local self-government elections are done, and I'm sure some opposition people do. We can also talk about cameras, for example, about the machinations bought by Minister Vulin and earned a million euros. Maybe that's where he got the apartment from. Maybe it's not his aunt's apartment in Canada... . [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27649	My friend Milojic, what does it matter now... It is absolutely unnecessary to insult in such a way and to use words such as rape democracy. I think it's an inadequate word. Thank you and please continue. Replica, Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27650	I thank the chairman. There is a people's saying. What a wise man is ashamed of, the other one is proud. That the truth is what I was talking about is proving a variety of images that you can find online. Kenna's proud of the pictures from the nightclub with all kinds of suspicious guys. This is a picture with one of the drivers of the famous Bentley who cut off President Aleksandr Vukic's column, but there are many more pictures. Although I must tell you, I have an understanding of his frustration. We spoke earlier, and my esteemed colleague, Orlic, brought payment data to DS account by DS officials. His frustration lies right now in that he was the only one who didn't pay DS money at the time. Even his protégé Paunovic from Paracino paid some money, and he was the only one not on the list and his frustration lies in it. So, as the People's Parliament says - if the Turk's blood is to the elbows, the Turkey's has to go to the shoulder. So today he must be more democratic than the Sutanovac and the Paunovic and all the others. Just one more thing when it comes to winning the Vračar – yes, the SNS won the Vrakar in 2016 in the local elections and it was a bright victory, a historic moment, after you destroyed that municipality in 20 years, as you ruled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27651	This debate is going in a very bad direction. (Radoslav Milojic: He showed my pictures. I really don't want it in high school. Thank you. We're going to the next amendment. Members of the 2nd Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SRS, MPs of the SDS – the People's Movement of Serbia, the People's MPs of the Independent Members' Club and the MP of the People's Parliament, Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27652	After a series of literary amendments that can't actually be amended, but it's such a descriptive state, it's also time to talk about amendments to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. What's interesting about the amendments of the government MPs? That the exact same amendments to the draft law supplementing the Budget Law for 2017 and these now are. The first law states that the implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget is realised to the greatest extent that it is in the function of that and that, and now instead of the implementation of the budget, there is planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the budget. So, exactly identical texts. And we repeat again, all MPs have the right to submit amendments, but what the MPs of the government are doing is making it impossible for the MPs of the SRS to talk about amendments to all the draft laws, especially the draft budget law. It is obvious that Serbia's public doesn't hear anything about the Republic of Serbia's budget in the details we could talk about. Article 2 means, where we have submitted the amendment, it refers originally to Article 23. The bill and that bill, namely that existing law, speak otherwise of funding the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, including financing the budget of public revenue and income, including from donations, transfers and EU financial assistance. You have now deleted it, so you have divided only into EU donations and transfers and financial assistance. We have suggested that you delete this proposal of yours, to remain the existing state to actually force you to do a report under this unchanged law, or a bill on the final account. We are convinced that precisely because of the existence of these donations, transfers and EU financial assistance, you are not actually proposing a final budget account, because you want to hide something from what is related to these EU funds. This amendment to Article 23 that you have proposed is, in fact, going towards that everything that has come from the EU as financial assistance at the level of the Republic has actually not had the treatment of public income and income, so we ask ourselves, and we ask you, what kind of treatment these funds have had. Where did they go, how were they spent, and why now do you want to hide them, if there are any?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27653	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27654	Thank you, Vice President. Few of these predecessors ruined my concept of what I was about to say. Of course, I wanted to talk about my amendment, and then listening to SNS MPs, I realize that this is part of a session where you talk about what comes to your mind. Well, it shows images, this one shows what was done in the community... . It's a very serious situation. Citizens have been reduced salaries, kidnapped pensions, increased taxes, increased taxes, destroyed any possibility that they live with dignity in this country, and your answer, gentlemen of the government, is to make fun of the National Assembly and to abuse the possibility of submitting amendments, to prevent the minister from hearing the solutions we offer, how this situation can be solved. We say pensions can be increased if you stop pouring money into your pointless investments. We say, you can raise your salary to the educators if you stop giving subsidies to losers. We say, young people in Serbia can be employed if you stop buying fake investments that you pay tens of thousands of euros per job, and on them Serbian citizens work 200 euros 10 hours a day standing behind the tape. We say, the money in the budget only needs to be deployed differently, not to worry about tycoons, brothers, godfathers, relatives, friends, members of the SNS, but to take care of citizens. We have foreseen this with our amendments, you are using your amendments to abuse the Assembly, to fight some imaginary enemies here, to fight corruption and crime, also imagined. So let's talk about the right amendments, not about yours, who serve only to abuse this home and make fun of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Someone whose pension has been reduced is waiting to hear that the pension can be increased, not to listen to your harassment, not to the MPs, but to the citizens, and you've been doing it for the seventh hour since this morning as the session began.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27655	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27656	Thank you. First of all, we need to bring the session here to the level of constructive debate, but also to the level of respect for the pre-respect of bonton when it comes to using certain words. Under the circumstances, I quote – mockery, not a word to be used in the tide, but it is a reflection of each individual and how much he has brought from the house. Secondly, when we talk about investment, so far we have had opportunities, until 2012 to see when there are no investments as poverty grows. So every economist knows, unless there's no investment, there's no growth, no economic growth, but there's no payout, no pensions, no non-productive professions, such as education, culture, health care. Therefore, we are dealing with a basic economic theory where there must be a new value, profit, a surplus must be created in the budget of public finances. It's the only possible investment. If someone doesn't want to understand it, then his problem is that the citizens understood it very well. They had the opportunity to see by 2012, they realized that this is not the way of healing from the problems that arise from taking credit and returning these same loans, that you are coming into a situation that you can't pay for neither pensions nor salaries, then they have really been identified for those who can bring domestic investment and foreign investors and thus enable the future of life in Serbia, both children and those who receive pensions and salaries. So what we have a chance to hear here today is that every MP does his job. This means that every MP, but every member of both the ruling and opposition parties, has the right to submit amendments. These amendments, if anyone doesn't like them, it's their problem, but today we show that we deserve pay.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27657	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Then Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27658	I wanted to give a brief technical explanation for the introduction, i.e. the separation of these terms relating to EU financial assistance. This is where the reason was purely technical. Earlier, it wrote in Article 23 relating to the financial jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia in one indent, under the number of 4 donations and transfers and EU financial assistance. Since we in Chapter 32, which refers to monitoring, or financial management, have specifically committed to monitoring the execution, or use of EU funds, then we are here because of the standards that we pursue and monitor just separated that order and inserted point 4a. So in the amended text of the law, you can see that nicely. It's the same text, it's just divided by 4 and 4a. This is in point 23 relating to the Republic and to Article 24 relating to autonomous provinces and to Article 25 relating to the local region. In the other two cases, the order relating to EU financial assistance has been added. We didn't change anything else. It's a simple introduction of an alias that allows for special monitoring of these funds. As we receive significant funds from the EU that are monitored. I think we should respect the same standards with ourselves. It's just been done for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27659	Thank you, Minister. The word has a folk letter from Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27660	Thank you, Chairman. I'm very sorry that you just made yourself not to see my raised Rules of Procedure, because I think for many reasons I wanted to advertise Article 107, because today it seems to me, indeed, a massive violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, because here we have heard about everything, about shoes, about various debts, about various spendings, about various people and existing, non-existent investments, about everything and about everything, we have not listened to about the budget alone. However, on the other hand, I am very glad that my colleague earlier said that all MPs have the right to submit amendments, that they should do so in order to earn their salary, because so far, we have mostly heard about how opposition to its application of amendments to laws only wants to block the work of the Assembly, not to allow it to be done right here, that we are putting up with these amendments in order to prevent the debate, to offend the ruling majority and MPs and the Assembly and the president, his family, etc., and to serve only our amendments. Now I'm very glad that you've submitted this number of amendments, because, first of all, you've proven that you don't like this budget at all, which you normally claim to be great, that it's fantastic, that it's the best in history, etc. If he's so good, why would he need a few hundred amendments for which, I'm sure you won't vote for yourself, and that we put up with amendments, I think it's clear that we always vote for our amendments. I believe you won't vote for your amendments, and if that's the case, we'll see it in the voting day. Don't be nervous now. There's gonna be a check on everything I say, so you're gonna have a chance to see if I'm telling the truth or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27661	Thank you. I'm sorry, I didn't see you alone. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27662	The chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, our amendments are constructive. Whether or not the government accepted them, at this point we heard from the minister a clear explanation and I believe most of my colleagues agree. But, as there is an improvement in the process and development, so do we want our amendments to be developmental, and time has been given to us and entrusted to the citizens of Serbia. When party representatives, who are just leaving, may sometimes be in this situation, have this much time, then they will probably also submit amendments. What we SNS say is, we have to cut off the funds for the losers you've made. We have to separate now for investment as much as we do, because we don't pour money into missed investments like you put money in your pockets from missed investments. Therefore, I would ask that the debate be constructive and that we also contribute to this budget, as well as to the development of Serbia, and not to waste time on such groundless discussions, as they say. What they had to say, they've been saying for 12 years. The people said theirs and now we're just doing our job. We want to improve Serbia, and that's what we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27663	Thank you, Dr. Raconjac. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27664	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this member speaks of donations and transfers. I'm sorry that "heinikana" came out, to see which donation and which transfer you buy 1,450-euro shoes, and then you talk about 150 dinar buns, even though it costs 15, probably a 90% commission counts. There's a people's saying, heavy feet under a crazy head. Regardless of the brand and the price of shoes, I'd be wearing shoes like that, and I'd keep my feet in the register, in the safe. Then he talked through donations and open transfers. In Palanco, he did not open anything other than a can of beer during his term, and what he opened cost the people of that municipality dearly. Donations, transfers, I'll list another copy -- about offspring, descendants, and what was it, an interview in time, independent journalism. I thought independent journalists would take the interview, etc., just commercials paying for it. However, it says here that the municipality of Trstenik, Signer Miroslav Aleksic, ordered an interview with Miroslav Aleksic in time for 144,000 dinars. It's probably the kind of donations and transfers that were used to launder money, probably the way those expensive shoes were bought, which I would keep in the safe, along with my legs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27665	Thank you. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27666	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment concerning the strengthening of the defence system in the Republic of Serbia. On behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I would like to give full support to the President of the Republic as commander-in-chief of the Serbian Army and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the fact that the Republic of Serbia today is more militaryly powerful than it was a few years ago. All Serbian citizens are witnesses of the fact that our army is better equipped today, that we have more weapons, more modern weapons and that we are absolutely ready to defend the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, the intensity of my amendment is to continue with such a policy. Serbia will continue to lead a peaceful policy, we are pushing for absolute stability in the Western Balkans region, but we are also deeply aware that the Republics of Serbia, as well as many other countries in Europe and the world, are threatening a number of security challenges and we must be prepared for these challenges. In that sense, we are deeply convinced that the planning, preparation and implementation of the Serbian budget, when it comes to the defence system, as we support the action initiated by the President of the Republic and the Supreme Commander of the Serbian Army, Aleksandra Vukic, to start with mass state-owned housing, that all those members of the military, the MUP and the BIA, who have so far not resolved their housing issue, can solve this issue in a very favourable way, buying apartments whose average value will be about 500 euros and not only in Belgrade, but also in other cities in Serbia, in Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac and King. In that sense, Mr Vujovic, Mr Djordjevic and all the other ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you will have the full support of the SNS parliamentary group to come up with the 2018 budget so that it can be developed, as it is, but to put a special emphasis on the defence system, to continue modernising Serbia's Army and to address existential issues of military, police and BIA members.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27667	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. The word is Balša Bozovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27668	Thank you, Chairman. What is the subject, Minister Vujovicu, is the way we ended the previous debate, for the simple reason you said and personally confirmed that pensioners do not have the right to the amount of pension, guaranteed the amount of pension, but the right to pension. You made that statement a few days ago, and you absolutely confused the public in Serbia, for the simple reason that those who were investing in their fund...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27669	I apologize to my colleague Bozovic, just to tell you that you are running out of time by an authorised representative, or deputy head of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27670	Thank you. So, a few days ago, you said, in this home, that pensioners had no right to a guaranteed pension no matter how much they paid in the budget during their working days, but you said they only had guaranteed pensions. That's what you said, there are stenograms, I can also give you a stenogram, and make sure you've actually broken the law, at the end of the Constitution, and the 2003 PIO Fund reform. You are calling for reforms, and you do not respect the reforms he has done, even for his time, the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, where we have said that is exactly the essence of the reform. Who paid as much as he did, he'll have that kind of pension at the end. And you said that you didn't apply for retirement even though you fulfilled your years for it, for the simple reason that you obviously don't live on your pension and you'll never live on your pension. Absolutely, if you've earned it, you have the right to do it, if you've earned it honestly. But they also made fair money, and people who have spent their entire life away from their salaries for the Fund, and now you're telling them there's no guaranteed amount of their pension. Now, that's demeaning, insolence, that's kidnapping, Minister Vujovicu. It's a kidnapping. Can we make a deal like this, Minister, because I see you are not aware of the extent to which you have violated both the law and the 2003 Constitution and the 2003 reform? Return everything to the people who paid into the Fund, give it back to them, and thus try it out with them. Say -- here, you have no right to retire, everything you've been paying for, we're paying you back now. This is the only way, and not to tell anyone – you have no right to a guaranteed pension, you have only the right to retire, and it is up to me as a minister how much pension you will receive. Well, does that mean they can get 1,000 dinar pensions? Does that mean it's a shame if someone has more than someone else, if they've gotten it honestly? You yourself know that these values are based on a modern world and modern society. (Alexander Martinovic: What does this have to do with the amendment? ) It has to do with the budget debate, which we won't be able to reach because the SNS doesn't want it, but you as a minister, while you're here, must either apologize to the pensioners of Serbia, which I ask of you, or explain that they don't have the guaranteed amount of pension, since the Serbian Prime Minister doesn't care, doesn't care how citizens live in 2018. Four days is not able to find free time to come and meet with the representatives of the citizens, look into the eyes and say – people, my plan is like this. They'll obviously get that kind of support from them. But since you're already here, and I thank you for that, you've made one dangerous statement that paves the way for kidnapping, anarchy and powerlessness. Does this mean that tomorrow you will enter private apartments, look into private accounts, foreign exchange accounts and speak to people – you have guaranteed as much as we tell you, and you will take as you took someone and retired? Minister Vujovicu, I know that the government policy of the Republic of Serbia was based on the lack of money, that all the incompetence of your economic pay policy was paid by those who made fair payments to their Fund. I know it, and you know it. It must be returned to her, it says in the Constitution, eventually. When you allow the Fund to issue a settlement on pension cuts, when they can appeal to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court will have to rule it out, and then some new government and some new government, like after 2000, will return everything that was lagging behind. And not only the difference, not only the difference, but everything that the citizens of the country are going to sue for, since they lost their health, that they lost the right to drive a car because they don't have to pay for their fuel, since they don't have any drugs, since they're getting increased mortality, because someone took something that belongs to them under the law, according to the Constitution of this country. Well, then you'll be different, I suppose, to talk about that thing. It may not be, in the end, fair or moral, after all you've done, that you're taking a pension after all, but obviously you don't have that need and that you don't live off the pension you'd take. You may take someone abroad, you may take a pension from the IMF, but retirement in Serbia is a pension that has been earned honestly by all the people who have worked and paid in the Fund for the whole of their lifetime. That's why this government should be ashamed, because at the weakest, the poorest justice, the failure of its economic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27671	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27672	I must respond to the words of the MPs and say that it is inappropriate in the first place for the DS to have the right to criticise the PIO Fund and all that is happening and all the debts that are going on. The Democratic Party and your President Dragan Sutanovac led to pensioners being damaged by 11.06% in 2011 and the government returning now 200m euros in damages done back then. The pension fund that was damaged during the year 2000 by promising pensioners and raising pensions to 2%, and nominally eating their pensions by inflation and devaluation, that's the story of it, but you can't fool pensioners. The pensioners know very well what you've been doing and know very well how many pensions they've been and how much they've fallen in time. The pensioners today what they know, it's that their pensions are safe and they're sure that their pensions will grow year after year. Pensioners are the ones who remember some time when you lied to them and told them some stories that had absolutely no reason. You gave them 2% increase, and on the other hand you ate them with inflation and devaluation. Well, do you really think pensioners belong to a group of people who don't know how to count? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27673	Thank you, Minister. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27674	Thank you, Chairman. I first reported by the time I had left, but I have to react now after breaking the Rules of Procedure. It's a completely incredible manner that has been applied here for days by government members over the MPs, no matter what side we sit on. In that regard, I believe that you have violated Article 27 and Article 108, i.e. members relating to the application of the Rules of Procedure and to the custody of order at the sitting, chairing. If the ministers, whether they're more or less important for their calling, or vice-presidential or non-presidential status, and there are no such ones here, as far as I can see, in relation to the government, you have to draw attention to them that their work here is not to reprove us. So, for the duels with the MPs of the opposition, there are MPs of the position. We are equal here and we are trying to cross our political opinions. The members of the Government are guests here, and the MPs have one of their basic powers – to oversee the executive body, or government, or members of the government. So, members of the government, or ministers, can only answer our questions, ask if there is anything else they should have answered if they have not done so properly on our previous issue, and lastly, not what they should do, but what they cannot do, is rebuke the MPs here, especially the opposition, to give political speeches. It's a pattern I didn't think would apply, but it's been especially strengthened by the Prime Minister since she was elected, and especially the other day when she also participated, very briefly, in the budget debate. The minister can't do that. He can answer the question, but he cannot rebuke the MPs, from any party to come. There's another side to that, not you. You're not the other side here, you're counting on MPs here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27675	Thank you, colleague Tepic. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, because you've made a mistake and you need to study it a little bit better. Because when ministers come here as promoters, they are not guests, they participate equally in the debate. Mr. Zoran Djordjevic also reported that as someone who has the legitimacy to talk about pensions and everything Mr. Balsa Bozovic spoke about, since he was in his portfolio and the PIO fund. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? Yeah. Thank you. The word is Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27676	Replication to Mr Bozovic's presentation. When we talk about pensions, then we have to repeat, so that the citizens of Serbia don't forget, that 50% of the PIO fund came from the Republic of Serbia's 2012 budget when the SNS took responsibility for state-leading, today is 32%. This means that with our positive economic policy, we have managed to save so much money that they have wasted in a senseless way, and this waste has gone to such an extent and to this extent to pay off pensions, to raise loans. Imagine if some people in their households took out loans so they could simply live. It is simply economically not sustainable and this kind of policy, and especially social giving, cannot exist in Serbia. That's why citizens and pensioners just gave support to Alexander Vukic in 2014, because he was extremely open and honest about the economic situation in the country, that there is a hole in the 250 billion dinar budget, that there is no possibility of paying off pensions unless the economic reforms that are now yielding results are implemented. These results were indeed to be established in one country and in one system that was completely demonized by those who teach us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27677	Thank you, Dr. Tomic. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27678	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment should also be considered and the discussion of counterpart Martinovic should also be considered. I especially like the part where they say everything in Serbia is not to be done, and all under the pretext of caring for Serbian citizens. In the past few hours, they said that the Republic of Serbia should not invest in railways, so they said we should not invest in roads, so they told us that the Republic of Serbia should not take care of our airport "Nikola Tesla", so they told us that we should not invest in the economy, so they told us to shut down all businesses, so they told us that we should have an army that would protect us and defend the poles. Now, if we don't invest in railways, I'd remind the gentlemen that the United States has become the most economically powerful country in the world just because they were the first to connect their business centres with railways and that domination they achieved 140 years ago, they also have today. Then let's not invest in roads, and they, for everyone's sake, their parents left the place where they were born in Belgrade or Novi Sad or Nis because they didn't have a way to the house where they were born. Well, let's not invest in airports, and I think, how old he is since the Wright Brothers first flight. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, those of the former regime lead us to the Middle Ages. They say there's no fuel for cars, they say something to someone. We stopped our paths, not our cars, we stopped our roads while you were in power. The highway from Saturday to Belgrade was launched by Slobodan Milosevic. How long did you make it? So you broke in with the Kalashnikovs when Marija Raseta Vukosavljevic gave concessions on one lane of highways, so you made highways in the fields, you didn't bring them together. From field to field. How did they expropriate? Not to talk about the railroad. There were now guarantees from 2012 here. You're in charge of the state. So where's your score? Their biggest success in the railways -- they think it's the same tram and train, so they only invested in Spanish trams, where as many millions of euros have gone missing. Now they're taking care of the pensioners. I have to ask a question – do pensions come from companies that work or from loans? According to them, out of credit, but not from those credits that they will raise, but from those credits that they will owe us all, that they may bring us back to the Middle Ages, that they may be the authorities, and that the rest of Serbia may be farmers. It wasn't 12 years that they took us safely into the European Union, but in the Middle Ages. If they had at least a little honor, they wouldn't be saying things like this, they'd try to fix something, not accuse it. (Zoran Krasic: They played with mobile phones. ) They wanted to sell Telecom by cell phones. They've ruined it so much that it's worth no more than 300-400m euros, something that's been made for 50-60 years. Now they're telling us how the state should be run. You've ruined everything alive, everything you've reached. Here, I see, some people are making fun of what I'm discussing. Well, it was easy for them to mortgage the apartment in favor of DS. Well, how many apartments did they earn from dishonesty while DS was in power? What kind of love is that? Well, you don't have love for a foreigner, or for a state, just according to your own pocket and politics you deal for your own pocket.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27679	Thank you. The word is Sonja Pavlovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27680	Thank you. Mr. Arsic, if you want to run an analysis of the current and previous authorities, then you have to do it the way it is. First of all, we don't care about that anymore. I said that once before. The responsibility is here and here, and you have to accept responsibility for what you're doing right now. Don't get away with it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27681	Mrs. Pavlovic, I'm sorry, please, you're in the replica now. Just state why I'm and which member I hurt, how I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27682	I'm sorry, you've hurt Article 106. The speaker can only talk about the subject we're currently discussing. So, Mr. Arsic has to talk about the amendment we're discussing, he can't give speeches here. The most important thing is – pensions are not earned, pensions are earned. So no one should get a pension, pensions are already earned and don't insult pensioners in Serbia. Don't give us any more comparative analysis. Take responsibility for what's going on right now, you're the one who's leading this country now, so let's talk about it now, talk about the budget and get to the budget at all. It's extremely inappropriate to deal with the past. You have to take that responsibility, no more drawbacks. I can quite honestly say that, I don't belong to any authorities, to any former or present, whether I belong to the future we'll see, but I don't want to listen and no one should listen to excuses. Pronunciation is not the answer. Let's look for a new way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27683	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure, given that in any case in a debate like this, I am trying to give the opportunity to all MPs to really say what they think, as Mr Veroljub Arsic did. Now it's your perception whether it was strictly about the subject or not. Mine's not like that. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? Yes, you do. Thank you. The word has Marinika Tepic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27684	I thank the chairman. I ask that in the future, as you have already commented for yourself, you make this perception that it is equal for everyone, and when the MPs speak to the government, when we speak on this other side, because I am calling for Article 103, Section 1, for which I have the right to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have just warned me or my colleagues about the terms we use, because of some of your inappropriate words used here, and I believe that you were obliged then to make previous speakers in a specific case, because even then I immediately reported to the MP Martinovic when he is telling the truth or perhaps the truth, but by the wrong terms, when he says someone will get or someone will give him the right to buy an apartment for a price of 500 euros per square. So, these apartments...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27685	Now you're abusing the Rules of Procedure. What does mass housing have to do with it? This is now a replica to Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27686	No, no, let me explain what your injury is.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27687	Don't, please, so this is really an obstruction. Let's move on, Veroljub Arsic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27688	Mr. Chairman, I'm talking about the injury of my colleague's Rules of Procedure, who spoke before the Marinika, related to Article 103, paragraph 8, which can be interpreted as a kind of replica to my exposure, and could have been a nice colleague to notice that, for example, inflation in 2009 was 11.7%, that in 2010 it was 6.5%, that in 2011 it was 11%, that in 2012, was 7.8%, in 2013, 7.8%, in 2014, 2.9%, 2015, 1.9%, 2016, 1.2%, projected inflation for 2017, 3.1%. The exchange rate of the euro five years ago and exactly four months ago was 119,80 as it is today. She could also say that, for example, for Bulgaria, she had to go about about 50 or 60 times...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27689	A colleague of Arsic, you are now a colleague of Marinika Tepic, the one about housing, you about inflation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27690	No, no, don't, let me finish the exposure. I have rights, I want no such thing as, please let me finish my exposure. That, say, South Corridor 10, the southern leg, four or five years ago was a one-way trip, and now it's a highway. That the east leg was a one-way road is now a highway, that we have 35 kilometers of a new highway and that I don't count. So that's the responsibility we have, which someone didn't have while running the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27691	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. Balša Bozovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27692	I thank the chairman. So, once again, let's just do it again. Minister Vujovic, your silence on what you said a few days ago that pensioners do not have the right to the guaranteed amount, but only have the right to retire, has made me quite uneasy, for the simple reason that every man who worked fairly throughout his working life paid a certain amount into the Fund and he has the right to a guaranteed pension, according to a 2003 reform of the pension system. It is the first democratic and reform government of Zoran Djindjic. I want you to know that your silence will lead to the fact that many of them will unfortunately die in the meantime and have no right to what they've worked on all their lives and what they've spent their entire lives proudly earning. So you can't keep your mouth shut, even if you apologize because it's not about robots, it's about living people.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27693	A colleague to Bozovic, just one moment. So, I'm sure of it, and I know that you've read the amendment and you know what it's about, and I've let you in this first part of it talk both out of it and out of it and out of pensions, thinking that it's part of a broader debate on the budget, a country's economic strategy. Since the ministers are here, come on, please finish asking for an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27694	The bottom line of my proposal was that when we don't have a president, or if you don't already have a Prime Minister who will find it appropriate to come and discuss all the amendments, and that he will eventually apologize when he finds out that you've made a mistake or that you apologize if you've certainly said what he is, and the stenogram says that he is, that you simply disrespect those who have been honest and honest with each other all their lives. They can't get a pension, it's their right, it's their property, otherwise give them everything they've paid for and paid off during the lifetime into the Fund, so let them transfer those funds to some private, that's how to dissipate. That's fair, but you can't shorten someone's life rights he's acquired, his property. That's what the modern world is based on. That's what civilization is based on today. Otherwise we're in anarchy where you're going to enter someone's private account tomorrow and say, you have the right to an account and savings, which is what we're going to tell you. So it can't be done, Minister. It can't be done in the IMF or the World Bank. Well, then he can't go to Serbia either.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27695	Thank you. The word has Dr Dusan Vujovic, minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27696	I read the Constitutional Court statement from the session held on 23 September 2015. Not to read the whole statement, and I can, I'll just read you a sentence that I had in mind when I said what I said. So this – The Constitutional Court considers that, in paragraph 3, the Constitutional Court considers that the initiator’s claims are established that the pension acquired under the law represents the property of the pensioner, but indicates that the Constitution does not give rise to a guarantee of pension giving in a certain amount, because the restriction of property rights under certain conditions is allowed both under our Constitution and under the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and so on. In other words, take any property, say, inherit the land. The value of this land depends, no one will touch you right to this land, but the value of this country, its ability to generate fruits, its relative value depending on other things, let's just say, whether there's a path or an urbanally otherwise done, does not slow your right to the ground, but affects the value of that property. The same thing the Constitutional Court had in mind when he said, you were entitled to retire, but since he's in the system, please, I listened when you spoke. So I wish this could all be done, so this is what they brought, this attitude before pensions were increased, first it was brought before the first increase of 1.25% and second increase of 1.5%, and third increase of 5%. So this is a principled attitude. If you want to go to the Constitutional Court again, go ahead. I'm just saying, based on the Constitutional Court, it's something you're saying. I don't want to talk right now, and why you're speaking that tone, I don't understand it, but that's what I meant when I said there's no guarantee of the amount. So pension is like property, but when someone gives you property, book entry and so on, it doesn't guarantee the value of it, nor can it guarantee the value of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27697	Thank you, Minister. After the minister, I think the debate is over. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27698	I thank the chairman. Dear members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act which I will explain. So, an important part of the budget system is to provide an adequate financial basis for the judicial system. I would remind you that the Constitution stipulates that politicians can no longer replace judges. The continuity of the judge’s office was confirmed, i.e. once the elected permanent judges were no longer obliged to go through the reelection procedure and the permanent judge no longer elected the National Assembly, but were chosen by a special body composed mainly of judges by the High Council of the judiciary. In 2008, however, two laws were passed, which had complied with the provisions of the Constitution and I played the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and allowed DS to make an unremembered cleanup among judges who had ever been recorded in Serbia, all under the rule of law, which was only a front for the creation of a judicial authority that would be directly controlled by the DS. The destruction of more than 700 decisions on the non-election of judges has cost our country more than 30m euros in compensation for damage to reputation and honor, suffering fears and shame, lost earnings. As a result of the worst judicial reform ever, the political accounting of the DS with its inexplicables was enormous according to the Republic of Serbia's budget. A good financial basis for the judicial system prevents the politicisation of the judiciary, which is the objective of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27699	Thank you. The People's MP, Zarko Micin, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Zharko Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27700	I thank the chairman. Dear Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is also about investment and I wanted to increase the importance of investment and planning investment in the structure of the budget. For investments in the 2018 budget, 128 billion dinars were planned and I think it is indeed one significant amount that is even 30% higher than it was planned in 2017. I'd like to point out, he's one of the previous speakers, otherwise the former president of Smederjevska Palanka municipality, mentioned Mayor Milos Vučević, and said he opened up some bicycle parks, like that's negative, that's something to be embarrassed about, right? On the other hand, I have to mention, you know what, I don't know if he opened bike parking lots, but I know he opened two factories that employ 3,000 people today, and they're going to hire 5,000. I know he laid the foundation stone for a music ballet school, which is almost over. I know he laid the foundation stone for the emergency building that's almost finished. I know he laid the foundation stone for the tv building that's bound to be finished, too. On the other hand, you know how, he wasn't doing exactly what that former president of Smederevska Palanka municipality was doing. He saw the budget as his little pig bank. Well, how's he doing? He was just taking, taking and taking from that budget, and he came up with innovative ways to take. I think this best shows the State Auditor's report, i.e. the State Auditing Institution for 2012 for Smederevska Palanka, which says that this municipality president was used by the City Football Club "Jasenice 1911", which has no club bodies, watch out, and has registered players and established a sports organisation City Football Club "Jasenice 1911", as an indirect beneficiary of the budget and through that institution, paid out premiums and scholarships, and a daily amount of 300,000 dinars was raised, and now watch this, checks without cover. According to auditors, through this institution only in 2012 without foundation paid 14 million and 494 thousand dinars and three million dinars, as an experienced athlete, otherwise the president of the municipality continues with this practice, so he also paid 30 million and 289 thousand dinars without legal basis. For example, on behalf of the distribution of funds to clubs without criteria, he assigned the Centre for the Development of Sports and Amateurism, as many as 29 million 788 thousand dinars. He was generous to citizens' associations, and so in 2012, he was without a public competition and without a contract on the implementation of selected programmes... A grant to citizens' associations of five million 559 000 dinars. Also, the DRI report says that the top president of the municipality in 2012 without credible documentation of the resulting change from the Smederjevska Palanka municipality's budget, that he spent 110m, 260m dinars. That's how that previous speaker used to do it. I think he really should be embarrassed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27701	The People's MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 2nd amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27702	Thank you. My amendment refers to improving the position of the most vulnerable social groups, and this is when I refer to the group belonging to the old population. For SNS, the attitude towards old people is a relationship between the maturity of a society. The Republic of Serbia and its government show all maturity, both in economic and social policy and in relation to the oldest and most vulnerable of our citizens. For SNS, of course, all citizens are equal in the exercise of their rights, regardless of their social material position. The Serbian Progressive Party does not divide citizens into rich and poor, as the regimes used to do, as representatives of the regime from 2008 to 2012. What do I mean? For the first time, this government recognises the need to equate the position of old people in socio-materially at risk who do not have enough resources and who need to be cared for in social protection institutions. For the first time, this government recognises the need and provides funding for the distribution of the Ministry of Labour and Employment and Social Policy, worth 204 million, to address the 904-year-olds issue, which under the same conditions, as well as the conditions for housing in state homes, will be placed in private homes. In this way, old people get to meet, and private homes that are licensed are given the opportunity to complete their capacities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27703	Thank you. By amendment, Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27704	It remains pleasantly surprised by the ability to write amendments from colleagues in power and their open criticism of the work of the current government, as otherwise there would be so many amendments. I think this amendment is good, regardless of what the motionary will not vote for it and it is very important to protect the elderly. I think we'll agree that it begins, first of all, Mr. Minister, on these unfortunate pensions. It's very unusual for you to explain that people have the right to a pension solution, and they have no right to know what their pension will be. These measures, the consolidation of the temporary, which lasts for four years, have damaged the relationship between pensions, between different pension groups, although they are not there, but they have reduced the differences, which cannot be done by any law, especially not by temporary ones, which should be consolidated. It's acquired law. If someone has a 26.4% higher pension than someone else, then it has to stay, and you've disrupted it permanently with these measures, so your comparison with the ground is completely pointless. It is true that the price of the country, to be measured on the market, is also true that the market depends on what kind of government it is towards the country, which is the level of stability, prosperity it gives. You are absolutely right that it is perfectly logical that with such power falls both the land's price and the price of the apartments, although never at 550 or 380 euros per metre square, but pensions are falling. Don't make excuses. There's no excuse. As it has been proven to be 25 billion more than 16 billion you found six years ago, it is also true that you have permanently disrupted relationships, and that, above all, affects our senior citizens as far as this amendment applies. Otherwise, the Fiscal Council is the same to you regarding the state of all our citizens, including those of the elderly, told you that in this budget, except that you didn't use a lot of money in the budget to return your pensions to what is the legal obligation of the state, and that's what the Fiscal Council report said the other day. Late, of course, as well as the draft budget, but they probably got it too late, so I'm giving them an excuse for sending us late, so they don't allow transparency. That's what you and I agreed on about those Chinese loans, that there are no reform measures for the public sector, and that's how our old citizens are threatened. No reforms are carried out in the public sector. Of course it's a flaw and disrespect of the budget calendar, which is obvious. And they say the economic relationship between pension insurance contributions and pensions has been broken for four years, without your intention to change anything. Also, this draft budget has damaged the budgets of local self-government where pensioners and our old citizens also live. We're asking for an amendment to return five billion to that part of the budget that goes towards local self-government, but you refuse. Therefore, take into account the justified sharp criticisms that you have received from the MPs of the government and constructive serious objections through the amendments that we from the opposition, we from the New Party, from the Club of Independent MPs have sent you. Pull back a little bit with your colleagues, then make a new draft budget. We'll forgive you for being late on the calendar, but at least adopt something that makes sense. This is how it's going to be a typical SNS budget, came overnight, adopted overnight, and what it produces -- darkness, darkness, intransparency, black time for its users. That's not what Serbia needs. You don't need that as a recognised economic expert, either. I hope that neither to colleagues who have given amendments today, who are aware that no function lasts forever, nor to the function of MPs and will ask you, all of us, but also to you from the position, the authorities, what you have done, why you have allowed this black time to continue, especially at the time of the golden age of the Serbian budget, when there is as much money as you want. How much money do you want when you have a budget item of 3,000 dinars to protect children from discrimination? Of 3,000 dinars, not Kuwaiti, Serbian. Who's talking about that money? Why aren't there any medications in hospitals? Why is there no money to repair the highways, where you have those holes on your right lane in a thousand miles? Why doesn't he have the money to finally finish and this Slavia, I don't know who's paying for it anymore? Why is there no money to come, finally, to know what's being earned, who's making money, who's paying taxes, and what's that tax being spent on? You can give us whatever big budget, 2,000 pages, with a font that's 1,0001 millimeters, that won't change the essence. It's hypocrisy, we lie to ourselves, especially you. So listen to these legitimate criticisms that you receive from the MPs of the government, and I recommend to colleagues from another part of the hall, from the authorities, that they demand that this poor government be replaced and a new one be chosen. I also have a concrete proposal. Since he is highly doubtful, I do not, but some still suspect that the president of the state has been elected, as I know he has not been elected properly under the law, that he resigns as president of the state and that he is running for president of Serbia again, so that we can endure these few months more, and then we have beautiful regular elections where Serbian citizens will have the opportunity to choose something normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27705	Thank you. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27706	Thank you. It's almost amazing how the former regime's representatives, i.e. until 2012 have [[Alexander Martinovic: This is a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27707	I didn't hear him mention it by name and last name. (Alexander Martinovic: Direct mention. He was amazed at how we write the amendments. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27708	Yeah, yeah, I was mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27709	All right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27710	Mr. Chairman, only if you can, give me my time. And I was mentioned to agree with my submitted amendment. It's almost amazing what we heard from the former regime's representatives, the regime that ruled from 2008 to 2012. Dear citizens of Serbia, particularly pensioners, you have borne a great burden on our reforms from 2012 to 2016. But the time has come for you and your employees in public institutions to live better. The point, as far as the pensioner is concerned, is next. From 2008 to 2012, the regime four times increased pensions without any real basis, in debt and taking loans at high interest rates, which went from 6-8%. Of course, these loans remained, and we had to repay all of them, returning all of Serbia's citizens. The government did not care that all Serbian citizens would return and did not care that pensioners and their children were in additional debt, but were only interested in having something to say in the 2012 pre-election campaign. All they have to say is pure manipulation and pure deception of citizens, especially pensioners. I must point out that since 2012 60% of pensioners, those with the lowest incomes, the government has absolutely not reduced pensions. [[Marco Djurisic: How long does this replica last?]] Now 86.6% of pensioners will have higher pensions in January 2018 than in January 2015.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27711	Thank you. I only gave my colleague back the time I personally took away from her, so she had every right to do so. [[Marco Djurisic: How does the replica last so long?]] (Srbislav Filipovic: Don't bark there, Đurisic. What the hell are you barking at? Marko Djurisic: Did you hear what he said to me? No, I didn't hear. (Marco Djurisic: Did you hear what he said to me? Don't throw it away. (Marco Djurisic: I don't throw.) He said to me, "What are you barking about?" Are you going to punish him now? I didn't hear that. I'll look for notes to see who told what. I can't hear everything and see, colleague Giursic. You've entered the O.R. very nervous. You started throwing both me and the members of the ruling majority at the door. I don't know why. I'm just asking for a little peace, to give who's next, and that's Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, to speak according to the amendment. Replication of the party - SNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27712	The mention of the SNS in the exhibition that was meant for us as a party to actually have eaten Serbia's pensioners by carrying out economic reforms and now we have managed to reverse the public debt trajectory in a positive direction in general and to lead to the fact that you have not only increased pensions in that nominal part, but also one-off payments that, believe it or not, in this year only 5,000 dinars cost each pensioner 88 billion dinars from Serbia's budget. Therefore, with these one-time payments, we practically come to the fact that the lowest pensions came to over 50% of the pensions they receive during the year. When you look and add, indeed, over 61% of the pensions in this year have received more than they have been reduced in the course of economic reforms themselves. What was tried to do, and apparently succeeded in carrying out a fair distribution in raising pensions. That was the hardest, especially at a time when you have to implement fiscal consolidation in Serbia's budget. Well, that's why we're responsible, and we're not ashamed of it, because we think it's the perfect and proper way to heal public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27713	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27714	I love this story of pensions, and who increased or reduced pensions, as only one government reduced pensions, which is the government of Aleksandra Vukic. All other governments increased pensions, firstly, in accordance with the law, following prices up to a little, as was the case, and a one-time increase in 2008, when pensions of the average dropped below 50% of the average wage, which was a legal obligation to keep pensions above that level. Justifiably or unjustly, we can talk about it politically, that it was done because of the elections, was not done for the sake of the elections. It was done three months after the election, in September 2008, and the elections were in May. And, financing at the end of 2012, when the government left and your first government arrived, with Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, Minister Mladjan Dinkic, left you 47% of GDP, 15.7 billion euros. You managed to make that debt to 24 billion euros in two years, 77%, and then as a measure, you took a number of pensioners to cut your pensions by 20 and 25% and more, and then the minister comes and says - pension is right, but not the amount of pension. I'd like to, Minister, since you've been paying foreign pensions, to see where you've been paying for someone to come to you and cut your pension by 25%, would you say – well, I have the right to retire rather than the amount? I believe that you know very well what amount of pension you should get where you were paying for it, and here you come and say – pension is right, and the amount is not right, and then the bill is right to cost something, but I will pay the amount as much as I think it should. Is that the legal state you're building? Are those reforms? You're the generator of the gray economy. Today everyone will tell you in Serbia, the employer – let's make a deal, pay me the minimum, give me the difference on my hands, and that's why you can't deal with the gray economy. Over a third of the profits in Serbia are paid out of the gray zone and you know it. This government is a generator of the gray economy. You took care of your electoral body, first of all. You scare them with a story – Aleksandar Vukic guarantees a regular pension payment. The only time pensions weren't paid was when Vukic was with others in the government in the '90s. When was that one pension late since 2000? Eighteen pensions brought back that DOS power, 18 pensions that you've spent in the '90s and now you're selling here a story – we're keeping the pensions safe. No, you're destroying the pension system because people today know that no matter how much they set off in the pension system, that doesn't mean that as much as the law says they're going to take a pension at the end. You knew that the only way to get away with it was if you put that pension change on top of a temporary character in the title of the law, and then you suspended it, so it's going to last forever. It won't last forever. Another government will come and pay back your debts.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27715	Thank you. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27716	I really don't understand the fire in your testimony and the systematic refusal to face the 2015 Constitutional Court resolution. Now I'm going to read a little longer explanation. The Constitutional Court found that the contested law follows the introduction of intervention measures taken to preserve the financial sustainability of the pension system under the economic crisis, which specifically means the possibility of regular pension payments. In this regard, it was of particular importance that the prescribed measures do not apply to pensioners whose pensions are established up to 25,000, which, according to the court's data, have more than 750,000 in the Republic, and which, given the total number of pensioners and pensions in Serbia, actually means that the largest number of pensioners does not cover the prescribed measures. In view of the fact that at this point, the lowest pension established, in accordance with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, amounts to just over 13,000 dinars, at that time in 2015, and for farmers of 10,000 dinars, the Constitutional Court estimated that, protected by an amount of 25,000 dinars on the real economic occasions in which the company is located, the contested law provided for the custody of the economic security of pensioners, which is the constitutional order set out in Article 70(2). The Constitution. When it comes to pensions covered by the Law on Designed Measures, the Constitutional Court considers that what you say is 22 and 25%, that the basic claims made by the initiator are that the pension acquired under the law represents the property of the pensioner, but indicates that the Constitution does not result in a guarantee of pension giving in a certain amount, because the restriction of property rights under certain conditions is allowed both under our Constitution and under the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. According to the contested Pensioners Act, whose pension is higher than 25,000 dinars, pension payments are made in a reduced amount, which is undeniably a reduction in their assets and therefore the court has examined whether the law meets the conditions allowed under the property law. Starting from the fact that the prescribed measures are regulated by law, not by an act of lower legal force, and that the law does not touch the pension right, that the measures are prescribed to achieve a legitimate objective and that it is not the same for all pensioners at a reduced amount for persons with lower pensions, which is achieved precisely by the percentage of the reduction, it is not the same for all pensioners more than 25,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27717	Thank you, Minister. Alexandra Tomic reporting for word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27718	Replica. There are several factors that have led to great debt when we talk about pensions. We can't forget that. First of all, when there was an increase in pensions at the time of 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 went cumulatively. This means that a certain percentage was applicable to at least pensioners and top pensioners. When you're basically increasing a five-time pension greater than the one that has the smallest, you're essentially giving the biggest five times as much as the ones that have the least. That's why you're making a huge social breakdown. On the other hand, the 2008 Euro course was 76,2693, in 2009, 92,77, 2010 in 106 dinars, 2011 and 2012 reached 118 dinars. By playing with course, protecting, not making money for them and their companies, they have thus ruined the value of raising pensions, and you have once again impoverished those same pensioners. So don't tell lies that don't stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27719	Thank you, colleague Tomic. The word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27720	It's not an injury, I'm speaking on the basis of Article 32. You have probably failed to read the Constitutional Court decision that Minister Vujovic spoke of in time, and it is important for the public to know. When the Constitutional Court decided on the constitutionality of this Retirement Act, the Constitutional Court is...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27721	Excuse me, are you speaking by amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27722	No, under Article 32. Rules of Procedure. Look at what it says in that article, so I don't waste any time on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27723	Here you go, but tell me what I hurt, how I hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27724	Wait till the end, be patient. The Constitutional Court has done something that is absolutely inadmissible and let it be 100 times the Constitutional Court, cannot be accepted, no lawyer can say – it is okay to make a decision of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court then said it would not decide on the constitutionality of the law because it is a temporary character, and it is a scandal unseen. So it can come to a person's mind and pass the law that killing on the street is allowed and that it takes two months, and the Constitutional Court will say – since the law is of temporary character, we will not decide on it, so for those two months whoever survives. So, don't appeal to the Constitutional Court's decision because it's narcissistic and because it's the opposite of the Constitution, but make it a nice return to people's pensions and never tell them again what you said on Friday that pensioners have the right to a solution, but not the amounts.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27725	Thank you. The People's MP Vesna Rakonjac submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27726	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment which is part of the 2030 Strategy for Sustainable Development, which is particularly relevant to the application of national social protection mechanisms. To never repeat what happened again in 2008 when the DS segregated against military pensioners, so we had to pay back their debts by a judicial verdict of 57,000 military pensioners of 21 billion dinars, just as much for court costs. It doesn't hurt them, the chairman, this budget, that he's developmental, or that he has that kind of character. They don't give a shit about anything that's got military omens, so they don't give a shit about buying apartments with benefits when they're loans to military people, cops and members of the Justice Department, or workers to carry out criminal sanctions. That's what they get measles on. Those years were to destroy everything that had a military omen, to be drowned. If it kept going like that, there wouldn't be any shovels, no sticks, that my colleague was talking about. And what about the military boats and the police equipment, we saw in 2014, when we were supposed to save Obrenovac. There were no shovels to fill the bags with sand. Another beautiful patent of theirs, which is the new model of the work of Jelizara in Smederev, where the basic raw materials were used, and these were tanks. Unfortunately, the tanks of the Republic of Serbia, so now we have to separate resources and strengthen our army and equip it, rather than raise more salaries and pensions, because they did so and it should be their honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27727	Thank you, Dr. Raconjac. The word is Marko Djurisic, according to the amendment. (Marco Djurisic: Replica. ( b) Replication to Dr. Rakonjac's presentation? (Marko Djurisic: Dr Tomic mentioned me. ) She did not mention you, colleague Đurisic, nor Mr Boris Tadic, nor the Social Democratic Party. (Marko Djurisic: I didn't even mention the SNS...) It is. Marko Djurisic: I did not. I was talking about thieving power. You can get the word after the amendment. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go. Marko Djurisic: Give me your word. Give me about the thieving power. You know that's the way I don't want to talk to you. People's MPs are getting it. I ask the People's MPs for peace and not to earn each other. It really doesn't make sense. I'll give you back your 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27728	There were words about the amendment and about pensions and accusations that the Democratic Party, beware, accused that the Democratic Party has increased pensions and salaries. I think it's something we can certainly accept, and when it comes to destroying the pension fund, it seems we've forgotten. We're not even pensioners who are now suffering the challenges and solutions that we've made here, in this room, about the temporary reduction of wages and pensions. So we were against it, and now, as we were against the policy that led to the destruction of the pension fund. In 1993, hyperinflation destroyed everything that people paid as their contributions to ensure their future. Civil wars in the '90s took and spent just those pension funds. And we're keeping it quiet here now. And you're accusing the Democratic Party of returning the remaining 18 pensions after 2000 for raising pensions in 2008. Well, of course she did. And of course she was coming back. As it will return and raise the standard of citizens in Serbia in the future. So, one completely absurd accusation against the Democratic Party, and as far as we're concerned, we will support your amendment, in order to maintain the socially insensitive groups. One of the most sensitive is pensioners, who have reduced pensions and who live on the edge of social sustainability. We talked about this because we want to talk about both the current average salary and the current minimum consumer basket, which is not enough and that lowers below the poverty line around 8% of the population in Serbia, about 100,000 children, and I think that's the key responsibility of all of us in finding a solution. Otherwise, once again, we accept that kind of accusation that the Democratic Party raised pensions the way it raised salaries, from the average salary of three to five euros or marks in 1993 to 30 euros in September 2000, which was later raised and I think it's something that could be of the Democratic Party's pride.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27729	Thank you, colleague Kiric. The word has Mihajlo Jokic after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27730	Just to explain to the citizens how you increased your pensions – by selling state and social assets to the Buddha why you were filling the budget and sharing pensions with them, instead of using that money to rebuild and create new factories. On the other hand, let me explain. No one's pensions are down 22%. Pensions are down 11%. Because the first 25,000 are the mains guarded. So that amount over 25,000, it's down 22%. On the other hand, when we go to the relative increase that will be this year, I hope it will be next year, then those absolute differences that existed again, because with the same relative increase to different principals are again creating the same or equal absolute differences. And we could do that because we reduced our pensions, that we returned the principal, that we made the conversion of debt, that we reduced the interest rate, that we increased the time, that we reduced the number of capitalizations. Whoever knows the theory of credit is clear to him. So, if you guys had continued the way you did, after you sold everything and had nothing left to sell, the pensioners would be in a position not to take a pension. This is the way of resuscitation, renewal and they will receive an even bigger pension in 2018, here, remember. And that difference that existed, it will come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27731	Thank you, Dr. Yokic. The word is Alexander Chabrai, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27732	I thank you, Chairman, for seeing me this time, when I reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Article 106. We've been talking about pensions here for a long time. I think it's very good, and that pensions should be discussed, and pension cuts and pension increases, I think it's very important for the citizens of Serbia. But we shouldn't be talking about pensions here today, we should be talking about the budget, and I'm afraid we're not even going to the budget law, which is the most important, as you know, the law of the year, concerning all Serbian citizens, and not just the pensioner, but to talk about everyone anyway. I have a nice proposition for you. In fact, we, in those additions to our agendas that you say, are constantly trying to block the work of the Assembly, to speak against the ruling majority, against President Vukic, etc., we have a lot of proposals that concern pensions. So I was going to suggest that you adopt one of these, say, laws, so that you put it on the agenda, so that, let's say, one day we spend, all day, at least one day, on a pension debate and then talk about pensions, and that today here, and the next days, we try, if we can, to get to that budget that is so phenomenal that you, not only have submitted hundreds of amendments to that same budget, but that we at least try to get to the debate on that budget, so that we can talk a little bit wider, not just about pensioners, but literally all of Serbia's citizens, because all of Serbia's citizens are concerned with that budget. I have a very legitimate fear that we won't be able to reach a single member of that budget at all to touch, let alone article number 8, which basically contains the entire budget. To get to that member, I suggest that we conduct the pension debate another time, and now go back to the budget and those amendments and those laws that we need to discuss here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27733	Of course it was a subject, considering we were talking about the rights of old people. They are by standards and the EU... (Alexandra Chabraya: You did not ask me if I wanted the Assembly to plead? ( b) Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself? (Yes) Thank you. The word has Veroljub Arsic after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27734	By amendment to my colleague Marinkovic and just to inform you that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are final, executive and general binding and that they are all obliged to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court in accordance with their powers, and that means the MPs. I can't agree with my co-worker who spoke a little bit about hurting the Rules of Procedure because this is the last chance and the MPs of the opposition and the MPs of the former regime to talk about pensions. So, the last chance to talk about pensions is because Serbia in the next budget is going to discuss a budget law in which pensions will not have any reduction, but even greater and even more drastic increase because we have managed to measure fiscal consolidation and recovery of the economy and the recovery of transport infrastructure from Serbia to create a place for a better life, unlike those that have brought us back to the Middle Ages for 12 years. So, don't mind your colleagues that your colleagues in the opposition of the former regime want to discuss pensions, let them go, this is their last chance. When there is no more, we are talking about pensions, and I must remind you that the laws of fiscal consolidation were passed in November or December 2014, that in the meantime we had parliamentary elections in 2016, that in the meantime we had local elections in 2016, that we had presidential elections in 2017 and that they also had such a devastating debacle in the elections, because these same pensioners felt security when the state and government, then the government and now the state is headed by Aleksandar Vukic. That's something you can't argue with. So don't defend the interests of those who don't support you. How will you be supported by a pensioner who gets a pension increase of 2% or 3% and the euro jumps 10 or 12 dinars or even 16 as it was during your government? Well, that's not gonna vote for you ever again, so forget it. And you're right when you say that one day we're gonna lose the election, but I'm sure it won't be from you and you won't be there to watch it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27735	The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27736	Thank you. My colleague Arsic, I have never really been in power, nor have I made anyone sick, nor have I damaged anyone, nor have I challenged any of your exposure here. I don't think you've listened to me very carefully, even though you've replicated me. This doesn't have to be the last chance to talk about it. You can put your pensions on the agenda and any pension law, so we can really talk about it, so that it's not at the expense of not talking and not being bickering about the most important law of the year, and that's the Budget Act. I am very concerned with the Budget Law and I have submitted the amendment and I have various amendments that I think are very important, among other things, to make this budget transparent in several ways. Unfortunately, I don't have enough time to talk about it, but obviously I won't have a chance at it, but you're not right when you say this is the last chance to talk about it, it depends solely on you. In fact, we keep trying to put such questions on the agenda and such laws on the agenda, but you're the ones who don't accept it. So, I don't accept anything from what you said, or that I've abolished someone's pensions, or that I've ever been in power, or that I've destroyed anything in the state. I really don't know, when you noticed that I was in power, I'm in opposition for the first time now, let alone in power. So, I'm asking you to allow us to discuss it, you yourself said it was very important.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27737	You've wasted your time, thank you. By amendment, Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27738	Let's get some more, 'cause there's more to it than that. Both on the subject of pension and on the subject of what the Fiscal Council said, and what is obviously very interested in all possible branches and debtors of the "yellow company" and the parent company, so that they do not get angry. As for the opinion of the Fiscal Council, I am now reading it, the opinion on the budget this year says – one of the most important goals of fiscal consolidation, low and long-term sustainable fiscal deficit, has been achieved in the 2018 budget. That's what they say. Furthermore, they say, on the topic of local self-government – a space for tax relief of the economy has been used, which is probably a good thing, i.e. to increase the untaxable amount of earnings, which the Fiscal Council assesses positively. So much for their criticism. Next, the projected increase in public investment is desirable, according to the Fiscal Council again. The macroeconomic assumptions and forecasts of income and expenditure are generally good, and GDP growth is likely to be greater than the forecasts given. Budget revenues well-designed, corresponds to expected macroeconomic developments, budget expenditures objectively projected, and budget spending may be less than planned at the end of the year. All of this is said by the Fiscal Council, which, by the way, suggested that when restrictive measures were introduced, the measures would be even more drastic. Did you agree with that then? There's something I wouldn't say and I don't remember. But another piece of news for those who claim to have never threatened the country and spread faceless untruths. They did, and they put it at risk, and it says, where wonders, that exact fiscal advice. It says, their position is, noting the importance of balancing fiscal flows, which removes the threat from the country's bankruptcy, for which they often use the term – the public debt crisis. On the subject of pensions, those who literally mutilated military pensions, it would be better not to speak a single word, not only at this session, but not at any of the following, and no matter how many of them are in this assembly of ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely right fellow Arsic, it will be the last chance for many here to talk, not just about pensions, but about anything in the National Assembly. After the next election, whenever they are, they will see the National Assembly only in "The Week of Parliamentaryism", when they will come here as guests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27739	The word has Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27740	These constant threats, the finger and threats that no one has the right to speak because, well, he dared to increase pensions or raise salaries through his responsibility in power, and the constant accusations that DS has increased pensions is something we accept. I also told you where the source of these problems is. We saw the position of the Fiscal Council, and you'd have to set your own criteria the way we talked last time. Since, among other things, at this session, it is the subject of the talks and of what was inherited by the DS government after 2000, but also of all the next governments, of resolving debt and declaring it an old foreign currency savings that people have been saving for their future for years. They were first spent in 1993 in hyper-inflation pension fund, spent on civil wars that were being waged in the country in the 1990s. They were then deprived of their right, and they were told that their savings were no longer theirs, and they can't afford it, we declare it a foreign savings, and all of this was to be served to this day, when we will also discuss the law. So, these are the responsibilities of you as a continuation of the SRS that participated then in the government, and you were part of the SRS, along with the SPS in that government. Because of such things I do not call you, nor do I take the right to say that you do not have the right to talk about these topics and how rights you will probably answer, but I think it is very important to start first of all from your own responsibility, from your party's responsibility and coalition.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27741	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27742	I'm reporting for a replica because in a negative context the SRS is mentioned. You know, when a state is under sanctions, when there's no possibility of communicating with international financial institutions, then the state gets along in various ways and that's the legitimate right of all those who were in power back then. I have to draw attention, when you came to power in 2001, no matter what methodology you applied, you did a few bad things. The first bad thing is that you convinced the people that the SFRY was taking foreign loans during the sanctions. She didn't take any credit marks. The last loan to SFRY came in 1988, if not earlier. Secondly, you were then thanks to the student Mr. Vujović, who is named Mladjan Dinkic made one non-violent arrangement, giving birth through the G17 Institute, whose founder is Mr. Vujović and Mirosnka Dinkic and then negotiations with those two clubs were based on the principle of putting out our domestic banks, to open the space for foreign banks to enter, to execute zeroing, and even today, bankruptcy with these banks is not over and will not be completed for much longer, there is open room for foreign banks to enter. You're all victims of foreign banks today. As far as pensions are concerned, please, since 2008 in February, there is Momo Colakovic and some others, when talking about what, moreover, what if there is no money and what if the law allows some increased rights. How does that problem work out? And that problem was sort of solved, but please take care of it. I fully understand that you need to criticise, but today in this government sits the PUPS, sits the SPS, sits Rasim's party... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27743	Thanks, time. Replica, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27744	Thank you, Chairman. When we talk about the Fiscal Council, then we always have to read from beginning to end what they say. When we talk about the Constitutional Court, we're talking about the verdicts they made in relation to retirement. Both, if we don't like it, we have to be extremely honest and rational and say how things are. If we compare 2007 to the labour price, which at the time was 55 dinars per hour, according to a 79.9 course, it said it was 0.68 euros. Today, in 2017, 10 years later, it is 1.18 euros. It means there was something going on. It means that the SNS has led a responsible policy, that it has created new jobs and, based on the creation of new jobs by increased production, means by creating a new value, you get the opportunity to simply pay off all the costs you've had and which you found at the moment all the loans, all the debts, and now to train your public finances to have a secure payment of wages and pensions in the future. That is the most important thing to say to the citizens of Serbia, not to scare them that it is simply impossible and that it no longer exists. Don't scare the citizens of Serbia and pensioners with lies that don't stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27745	The word is Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27746	The Honorable President, the Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, I am appalled by today's debate on both sides. I would pray that, a million 715 thousand 938 pensioners, we do not insult. Today, from the debate, I experience it as a pensioner, the basic problem of society back 20 years, are pensioners. That's not true. Please, in that sense, I have also made an appeal in the principle debate, that we are talking in a different way, that we are using data in a different way and that we are very clear and precise. We have documents, which are in the debate today, the budget and the other laws, supported, and we have said why. And, among other things, we suggested how and how the oldest population, which made the biggest contribution to consolidation, and therefore we gave support to the then prime minister, Mr. Vukic, out of the situation in which he was found. But we differ in the fact that we are not asking to increase the deficit, but in the context of the proposed budget solution for 2018, to find a more correct and fairer solution. In that sense, we have pointed to many problems in principle. Another thing, please use precise data. I brought them out in principle debate. Please, in 2008, it is true that pensions are consistent with the law and increased by 10% overtime, but in 2009 and 2010, pensions are frozen. In 2010, 2011, 2012, pensions are not in line with the law. In 2014, 2015 and 2016, we know how it is. If that's the case, and if we say the pensioners made the biggest contribution, then let us respect them. As possible, we insist on what the minister said, to find the most favourable solution. These are our suggestions. My appeal once again, I ask you to stop this discussion at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to pensioners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27747	Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketić. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27748	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, so I have submitted an amendment to Article 2. The law on the budgetary system, which defines certain terms in this law. These terms concern, above all, direct and indirect beneficiaries of budgetary resources, and the beneficiary of the mandatory social security funds, the Fund for Health Insurance, but also defines certain terms, such as the financial plan and public funds. This is very important, because the amendment I have submitted, which primarily speaks about more efficient local self-government and more efficient budget spending of local self-government, concerns exactly financial plans. For example, in the municipality of Prokuplje, during the rule of the former government, a large number of financial transactions were carried out just past the financial plan. I think we are the only municipality in Serbia, and perhaps in the world, where the City Waterway has raised credit, and in stock for that loan, it has pawned the water factory. In 2010, the City Waterway concluded a long-term loan agreement with the KBC Bank of Belgrade and was subject to a long-term loan of 50 million dinars, named after the deadline of 11 November 2020, and interest, imagine, 45,744,989,55 dinars. So, for 50 million loans, it's almost twice as much money. What is particularly, significant, or significant, is that as a stock for this loan is the Bresnica station filter, 413 square meters area, with all machines, technical equipment, station filters, what they include, hostage, chemical dosing equipment, field filter, water disinfection equipment, clean water tank, laboratory equipment, etc. So, the heart of the Water System of the Municipality of Prokuplje, where water is supplied to about 70 and over 70% of our city's population. All I can say is that this is exactly the amendment that I imagined, and I wanted to establish a valid financial discipline in local self-government, so that this would never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27749	Ljiljana Malusic, an MP, submitted to the 2nd amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27750	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the ministry, the honourable MPs, my amendment reads – planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget is realised to the greatest extent possible to improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia. The amendment aims to strengthen and improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia through a legal solution. In fact, education is one of the priorities and focus of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The aim of the SNS is to create young, capable people who know they are thinking, who are making good decisions, who will stay here to work and contribute to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, not young people who want to benefit, as former provincial Prime Minister Bojan Pajtic and regional secretary for science and technological development Dragoslav Petrovic, who have been throwing away money from the Fund for Technological Development, by sharing 35m euros for subsidies to private businesses. Instead of using these money for young researchers, for buying computers by school, they delivered to schools, you will not believe, 21,280 single-part siphons at the price of 38,419 euros and schools another 21,280 two-part siphons at the price of 70,437 euros. It's a shame. All special schools were delivered another 5,370 siphons. It is about one siphon per eight students, a horror, or about 90 siphons per primary school. This is so sad, it's sad. We build schools. We promote education, raise wages, and they sell syphons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27751	The second amendment was submitted by Krsto Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27752	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment to the development of the economy, so the law that supports economic development to the greatest extent. I'll give a diameter through "The Iron" Smederevo and the image of the opposition-placed economy. When you melt in the Iron Tank, did you get the product of the steel you wanted? Yes, it is. Did the workers receive any pay? They did. And what did you melt? The tank you have to buy tomorrow. Did you pay off your pension? How? From a loan, from an expensive loan. Could we have opened up a factory at the time and created some value to make this pension real? No, we'll be in debt, and then we'll pay off the pension, and then we'll increase it. And what do we do when they don't give us more credit? Then we'll sell the property that's worth it, and we won't open new factories. No, it wasn't philosophy. Put a house in the chair's stove leg, are you warm in the house? Yes, it is. But where are you going to sit? Order a leg from the table, it's warm again, but where will you serve lunch? Aleksandar Vukic had another philosophy and joined new jobs and companies that are just creating a new value. For example, this new value today creates "Boš" in the Caves, will create "Kromberg Shubert", a German autocomponent producer, where two and a half thousand people will work in Kruševec, create "Delfaj" - 3000 people in Novi Sad, the first factory after 30 years in Novi Sad, "Jonson Electric" in Nis, "Leoni" invests in the fifth factory, "Cumtobel" from Austria for ice lighting, "Aster" in Žitora new plant for 160 workers, "Jasaki" in Šapac - 1700 people, "Griner" Vlasotince - extension of production, more accurate expansion of production plant, "Fos" Surdulica, PK Smederevo, "Ametek", "Ametek", "Norma" Subotica, "Tiger taers" Pirot – extension of production capacity, Mita Obrev. Investment in Serbia's dedicated industry, where we allocated 50m euros from the budget this year for development projects of Serbia's dedicated industry. And, to mention, in 2012, in the dedicated industry, it worked 8000, and today it works 12,000. Exporting in 2012 was 154 million, and in 2017 it was 500 million. Someone had an idea to melt "The Iron." Alexander Vukic and the Chinese president had another idea. Today, “The Irons” melts the raw materials that need to melt, and with that raw material and all the debts that those who teach us have made for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-11-0.u27753	Thank you very much. It's nineteen o'clock. We're done for today. We'll continue tomorrow, 10:00 p.m. [[The session was suspended at 19.00 hours.]]
