ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25174	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the third session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 104 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 133 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for today's work. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25175	Thank you, Chairman. I would ask the first question of the defence minister and the foreign minister, and it is about the fact that in Lebanon, where 177 members of the Serbian Army are currently deployed, there have been strained relations and announcements of a possible war. Since I repeat, the Serbian Army has engaged in the United Nations Mission 177 soldiers, I think this Assembly, which sent these people so far from Serbia, should receive information. I think that, President, it is also important that you get involved from your place, and maybe you schedule a Defence and Home Affairs Committee, where ministers would give an answer to MPs what is going on in Lebanon, what is the situation among members of the Serbian Army and whether there are plans and what are plans if the security situation deteriorates, about how the state of Serbia plans to protect its soldiers. I really expect that we are not waiting for me and the other MPs to respond these maximum 15 days, but to get that answer in the coming days, and perhaps best for the president to schedule a session of the Defence Committee and call the ministers to hear from them at the scene of what is happening, what is the situation and what are the plans of the Republic of Serbia? The second question is for the Prime Minister and the Transport Minister, although I think that various others could be involved in giving that answer, which is - when will the Republic of Serbia recognise that the project "Er Serbia" has failed? For five years, we have been listening to the decision to take a partner with whom a new national airline, which is 51% of the property of the Republic of Serbia, but management was given by a foreign partner and for those five and four years, each year, "Er Serbia" has done tens of millions of euros in losses. The last thing that says that things have come to an end there and that there is no more way and the idea of how to change it, to get some positive results, is the fact that in early November 340 workers "Er Serbia" were taken over by Belgrade Airport. People who were engaged in the acceptance and dispatch of planes and passengers paid by Air Serbia have been transferred to work at JP Belgrade, which is reportedly going to charge for the work of Er Serbia. These people have saved jobs, but unfortunately, I am almost certain that Belgrade Airport will not charge for this service "Er Serbia", as it has not charged many other services and thus indirectly, illegally, non-transparently, the subsidisation of "Er Serbia". Now about three, four million euros a year, about what they are likely to pay grossly for these workers, will not be invoiced "Er Serbia". "Er Serbia" will then show a minor loss in its books, and may again try to show some gain. The winnings are shared by a foreign partner with the Republic of Serbia. So, when are we going to stop this waste of state money in private hands? When will the citizens of Serbia be told that the project "Er Serbia" has failed? When are we going to try to build, if at all possible, a national airline that meets the needs of Serbia and its citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25176	The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25177	A question for the minister of construction, traffic and infrastructure, Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic. The construction, traffic and infrastructure ministry of Serbia has filed criminal charges against 14 responsible persons by the Prosecutor's Office, headed by former Minister Milutin Mrkonjic, and is related to Ub-Lajkovic's share in Corridor 11. The 12.5km-long share, of which, according to the minister's statements, 4.5 is not operational due to a failure in implementation. The stock is fully financed from Serbia's budget, which translates into financing by Serbian citizens. Whether the accusations of Minister Mihajlovic are justified, we will leave to the competent judicial authorities to deal with them. At this point, we are interested in whether the coalition conflict over the disputed Ub-Lajkovac is another one in a series of staged, in order to get an excuse and distract the public from the delay of works on Obrenovac-Ub shares, i.e. Lykovac-LJig? The announced deadline for the completion of the works on these shares is November 2017, so here these days. My questions are: will the deadline on these shares be respected? If the deadline breaks, why are there late works on the listed shares, and who is responsible for the delay, if it comes to it? A question for tourism and telecommunications Minister Rasim Ljajic and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. It has not been a strike in the "Serbs of Serbia" for days, and this must not be ignored in parliament. Employees of the Post Office of Serbia sent a message from the protest to representatives of the authorities to return what they claim to have been kidnapped. They say their salaries are lower than the Republic average and are dissatisfied with the management of the company. Government promises don't believe it. The question is, what is the real nature of the problem in "Serbs of Serbia" and when will be called a competition for the director, given that V.D. Principal Mrs. Petrovic expired two months ago? A question for the mayor of Belgrade, Mr. Sinisha Mali. We still don't know which complete idiot in Herzegovina Street crashed at night, but it's quite certain who makes life worse for the citizens of Belgrade today. Mr. Sinisa Mali made a statement at the opening of Duke Stepe Street in due time – hang me if I make a mistake in Slavia. A terrible rhetoric, because the citizens of Belgrade are not savages and of course they won't hang him, but he was wrong in Slavia, Pioneer Park, Roosevelt, Brank Bridge, Kosančić's Wreath, Skadarlia, as well as "Belgrade on Water", which is justifiably suspected of becoming a accumulated city with Atlantis. He made a mistake, and he made a lot of mistakes. He also made a mistake because he let his waist down the water. He made a mistake because he believes Serbia's citizens are naive and are unaware that money from the budget is pumping up in Belgrade. He also made a mistake because he believes that the Belgrade citizens are naive and that they can be as a serious reconstruction, the city's revitalisation accepts the simplest construction works that make a lot of money, consisting of some sand or concrete as a base, some granite plates, and hopefully also a plate caldrum, some bit of grassy carpets, a couple of wooden benches and a lot more than anything, new year's decorations, for which in the last three years there have been inadmissible four million euros for the purchase and reparation of the same ones. For example, the budget of a Barbarian is about that much. As a national MP, as a citizen of Belgrade, and professionally as an architect, I believe that such mistakes were not earned by Belgrade, and that Serbian citizens did not deserve to pay for pre-election nervous attempts by the city authorities to do all they had not done in the past few months. For these reasons, I ask Mr Sinisha Malom – why does the city administration not deal with the fundamental problems of Belgrade, as well as with the contractual obligations undertaken for "Belgrade on Water"? Does he wish for defeat in the Belgrade elections in order to leave all the contractual commitments to the new authorities as hot potatoes, cutting off funds from the Republic's budget, which are now coming in? Question for fellow MPs Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic, 20 July 2017 by decision of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, I am asking the question – please Mr. Martinovic for one of the answers offered, why has this working group not yet started working? Under a) will never begin work, because the conduct of MPs in the Assembly is an example of positive parliamentary behaviour, will never begin...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25178	Thank you. The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25179	Thank you, Madam President. My question goes to Minister Sarcevic and REM as an institution. Namely, they are related to the unloved events of peer violence which, a little bit, shock Serbia, and what has now happened in Arangelovac, especially since the guilty were girls of 16 years of age and things have leaked to the public through social networks, through cell phone footage, was an additional shock. So, the first question to REM, since the girls said that they found their inspiration in reality and that they imitated reality, my question – how many more children will have to suffer, get beaten, humiliated, so God don't commit suicide or get killed and stay disabled so that REM remembers that they need more reality, if they don't stop, and then at least transfer them to that space that's being broadcast after half the night when children should be in bed and sleep? As for Minister Sarcevic, who is Minister of Education, I have a few questions. In view of these unloving events, and that he said justifying all this, inexcusable, rather than justifying that there was a very reduced number due to the austerity of pedagogicals and psychologists, because the IMF asked for the reduction of funds for these profiles in schools, was he taught by this example in order to prevent further unloved events to ensure that the draft budget envisions an increase in money, an increase in financial resources for the engagement of educators and psychologists who should be an integral part of each school and to deal with the prevention that is essential? I would also like to know on behalf of the Serbian public what measures have been taken, what has the ministry taken and what has the minister personally done? The story of forming a working group in which the ministers would be, or representatives of several ministries, solves nothing. I will refer here to Winston Churchill who said – if you want to postpone or do nothing, then form a task force. Forming a task force here won't help. In this case, we should also work on prevention, including schools, directors, parents, children and society as a whole, and of course the media. What hurts a lot is that we had a little Alexa accident that put his hand on herself, because he couldn't take any more humiliation and peer violence, back in 2011. What happened in the meantime? Meanwhile, while his mother struggled to pass Alexa's law, which speaks about the prevention of peer violence, the law was not passed. Imagine, the whole case is out of date, and in the meantime the principal of that school, who apparently knew about everything that was happening to that child, was punished by 50,000 dinars of fines. So what I'm saying is that these criminal measures, which the people would say, after the death of the stew, are really humiliating. What we need to work on, I repeat, is prevention, is the inclusion of social work centres and the overall education system and certainly the carrying of responsibilities, first of all, ministers, ministries, class elders, parents and eventually children.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25180	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25181	Thank you. Dear President of the Assembly, I would like to ask the Department of Justice a question, since we have witnessed back a few weeks that the Ministry of Justice together with the Ministry of Health has provided transport means for homes of health, ultrasound for homes of health, and all this through agreement between the prosecutor and the party in the process where the party in the proceedings, i.e. the defendant, has paid funds to the Ministry of Justice for voluntary purposes. This helps the homes of health in local self - administrations. We're like the local self-government I come from, from Svrlig, got a van transport for the needs of people going on dialysis. That means a lot to our local self-government. I would like to ask Minister Kuburović – will it continue in the next period of this ministry's activity to help the homes of health in this way? Today there are health laws, where many of our fellow MPs, who are doctors, so this is a really big thing to help local self-governments and health homes, such as the Srlig municipality, Gajin Han municipality, the Bela Palanka municipality, municipalities in southeastern Serbia and cities. That is one question and I think it is very positive, as regards the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health, joint activity, a common agreement on the well-being of all citizens in Serbia, and with an emphasis on southeastern Serbia, because it is very difficult to live there, but with a tendency to go for the better. One question I would ask the Ministry of Agriculture, since we are witnesses, but I will remind our people that funds have been prepared in the budget from 2011 to 2012 to help non-communicated land. That was largely said by the Ministry of Agriculture, said by 2012, before the elections, that it would be paid, that it would be done, so one part of the funds was paid. 20,000 dinars were paid until the other 20,000 dinars were paid. I ask the Minister of Agriculture to check and tell us how damaged the Ministry of Agriculture's budget was then, how burdened is the Ministry of Agriculture's budget with complaints from those farmers who failed to exercise their rights, and was the agreement in the 2011 budget? It's an example of how we shouldn't do it, but it's something that's bad, and I don't think it can happen again, but it can't be forgotten. The question of the Ministry of Agriculture – whether to enter into the process of changing the law or to pass a new law on cohesion, because we are witnesses, as far as agriculture is concerned, that without uncompromising the country, trust us, it will be very difficult to do. In this land law, there are a number of members involved in the membership, the work on co-operation, the integration of the country, the voluntary integration of the country. I think it's insufficient and I expect that in the next period we will enter into the process to pass a law on cohesion, because it's very important that municipalities that have capacity, have free land, have a large number of old people who can't process their land, that in this way, to group the land, and thus to allow young people to be able to deal with agricultural production. I would once again ask the question of the "Serbian" whether to enter into the process of solving the problem on Timok's waterway through the municipality of Srljig, where the left and right sides of Timoka should be done, to do the expropriation and to solve the problem of protecting Srlig from the flood. For the end, normally, as always, as a Serbian host, as a man who comes from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, which is Svrljig municipality, I would congratulate all people who celebrate the glory of St. Give it back. To all our doctors, and there are plenty here in the Assembly, I would like to congratulate that day with a desire to be much better, to make our Serbian nation healthier and to continue the tendency to invest in health care, because now we are going to give these laws that we bring the opportunity to expand, to work in health care, to build in health, such as the Low Clinical Center and other clinical centres. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25182	Thank you. The word is Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25183	Thank you, President. I direct my question, in fact I ask the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic, about restitution. She promised the new government that by the end of the year she would bring amendments to the Restitution Act, or the Agency for Restitution, she promised to help do so. About 100,000 citizens have been waiting so far, and they have filed demands, waiting to get solutions, and they don't know what's going on with their solutions, and as long as the return process is taken away from the property to last. That's why I ask Prime Minister Ana Brnabic if the amendment to the Law on the return of seized land or property is over? Will there be substitution in it and when will it arrive on the agenda? I'm also asking when was the last time the amendment committee met? Has the government considered a joint proposal and since 15 August 2011, NGOs, religious communities, Jewish municipalities, the right of Serbian citizens to return unjustly seized property under the same conditions as the property was returned to churches, because under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are equal. So, simply, why did the church get everything back and this substitution was applied, and not to some religious communities, it didn't happen? Since the General Administrative Procedure Act has prescribed that citizens must be given access to the authorities for the purpose of achieving the Constitution of guaranteed rights, why the competent Agency for Restitution, for which the Ministry of Finance is acting as if it is not part of that order, or the Republic of Serbia, so refuses, rejects and illegally shuts up about the requirements of the full three- or four-year-olds. In connection with this problem, why does the Ministry of Finance as a second-degree and supervisory authority of the Agency for Restitution not implement the General Administrative Procedure Act in a way that procedures before bodies providing for citizens' rights are repeated in the administrative procedure? So, citizens have no right, once they get one solution, they no longer have the right to complain, not that the Agency for Restitution treats citizens as if they came from a third world. Why is the Agency making up its own rules, legal rules, when acting, and opposed to the material and legal order? I also ask Minister Zorana Mihajlović, the Republic Geodetic Institute, Katastar of immovableity, is key to implementing the rule of law and protecting private property in the process of restitution, at what stage is the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on State Time and Catastrophe? Because many interested citizens have lost ownership of their own property, so they are prevented from participating in the return of their property. Citizens are interested in participating in amendments and additions to the Law on State measure and cataster of immovableity, because today's law did not allow their seized property in the Catastre of immovableity to be seen at all, especially when the Katastar was not available after 10 years for the exercise of the right of the seized property, so that the completion of the exposure procedure provided for the inability to return to the previous situation and to repeat the procedure, I have already pointed out that. I also ask Justice Minister Nelu Kuburovic, all of them are listed against the proceedings of the General Administrative Procedure Act, so Katastar deprives the property right in such a way that it is forbidden to repeat the proceedings in cases where the same Immobility Catalogue did not provide data on the existence of property. When and in what direction, in the matter of private ownership, are the amendments and additions to the Law on State Crossing and the Catastro of immovableity? I also ask the Minister of Agriculture, Nedimovic, we know that he has promised to mitigate all the consequences and droughts and everything that has happened in this agricultural sector, let me say, year, but instead of the promised cheap elevator and some benefits in the autumn sowing, none of this has happened. They're not couples, farmers are free from taxes, or anything, but they only get higher taxes than they did last year. No relief, no relief in the PIO contributions, haven't been lifted in some way. I ask Minister Nedimovic, will he and when will he make life easier for the farmers?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25184	The word is Zoran Radojićic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25185	Thank you. The issue for Justice Minister Nelu Kuburovic, whether the Russian Federation's general prosecutor's office, in 2012, addressed the Ministry of Justice with a plea for international legal aid, and regarding a criminal proceedings conducted before the authorities of the Russian Federation against Boris Berezovski and Nikolai Gushkov, as well as whether the seizure of property in their possessions was sought in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Please provide us with the documentation provided with this application for international legal aid. A question for the President of the Supreme Court in Belgrade, Aleksandar Stepanovic, to inform us of the movement of the case in a plea for international legal aid, under the business number 2po152/12, which was adopted in Belgrade's special court department on 20 November 2012, and to provide us with all court decisions made in the course of the proceedings. A question for the President of the Supreme Court in Belgrade, Aleksandar Stepanovic, whether it was the subject of a plea, i.e. Request for confiscation of Berezovski Boris and Nikolaj Gluskov, covered the assets of the company "Danube Foods Group BV" and the assets of the company "Bambi Banat" a.d. Belgrade, fun park for children and youth "Bambi Park", "Imlek" a.d., "MLekara" a.d., "Knjaz Milos" a.d., "Knjiz Milos Natura" Batajnica, "Belosavac 2001" d.o.o. Smederovska Palanka, “Sekop” d.o.o. Belgrade, Knjaz Milos, Banja Luka, Knjaz Milos, Montenegro, whose nominal value is 600m euros. The competent Russian authorities have found that in the period 2002 to 2005, Boris Berezovski, over four companies and one trust, transferred $320m acquired as a result of the criminal association's operations at the New World Value Fund at Gibraltar, and then invested this money "Value Discovery Partners" from the British Virgin Islands. The company invested part of the assets in the mineral water charging company Knjiz Milos through Benume Funds Group BV, based in Amsterdam. Later, the Benume Funds Group BV glass active “Bambi Banata”, “Bambi Park”, “Imleka”, “Mlekare” Subotica. “Value Discovery Partners” also invested funds in the “Clates Holding BV” based in Utrecht, the Netherlands and through it became the owner of 100% of the “Knjiz Milos” campaign. The key question is, why did someone decide to cheat Russia, but also deny Serbia 300m euros that would have been seized and who took this money? Question for Police Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, 14 November 2014 In the year, the murder of businessman Milan Beck was attempted. There is currently a trial pending for attempted murder, but the public has virtually no record of the case. Please answer three questions about this. The key is, have you discovered the motive for this work? Your first statement was that the assassin at Beka was an amateur and the police would be quick to solve this case. Later that statement of yours turned out to be incorrect. However, did police come to the conclusion during the investigation that the assassin, apparently a professional, had no intention of killing Milan Beck, but was seriously hurting him. Finally, whether the assassination of Beka was brought into contact with the business of the mentioned “Danube Foods” with which he formally and in fact managed, or sold it. As we know, Denjub Foods was sold two and a half months after the assassination of Milan Bek to the London Fund "Mid Europe Partners" and whether this assassination attempt was to convince Beck to do the transaction. Question for the director of the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering – have you examined the origin of the money that was used to purchase "Denjub Foods", as well as what price was actually paid and which company was the transfer of funds made? Given that Berezovski has at least been officially dead since 2013, that the management of companies that once owned Denjub Foods has been entrusted to the management of the company "My Brands" d.o.o. Whose headquarters is located on the same street where Milan Beko lives, which is very interesting, because it is precisely the scene of the assassination in an attempt by Milan Beko. We also note that the director of "My Brands" Andrija Jovanovic is a former co-owner of "Marba", so we ask you a question – did you and when you carried out the check on the money of former owners of the company "Marbo"? If it is accepted that it is true that their company "Marbo" is, though, and it is discriminatory, because the late Mile Tadic then gave 90% of the money for the establishment of Marba, indeed sold "Pepsia" for 200m euros, how did Andrija Jovanovic and Bojan Milovanovic control the companies mentioned in previous issues and Medigrup Hospital and KBM Business Bank, Findomestik Bank, and recently the Pireus Bank, how did they finance the construction of A bloc in New Belgrade, where the project financing was financed by Pireus Bank? Speaking of the Pireus Bank, this bank is also the biggest mortgage truster for Luke Belgrade, behold wonders, Beko again. They're always stuck in their paths. In addition, how did these people offer a billion and 350m euros to buy Telecom?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25186	Time. Thank you. Your Honor, you have not used the right of Article 287 in a single part. I have to tell you, I can't deliver any of the questions contained in me asking for court decisions and data from court cases. I don't know if you're a lawyer, but look at the Rules of Procedure and the positive legal regulations. That can't be done. I can't have the courts supplying you or anyone with court cases and data from court cases, whether they're judicial or not. So that part of your question is inexecutable. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25187	I refer the question to the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs – how many total people with disabilities are included in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in 2017 and how many measures and programmes, in order to encourage, provide support, as well as create conditions for equal inclusion of persons with disabilities in the labour market, and within the framework of the National Action Plan? I ask this question because the situation on the ground is different from statistical data and legal standards. In fact, employers who have over 20 employees are rather determined to pay taxes and legal obligations than to employ a person with disabilities. It is obvious that it is necessary to motivate employers on this not only working-law relationship, but also the sociological problem of our society, which is the socialization of people with disabilities, above all. This is why I am also asking the Republic Labour Inspectorate – how many of these cases of engagement, i.e. no engagement, were recorded in 2017 in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and what measures were taken on this occasion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25188	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25189	The first question is referred to the Anti-Corruption Agency. In June, I analyzed and published citizen donations for the presidential campaign by Alexander Vukic. I've addressed all 6,940 donors and sorted everything nicely in the municipalities. Payments are fixed and amounting to 40,000 dinars and are paid at the expense of the president's campaign. We also invited the Anti-Corruption Agency to check the origins of the money that was more than obviously pumped by illegal channels in Alexander Vukic's campaign. Recently, the same research was carried out by BIRN. Did the Anti-Corruption Agency check out the allegations from my and BIRN analysis or still believe in the story where two people are sitting in a bar, the third with the cash that tells them – let's put 40,000 dinars into the account of our president's campaign. The question for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs – among the donors mentioned above are social assistance users who receive about 8,000 dinars per month, have you checked where they get 40,000 dinars to help one campaign and do they need to continue to receive social assistance when they have to pay five times the amount they are now receiving? A question for the minister without portfolio, Nenada Popovic – Why did you report to the Anti-Corruption Agency two of the short companies, one in Cyprus, and the other in the British Virgin Islands, which you today claim you do not have? So have you misinformed the Anti-Corruption Agency then or are you misinformed today by the citizens of Serbia? I remind you, in the robbery privatisation of "Minela" before sending him into bankruptcy, Minister Popovic charged the company and all its assets with huge loans and money with his brother-in-law. What companies are these, and is it true that it is tens of millions of euros? Does he know that hundreds of workers are out of work? Is the money that was found on his companies actually the money that was recovered from the Minela at the time? The issue for the Tax Administration of Serbia – according to an assessment from an international project in which KRIK, i.e. the Crime and Corruption Research Network, is estimated to be worth at least $75 million in transactions and property of Minister Popovic in the short zones, and that their market value is around $100 million – when will the Tax Administration of Serbia carry out cross-checking of the property of Minister Nenad Popovic, on the grounds that the company's business has committed a crime of money laundering, tax evasion and property hiding, and what has been discovered in an international project called Paradise Papers? The question for the speaker of the assembly – late budget, is the responsibility of the speaker of the assembly. The draft budget had to reach the MPs on November 1st to adopt no later than December 15th. So the budget's been late for two weeks now. Did you press the Serbian government to deliver the draft budget for 2018 to lawmakers, or will you leave us 24 hours to prepare the most important session of the year as last year? We ask 31 times Alexander Vukic – when will the president of the state stop breaking the Constitution and resign as SNS president, so that he will not be in conflict of interest, and how would he be president of all citizens? Serbia's advanced party joins the coalition with Ramush Haradinaj in Kosovo -- is the SNS coalition with Haradinaj announcing the release of the preamble from the Serbian Constitution? DJB lawmakers have so far asked Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic 30 times, but he has not responded once, even though it is his legal obligation. Why does the President of the Republic violate his legal obligation and not answer the questions of the Members? We are asking a 24-time question from the president of the Mayi Gojkovic Assembly. The president of the assembly promised to schedule a session of the assembly to discuss her shift in a month. That was six months ago. When will the President of the Assembly put a motion on his own shift on the agenda? DJB lawmakers have so far asked 23 times the president of the Mayi Gojkovic Assembly, not once answered, although it is a legal obligation. Why does the President of the Assembly violate the law and the Rules of Procedure and not answer the questions of the MPs even though it is her obligation? Does he know that it sends a message to the citizens that the law doesn't apply to everything? As usual, please provide the answers in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25190	You asked me if I pushed the government? I press them all the time. We'll see what the results are. This is for the public, all citizens of Serbia should know. We're pressing and we're going to see what the pressure results will be. You will receive the rest in writing, in accordance with Article 287. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25191	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, I ask the first question as prime minister at the interim and, I think, very short work in that place, Ana Brnabic. Why did Vladimir Peric and Tijana Hegic receive criminal and criminal charges after Paul and Gavril and the other participants of the protest against dictatorship? Is this a threat to all people who think differently, speak differently and want in one peaceful and democratic way to express their disagreement with this regime? I also ask the president of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, who supported them in those moments. Do you think this will prevent the rebellion that is being prepared in Serbia? Do you really think you can shut up, intimidate and intimidate all seven million Serbian citizens? Serbia will not agree to this, and neither will the Democratic Party. I also ask Prime Minister Ana Brnabic the second question. What does her brother have to do with the Gosa factory, because I asked that question last time and we got an answer from the prime minister that her brother had nothing to do with the Gosa factory. Well, we know that her brother certainly doesn't make fair money for his life, his family, that he doesn't work from seven to three every day in Gosa. It was not a concrete question, but a replacement of the thesis in the response of Prime Minister Brnabic. I ask a concrete question – what does Prime Minister Ana Brnabic's brother have to do with the company Konsalting Capital from Zemun, not what does it have to do with the "Gosa" factory? Dear citizens, advanced experts have managed to start the Capital Consulating company in Zemun in just a month. In that month, the company managed to buy out a four hundred-thousand-euro Goose debt and managed to schedule a hearing for November 16th, which is the day after tomorrow in the Prijevrevac Court of Commerce. All that in a month! Who in this country can do it so zealously, but a progressive machine that, look, happens to be every firm that they're ruining their workers in this country is founded and there's only a month. I ask the prime minister, in which country exists that the Slovak firm sold itself to a Cyprus firm, and this Cyprus firm sold its four hundred thousand-euro debt to the company Capital Consuling in Zemun? It all happens that both companies were founded within a month. You cannot convince Serbian citizens that this is not another one in a series of irregular, unworthy and corrupt SNS actions. And just so you know, every government is replaceable. I promise you, in the name of disreputed and stolen workers, that someone will answer for this eventually. Dear citizens, I ask another question of the prime minister at the provisional and, I think, very short work in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Ana Brnabic – is it true that the company "Seko", which is directly owned by her brother, has received 13 jobs since Mrs. Ana Brnabic was elected prime minister of this state, 13 jobs from ministries and public enterprises whose founder is the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Is it true, dear fellow citizens, the distinguished prime minister and dear gentlemen of the elderly, that the company in the period 2017, since Ms. Brnabic was elected prime minister, has had revenues greater by six million euros than in the same period in 2015 and 2016? In what country in Europe, except Serbia, can it happen? Are we going to get answers to these questions, or will the prime minister, like so far, stay gone, or will she tell us about how her brother has nothing to do with Gosa? So we know, once again, that it has nothing to do with it, that it does not work honestly and honestly as workers in Gosa from seven to three. For the truth, the Gosa firm, which you're pushing into bankruptcy and leaving thousands of people out of work, has jobs arranged for the next two years, and they're also doing business with an Iranian company to make new thousands of cars, which will provide them with a job in the next four years. Who is in the interest of shutting down such a company, except for your brother, cousin, godfather and partner ties that you are going to harm Serbia and disprove all workers in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25192	Time, thank you. The word is Sreto Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25193	In order to start solving a series of problems between the Serbian state and Serbian citizens, and with the desire to resolve them, I would ask the first question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Ana Brnabic and her government – when do they seriously think they are going to start solving the problems of Serbian citizens? Because it's been a hundred days, and she seems to be still at the Department of Local Self-Government. The first question the Serbian Radical Party wants to ask is Minister Aleksandra Antic, Minister for Mining and Energy. It is certain that Serbia is committed to the Energy Community to have 27% of renewable electricity production by 2020. At this rate as it is done, I don't think it's going to be in a situation until 2900 and some years to end this problem and business. Just once again to remind me that the company "Energoproject" and the Institute of Water "Jaroslav Černi" in 1987 did a platform, i.e. a cadastre mini power plant and, according to their assessment in Serbia, it is possible to build around 856 mini power plants. In a later period, some companies were granted a license and created opportunities to assess themselves, namely to make master plans as much as possible to use this energy potential in Serbia. Thus, an expert team, or team of experts from the Serbian Radical Party, who is following this problem with the desire to be solved in the best way, has come up with data that it is possible to build 43 mini power plants in the area of the municipality of Ljubovija, Krupanj 32, Bajna Basta 46, Mali Zvornik 30, Valjevo 70. This is a total of 221 mini hydropower plants and their production of renewable electricity would be equal to the production of hydropower plants in Zvornik before rehabilitation 2010/2011. A year. So that's one dimension of this problem. The second, you see, 221 locations where it is possible to build mini power plants in the area of only one part of our country, so let the average construction of these mini power plants by 40,000 euros, multiply by 221, and you'll see what number we get. It's only during construction, not to mention later production. There are investors here from Serbia and foreign investors, however, there is some knowledge that the tariff currently envisaged, which is a fid-in tariff that has a favourable price for renewable electricity producers, whose price is almost double the commercial price, will know that in 2020, when Serbia is otherwise obliged to produce 27% of electricity from renewable sources, it will abolish that preferential tariff. The question of future investors is raised. Those who have already done so, invested funds and invested, they remain to operate in conditions that the state of Serbia will change, but those who should appear, the potential ones, they will surely give up on their intentions that are certainly good. We have a very serious problem here, that local self-government has not recognized the importance of solving this problem, and that the state administration or the Ministry of Mining and Energy are not hearing enough to help local self-government solve these problems. And, when some investor in a maze of regulations and financial pins solves the problem, and on average, it takes from an idea project to the release of a mini power plant for up to two years, and there are a large number of investors who have given up on how to solve it, i.e. from wanting to invest in the job. The next question for the minister is why is the position of individual ministers and the directorate of public enterprises against investment and the construction of mini power plants? This is not only about the commercial effect that the state of Serbia can gain from the production of electricity from renewable sources, but also about one stability.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25194	You've wasted your time. Thank you. The word has the Soul Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25195	I thank the president. Dear fellow Members of the People, in accordance with Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I want to exercise my right to refer a question to the Ministry of the Interior as a People's MP. The affairs of the Democratic Party and Dragan Gilas are under way. Up until now, 44 of the closest associates Dragan Gilas and senior officials of the Democratic Party have been arrested and processed, but the fact is that some have gone unpunished. It is those who speak to us today about collapse and destruction that are the same ones who destroyed the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of the City of Belgrade. It seems that some of them, however, have avoided the hand of justice for their misdeeds and for the purposeless spending of state money. I want you to answer my question, is it true that Vuk Jeremic, who was the foreign minister, has devastated Serbia's citizens' budget by 3.6m euros, for his luxurious travels, for his diaries, hotels and private planes? More specifically, former Minister Jeremic spent 3.4m euros, only on his luxury flights, and more than 200,000 euros for overnight stays by luxury hotels. My question is, which tourist agency has made arrangements for these luxury trips? Who signed and approved these trips? What did that overpriced diplomatic shuttle get you? Isn't it a shame that this very wolf, Jeremic, who had his hand in hand with Gilas, Sapic destroyed Belgrade City and led it into an ambience, is now talking about the city's failure to function and is now telling us about honesty? What could have been built in Belgrade for 3.6m euros in Serbia? When will someone answer for it? It is scandalous that Jeremic and his like are criticising the city's power, because in Belgrade now it is working, because the city is developing and changing for the better. It is obvious that their only programme, hate programme and criticism is for criticism, and all in order to fight for power, all in the goal of the chair, for functions, for privileges. I am proud to say that thanks to the SNS in Belgrade, our Belgrade, our capital is the city of cranes. We have more than 1,111 active sites in Belgrade today. Now the infrastructure is being restored, Belgrade is being modernised and settled from day to day, and that is why I am really proud. The responsible authority, led by the SNS, managed to pay back the accumulated debt left by the yellow company in addition to all the benefits for Belgrade and Belgrade, so the SNS managed to halve the 1.2 billion-euro debt, to repay all debts for pregnant and maternity, socially endangered categories. In addition to repaying debts, the yellow company has left us in the amanet and we also take care of our city municipalities. It is also important for us that Belgrade's municipalities develop evenly, that we no longer have citizens of first and second order. We share the same citizens of Vrakar, Rakovica, the Savawedding, as well as the citizens of Sopota, Barajev and Groca. That's exactly the difference between us and them. We know we don't have 3.6m euros to throw. We know that we are not able to just throw away millions of euros from the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia. We know how hard it is to make that money today to spend it in vain. We know how difficult it is to pay back their debts, so now our budget revenues, the revenues of Belgrade City are increased and are constantly on the rise, which is why the budget of the City of Belgrade is higher by more than 200m euros this year. It is money that we can use wisely, to build our schools, hospitals, kindergartens, parks, our homes of health, our highways and bridges according to Belgrade's citizens, according to the example of Serbia's citizens. Let's not let the yellow company continue to make us fate in the country and fate in the city of Belgrade. At the very end, I ask the competent authorities to examine the spending of budgets for luxury travel, hotel expenses, diaries and airline tickets of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the time while Vuk Jeremic was Minister but also all other remains so-called. The yellow company that just changed their uniforms today and they're called different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25196	Thank you. 'As none of the presidents, or authorized, answer for the word, we continue to work. Official notification that the session will not be present today, Natasa Mihajilovic Vacic, the only member of parliament, sent. In the context of this session that has been delivered to you, the draft agenda for the session has been contained. According to the Rules of Procedure, we set out the first proposals for putting on the agenda acts by emergency procedure, addition, and then a proposal to merge the agenda. The government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Confirmation of the Treaty establishing the Transport Community. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for two, against seven, with abstentions, there is none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The High Council of the Judiciary has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Courts. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. The High Council of the Judiciary has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in relation to the Treaty of the Republic of Serbia and Al Rawafed International Investment. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no vote for – 16, against – one with abstentions – for – 16. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested putting on the agenda the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the top authorities in relation to the investment investment investment project in agriculture between the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the privatisation of the PKK. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda The proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts regarding the privatisation of the Kruševac factory IMK "14 October". I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 22, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts regarding human trafficking in Kosovo and Metohija, so-called. "Yellow House". I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. ''The National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda The proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the fact that the defence minister in the Serbian government, Mr Aleksandar Vulin, acquired a 107m-square-euro apartment in Belgrade, worth 244,620 euros. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 17, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. Ambassador Balša Bozovic suggested that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts of the purchase of more than 700 new passenger vehicles of the stamp “Škoda” MUP. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 19, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested putting on the agenda an emergency procedure on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts of the circumstances regarding suspected SNS transactions, as well as the suspicion of money laundering during the 2014 parliamentary elections and the 2017 presidential elections. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Balsa Bozovic suggested that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities regarding the reconstruction of Slavi Square and the construction of the music fountain. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 19, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the burning of the US Embassy and the Federal Republic of Germany, which were attacked on 21 February 2008, during the protest "Kosovo is Serbia", as well as responsibility, both the former and current holders of the highest state functions. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested putting on the agenda the draft decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to human casualties and material and immaterial flood damage in Serbia's territory in 2014. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Balsa Bozovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in connection with the construction of a Chinese company's Mei Ta factory in Baric. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I'm asking MP Mark Djuric not to photograph the MPs during the session. I ask Ambassador Mark Djuric not to take pictures of the MPs. Djurisic, we've never had an outflow like this before to take a picture here while we're doing something serious. I've never seen this before. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted, because the MPs have taken photographs, so they have not voted in favour of their proposal. Ambassador Balsa Bozovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the signing of the contract for the project "Belgrade on Water". I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Balsa Bozovic suggested that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts in the role and responsibilities of the top authorities in Belgrade, in connection with the signing of an agreement on the construction of a burning plant in Vinca. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 9, against – the abstentions. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Veroljub Stevanovic suggested that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts in the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in connection with the liquidation procedure "Such Insurance". I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MPs Studenka Kovacevic, Miletic Mihajlovic, Dr Darko Laketić, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, suggested that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 8, against – two, with abstentions – there is no. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances of the existence of private listening centres, which are in the service of the highest state offices in the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Balsa Bozovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the top authorities in relation to the signing of the contract between the Serbian government and Etihad Ervejz concerning the establishment of an air traffic undertaking, "Er Serbia". I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Balsa Bozovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda The proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances of the way in which the governor of NBS, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic, acquired a four-way apartment in Novi Sad of 144m square meters, for which on 30 November 2012, the company Telecom Serbia took over the remaining debt to mention the apartment of 77,700 euros. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Balsa Bozovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding possible abuse and corruption under the "Smederevo Zelezare" 2015, with a loss of around 150m euros annually. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 21, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Balsa Bozovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances and responsibilities for the untrue demonstration of the situation in relation to the level of aflatoxin in milk and corn, which caused major material and immaterial damage in the Republic of Serbia in 2013. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding unauthorized listening by the VBA, which had been spying on political parties, leaders and individual judges without a decision. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The SRS parliamentary group has proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 138, against – four, abstention – two. I find that a proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić proposed to put on the agenda following an emergency procedure - Proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the introduction of bankruptcy in the Schengen vehicle factory "Gosa" from Smederjevska Palanka. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 25, against – no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The MP group Enough was proposed to put, by emergency procedure, on the agenda - Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Something's wrong, please repeat the vote. The quorum, please, shows here as if it doesn't have enough number. What's wrong? It's not right that the screen shows that there are not enough MPs. Do I have to explain? Marko Djurisic: Give us the bell. I'm running a session here. What's the problem? Do you have a problem? I don't understand why I can't determine the quorum. (Radoslav Milojic: They think it's not legal. It's not the law, as far as I can tell. Would you be so kind as to insert it again and determine the quorum? I have the right to do that according to my Rules of Procedure. Five thousand times you've done it in previous sessions. People's MPs are getting out of place. ) As you say, the Rules of Procedure apply to everything equally, including the chairman, right? 143 MPs are present. I put it back on the vote, to put it on the agenda as an emergency procedure - a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the resolution and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission. MPs, please vote, I don't see you voting for it. (Radoslav Milojic: You just voted for it. I can vote for it, and I can't vote, but I don't know why you don't... MPs, I don't know why you don't vote for this proposal, and you just voted. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. No injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Please, there's a vote in progress, please vote. I ask Radoslav Milojičić not to throw away and not to tell anyone what he did, but to approach, not to approach, or to be abstained during the vote. So I don't understand why you won't vote again now, you won't vote. The vote wasn't closed. I don't want to argue with someone who doesn't even know the Rules of Procedure, who wrote it himself. People's MPs are getting out of place. ) It has everything in the record and in the stenographic notes. I don't react at the scream. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – two abstentions – there is no, 20 voted, 150 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. By emergency procedure, he'll go into a regular procedure, slowly. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Government Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 July 2016. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25197	Thank you very much. In the Government Act, it's that set of health laws, where I propose medical examinations for carriers, for potential holders of state functions, which means candidates for ministers, candidates for MPs and candidates for president of the state. This applies to candidates for the government's election. Why? I think a lot of examples in recent Serbian history are clear evidence that this is necessary, especially in the last few years. We have had various statements that are very unusual, various moves that are very unusual and that question whether the people who have made these laws, or those decisions, under the authority of the Serbian government, were they able to make any decisions? It's not an offensive norm, it wouldn't be, because it's necessary for people who don't know, who want to get hired by the state administration. Such a medical examination is passed by by people who want to be officials in the administration of the state, which from the level of joint services, meaning driver, coffee cooks, to the highest levels of those who did not choose officials, but who were employed by the state administration. Therefore, there is no reason not to adopt it and it would be quite clear that the holders of state functions when they are elected, that they do not only have the legality and legitimacy, but also that they are healthy, which is clearly not possible to prove in all cases. So, I call on you to introduce this as a legal practice, and you already know that this was once introduced as in the first democratic government of Serbia, led by Dr Zoran Djindjic, and then all the candidates for ministers first had to pass a medical examination in one reference institution, it was VMA. I am sure that health care in Serbia, regardless of the various obstructions, has progressed in the last 15 years or 17 years since this happened, and that today we have more reference institutions that can confirm whether anyone has physical and psychic predisposition to perform responsible functions, whose decisions, whether they are individual or whether the decisions of the authorities or the whole parliament are very important for the lives of Serbian citizens. So I call on you to put this bill on the agenda, to come to a common conclusion in a reasoned debate that such a law is necessary in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25198	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25199	Thank you. This is one of the draft laws that should in no way, in any way, cause any division between the MPs in this House, which is a bill that suggests that if someone is on sick leave, for the purpose of keeping a sick child, or the ladies who are pregnant, or the ladies who are on sick leave because the child is suffering from a particular serious illness, or any citizen who is on sick leave for treatment from a serious illness, can't get fired until his treatment is over. We have a lot of examples of this, most of these examples that it happens to be a sick person, and sometimes because of pregnancy, let alone because the disease gets him fired, because there's no protection in the current Labour Act, and it's not a question of the ideology of one party or another, it's not a question of whether someone once was like this, whether it was for slaughter, and now it's not, whether someone was normal, and now it's not normal, but it's a question of the minimum civilization level of standards that we have to respect. So, you can't have people who are already in trouble, in trouble, because either they're sick or you don't give God, have a sick child, choose between whether they're going to care for their health or their child's health or find it as an alternative to doing it, to continue working in a new factory opened by Alexander Vukic 15, 20 or not knowing how many months ago and where they're getting a big salary of 25,000 dinars, and they get free diapers that they don't have to go to the bathroom. I call on you to overcome all the party differences, all the truths and truths that we spread about each other and to reach a maximum consensus about one such law, to put it on the agenda first, to hear all the arguments, that I, as a proposer, hear counter-arguments, if there can be in relation to such a bill and to decide before the citizens of Serbia whether we need Serbia's health, or whether it is more important for some who appear to be investors with large subsidies.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25200	Thank you. I'm putting the bill to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a law supplementing the law on the election of the President of the Republic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25201	So we stay in the set or in a group of health laws, first it was protection of the health of ministers, then protection of the health of people who are sick or who care for sick family members, especially children, and now we come to the same resolution, with the same reason and the same methodology of protecting the health of the president of the state, or protecting the state from the health of someone who is running for that place. Let's just say that I'm not talking about a specific case once, and especially not about this one that is now current, which is now represented by the president of the state, but about taking it as general. We've had a variety of conditions, of sleeplessness, of obsession, of not knowing what all the physiological defects that a president of the state has, and then conveys to all of us, his concerns, his worries, his sleeplessness, his nightmares and all the consequences, the product of such a state of health. We also have fascinations, and we have all kinds of things that people see things like, say, canals from the Danube to the Aegean Sea, like four billion dollar chips, like airplanes that are gifts, and they cost 300 million, and by the way they don't fly, like the mass of certain things, I could, for days, as you know, talk to you about all these consequences, obviously, health problems that some people have, and by chance, they can come into a situation to be at the highest state level. That is why it is good to protect them, but above all, to protect citizens from all these potential problems. That is why, as I spoke earlier in the case of the minister's candidate, it is particularly important in case someone is running for president of Serbia. In many countries in the world there is a legal norm that defines it, and even there is the possibility that parliament, and when it assesses that the president of the state or the Prime Minister, or one of the ministers has some health problems that have an important impact on his work, that they require the medical examination of the holder of that function and that the report be published. For example, in the United States, there is now this "Tramp-Serbs", as I recall, and in some other countries, for example in Turkey, it's also the case, in BiH it may be, I don't remember, but in all those countries where your centuries-old friends and current friends, comrades and associates, there are already such laws and there's no reason why it's not there in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25202	I'm putting it to a vote. We're having trouble with the system. You can't vote. Is there a master here for this? I can't shut down the unit. Can I run the session? So who's in? It was 13, against – zero, abstention – zero, voted 13, did not vote 146, a total of 159. We're moving on to Mr. Zivkovic's next proposal. Just tell me which one is it? The election of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25204	Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, it is the same... I hope this is regular, what we're doing right now. I don't want to put any problem in here. Let's finish this group of health laws. I'm not even good at time. I can conclude that a proposal has been adopted to put on the agenda this previous law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25205	Here, you had your five minutes. You see what it's like to be president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25206	How nice it is when the session starts in a good mood, where everyone is satisfied, but the problem is that it's a condition for the system to fall. Every time the system goes down, there's always a good mood. It's, I mean, more than obvious. The law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs is the last of this group of health laws. Of course, if we have already agreed that candidates for ministers and candidates for presidents should pass the medical examination, it is absolutely fair, correct and necessary for the review to pass and candidates for MPs. This is the highest home of democracy in one country, according to the Constitution and by law, sometimes it will be in reality. Parliament affects the most important things in the state, elects the Government, makes a proposal for the Constitution, confirms the constitution after the referendum, adopts laws that are absolutely daily important for the lives of Serbian citizens, and it is certain that it is important that MPs who make decisions, who are representatives of the people, have absolute health skills for that, even at the level of someone who is involved in cleaning the premises in which we work, without underestimating any work. That's why I'm calling on you to say that the talk about Parliament is unserious, that there's an argument, that the Prime Minister said the other day that it's not a constructive atmosphere, that the biggest problem in the country is here somewhere in this room, that the MPs are like this or like that, that all these stories and all these conundrums are solved, first of all, in one part, and that's part of the health care, so we're going to determine whether it's normal for us to have MPs here who are not normal. I hope this bill, when adopted, will prevent such an opportunity, and therefore I invite you to vote for it. When we get to that, we won't have any problem with people voting at their will, not at the bell, that we won't have any problem with people, when the law is proposed that sick people and those who are sick must not get fired, vote against it, we'll have an atmosphere where we'll all work so that we're aware that we're sent here by God or by some half-god or self-involved god who is the president of this party or that party, but that they sent us to spend their money when we work here, but that, more importantly, we spend both their futures and the present, but also the future if we get the wrong grades. So I ask you to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25207	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be completed at the point of the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25208	Thank you very much. It's the oldest of these proposals I've tried again today to put in the agenda with your help. This is the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education, where one definition is introduced, a principle called academic honesty, is also given the definition that academic integrity is something based on independent writing, as well as on strict respect for other people's copyrights. There are four members or five, three members, so it's very simple to bring, and it's obviously necessary. Not only are there controversy over the graduation of the former president of the current interior ministers, mayor, governor of the bank, but practically every diploma in Serbia is under question. They say when the president can falsify by graduating on Sunday, when the interior minister can pull through his doctoral work, "his" through five or six colleges, and then he gets that title, when they have no face to be ashamed of them to do something like that, so why don't a lot of other people do it? We have a lot of examples here. Every day we hear about getting some diplomas, some doctorates, some master's titles, by someone washing buses and overnight finding a diploma or otherwise unusual, but in any case unworthy and not legally getting to that paper. Of course that paper doesn't mean much if someone tries to get a job the normal way, through the competition, they don't ask what you've finished, they ask what you know to do, and then they check it out. Unfortunately, I mean, all of us, not only in these two summons of these authorities, it's probably been happening before, but here intensely, we have capacity overload, administration, public enterprises, local self-government, all around the crowd of people who later, at 58 and 65 years of age, they've been attacked by knowledge at some point, a desire for education and education, and have simply become great experts in economics, rights, I don't know what everything. I think it's in the interest of all those who have made it to their diploma in a decent way, as is the example of the President of the Assembly, as is the example of many of our other colleagues, that it is their interest to stand in the way of this monster.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25209	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25210	Since 2015, I've been proposing this resolution. On April 24th, it has been 100 years since the beginning of the genocide of the Armenians, which was carried out by the Ottoman Empire from 1915 to 1922. At that time, I will repeat today that over 20 countries, including the Russian Federation, Greece, Belgium, France, Canada, Cyprus, Italy, Switzerland, Argentina, Uruguay, Sweden, Lebanon and many others, have recognised and condemned the genocide of Armenians carried out in that period. I was then saying, I hope this applies today, given that the attachment of the Republic of Serbia to international principles and rules on the prevention and condemnation of genocide, is also expressed by the Law establishing the Museum of Victims of Genocide "The Official Messenger" from 1992 to 2005, which, among other things, was established on 22 April as the day of marking the permanent memory of the victims of genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma. These are all reasons to join these significant states that have recognised the need and adopted it as necessary. No matter what that genocide happened 100 years ago, no matter what happened somewhere that wasn't the center of Europe, and it's not in front of us every day, but that any genocide is done on Armenians or on others, on Serbs or on others, it has to be condemned and that we don't have such examples in the future. I have already spoken several times, Serbian citizens, Serbs and all others were victims of genocide, some Serbs have been accused of committing genocide on our behalf, which no one has given the right to do so. These things can't be kept quiet, these things have to be cleaned up, thrown into the trash of history. Serbia has no right to protect any and any genocide, primarily from everything that has been happening to us in different periods of our history. Therefore, I urge you to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. A few months ago, Ambassador Azerbaijan asked me to propose together with other colleagues a resolution on Nagorno-Karabah, where it is proposed that this problem be resolved by international law. He had no problem supporting the genocide resolution against the Armenians. In communication with Turkish officials, I had no problem with this proposal. On the contrary, they are aware that modern Turkey does not have much to do with Ottoman Turkey that is to blame for this genocide. I urge you to vote against genocide.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25211	Thank you. I'm putting your proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25212	Thank you. This has nothing to do with that health proposal, the review, but it has to do with spending money, so maybe we can indirectly link it to health. I was already talking, so let me remind you, a lot of things are happening, so maybe somebody forgot. I propose that the law prohibit the spending of budget money, i.e. the money of Serbian citizens to advertise political parties, the bearer of lists, candidates and all those participating in the electoral process as candidates, because for these needs in each election cycle, we are witnessing that practically every year we have some regular snap elections or extraordinary regular elections, spends close to 100m euros of state-owned money, whether that money is legally obtained from the state, whether through various machinations, which are obvious, such as a payment of 40,000 dinars, such as spending money from public enterprises in some TV stations, and thus advertised by some political parties, that some political parties would be financed by video of political parties that are below the level of political acceptance, and that I do not speak. This further poisons and pollutes Serbia's media space, and this can be resolved by prohibiting advertising of political parties on television. Let me tell you a few countries that have gone a little further from us in the development of democracy, democratic standards and principles, and in whose right this standard is applied, such a solution, which is Great Britain, the Netherlands, Sweden, Norway, France, Germany, Ireland, Spain and many others. There are no paid ads for political parties and candidates, but the need for citizens to get acquainted with election programmes, with objectives, with politics, the ideology of an old-fashioned candidate, which is tested as the best and only good, and this is a direct duel of the opponent. That's what we haven't seen in Serbia in the past five, six years, and I think it's good to come back for a number of reasons. First, what it is is the right way to face the public, and second, it costs nothing. This is how we spend hundreds of millions, make it fifty, be it that I may have made a mistake, but 50 million euros a year for the needs of enough money to cure all children who can be cured abroad.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25213	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 22, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25214	The explanation is the same, and the goal is to ban political parties from advertising on electronic media through the Law on the financing of political parties, to save your time and your nerves. I think this explication is enough for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25215	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 22, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25216	The aim of this law is to settle this area in Serbia. I'll do it again. We have many places across Serbia from Presevo to Sudotica, in Belgrade in particular, a mass of examples of illegal construction. You have "Belgrade on water" as the most extreme example, regardless of the "medicine specialis" that was brought in by this need. It is obvious that great activities of the departments are needed, including the survey committee in our parliament, but also the activity of construction inspection, financial police, police in charge of the prosecution to determine what is going on, but we also have examples all around Belgrade. We also had in New Belgrade where there was a story about a building, which was built, allegedly contrary to the city's decision, and with the desire of local leadership of the municipality of Novi Belgrade. We have those cottages next to the Sava that can't be torn down, and everyone agrees that they're illegal, but they have some deeper foundations that are, I mean deep out there to Bictine, and then they can't come down easily. We have a repeat example where they are involved in the crime shop investor, Vračar municipality, Belgrade city and the competent ministry, which is building in Nebojsa 8a, where the order for destruction is being built today. There's a power connection, so there's a construction current. Everything is done as if everything is legal, and there are ten documents brought by these same institutions that say it's not according to the law, because they say it's there, but you don't know who's behind it. I fear for anyone behind whom someone stands, because you never know what will happen to you that stands behind you. Sometimes it'll protect you, and sometimes it can be something bad. In any case, many examples of history have shown that this is not a very grateful position. Therefore, I urge you to vote in favour of this bill, which is, according to the expert public's assessment, back in 2003, when it was adopted for the first time, and after that, it was abolished, inaction and formally, the best law in the area. Among other things, there was a norm, and he did not prevent construction, on the contrary, but he stimulated and brought real investors, not mixers and frauds, where it was threatened by jail time for those who stabbed the shafts at the start of construction without a building permit, let alone doing what is done today throughout Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25217	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the work permit a.d. for insurance "Such Insurance" Kragujevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25218	Thank you. I propose to be educated by the committee of inquiry in order to determine the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the license to work "Such Insurance" from Kragujevac. The Committee of Auditors would make up one MP from each parliamentary group in the National Assembly, on a proposal from the parliamentary group. The parliamentary group would appoint a member of the committee within seven days of the entry into force of this decision. The task of the Committee, most importantly, to look at and determine the facts and circumstances that led to the unlawful withdrawal of the work permit a.d. for insurance "Such Insurance" Kragujevac and to establish the liability of the NBS for the withdrawal of the licence, as indicated, due to the lack of technical reserves at the time when they were in that insurance by the facts available above the average on our market. To establish responsibility for the destroyed reputation of "Such Insurance" because there were 408 employees left there because of a decision to shut it down. To see if there was an agreement between the NBS legal services to withdraw the authorisation to operate this company in the area of insurance. Whether the winding-up procedure “Such insurance” established that there was no need to withdraw the work permit and found no need. Thus, the liquidation process found that there was no reason to destroy one of the insurance companies that employed 408 workers and which are not only for the sake of, but also important, because of the salaries of these people, it all happened because the owner, i.e. the owners, wanted the insurance company to sell to one of the foreign insurance companies known to come to a country, introduce order in the area of insurance with its business and their way of operation. Against this they joined together, said the people of Takova, from Kragujevac, those who are aware that the arrival of a serious insurance house would lead them to have to operate by law, which would have to fail because their business so far is not based on the law and good business practices. Of course, this is not about those big, serious insurance houses, which are already operating on our market, but it's about a pool of basils representing themselves as an insurance house, and in fact, you can't have any certainty that if you're their client, you'll get any compensation if something happens that leads them to an obligation to pay you a fee.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25219	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 21, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Miladin Ševarlic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms and products from GMOs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 May 2017. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25220	President-in-Office, honourable MPs, citizens of Serbia, for the third time I have addressed the same proposal to you in the National Assembly, but this time I will address the citizens of Serbia first. I asked our famous writer, Ljubivoj Ršmović, who wrote many famous songs to write one song in the context of this declaration. Here's his poems. The song bears the title "Will We Let Malignants Excavate When We Are Genetically Modified?" "Here's what happens to genetic science when it falls into the hands of the world's assholes. To those who don't pay their bills when their cheeks cross with their wallet. By dealing with genetic mania to cross the Serbs with the boranium. To those who shoot with pride, when they make beans with the taste of salmon. They are prepared by the same method to cross Judah with Jesus Christ. They think they can't cross angels and monsters. God despises them, and whoever asks God is asking the gods of money and profit, GMO foreign words, mercenaries, I studied it professorly, carefully and concluded it is a shortcut from the modified Serbian word GoMno." May 2017, Ljubivoje Ršumović. Ljubivoje Rsumovic is a professor of Serbian language and literature, and therefore his ceiling does not associate with me, but with him and his views. I would like to inform and ask you, all MPs, among us 250, only 14 MPs are not from the territory of 136 municipalities and cities whose committees unanimously adopted the text of the GMO Declaration. Do we have the moral right to deafen ourselves to the plebisitarian statement of committees in local self-government that make up more than 400 local self-government in the Republic of Serbia. It is also very indicative that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, who wrote a negative opinion on my proposal for a declaration, fully agrees with the provisions of the current GMO Act, but only did she not comment on the citizens' right to declare in a referendum what they would feed themselves and their children. I call on the citizens of Serbia to collect signatures for the referendum, and that unless there is a reasonable approach here...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25221	Thank you very much. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dragan Vesovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration on the protection of Serbian language. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25222	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow MPs will be asked why the Serbian Movement of the Dvori insists on a declaration like this. It is widely known that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Article 10, also says that in Serbia there is a Serbian Cyrillic letter. It is widely known that the Law on official use of the language of letters and letters, therefore, states that Cyrillic and Serbian languages are official languages in the Republic of Serbia. The idea that the Serbian Dvori movement had was that the National Assembly, as the state's supreme legislative body, would give one wind in the back of the ministries and all the public institutions of the Serbian state to work towards implementing what we have legally and constitutionally. We have witnessed the fact that for the past ten years there has been a severe violation and humiliation of Serbian language, less in the state of Serbia and more in other countries. We are witnessing that the two literary excuses, which the Serbian language has, Ekva and Ichavahski, do not live equally in Serbia, and that in particular this other excuse is trying to present in its languages in the countries that are surrounded by us. We are witnessing, on the other hand, that the neighbouring country, the Republic of Croatia, is raising hundreds of thousands of people to break the Cyrillic board in Vukovar, where it is mostly a Serbian animal or an unseen haranga on a message that is Serbian when speaking Serbian in the Croatian Parliament. All of these were the reasons why the Serbian Dvori movement wanted the Assembly to bring such a declaration and that such a declaration would be something to encourage all public institutions, all ministries in the work cycle, to work more seriously to protect the identity and preserve the Serbian language. It is known that a people who lose their tongue and lose a word, lose a part of their identity, stop being a people. Let us not let it happen in the future, but to those who come behind us, let us show that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the institution that will protect the Serbian language in the best way possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25223	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – six, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dragan Vesovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25224	Although I am clearly sad that only six MPs of the Serbian Parliament voted for the proposal, I will not speak English, and I will continue to speak Serbian about this second proposal. The draft law amending and supplementing the PIO Act comes from Article 70. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia that prescribed the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to care for economic security is retired. The government of the Republic of Serbia has an obligation to regularly coordinate pensions, as otherwise pensioners would be brought into an unfavourable financial social position because of an inflationary reduction in the real value of their pensions. This is what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia tells us, and the amendments to the Law on PIO, which were published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia" No. 75/2014, there was a change in the composition of the Board of Directors of the PIO Fund, which with the then 21 members, as it had, was reduced to seven members. Of these seven members, it deals with the bill, to amend this provision, to establish a different system, of these seven members are those who go on the proposal of the Minister in charge of PIO affairs. One member is from the insurance company, one member from the employers' line and one member from the line of users of the right to propose to the Pensioners' Association. So, the Serbian movement Dveri believes that such a legal solution is incorrect and is not good, so he suggested that the PIO Management Board be mentioned in advance, five members from the pensioners' rights line, because we believe that those who are the users of that right should decide the most about it. In the way that it is now, one thing has been done, according to us, unnecessary support, so the state has made an impact that few of it can control. I'm convinced that you haven't even read this, because if you'd read it, you'd see that it makes a lot of sense here, and unfortunately, we'll still suggest with hope that one day you'll hear something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25225	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dragan Vesovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25226	Thank you, Chairman. The law on the temporary arrangement of the way in which pensions are paid is applicable from 28 October 2014. So, for three years, we're doing something temporarily. Article 20. The Constitution, it is prescribed that the level of human rights cannot be reduced, and that these rights can only be restricted by law if the Constitution allows, in the large extent, the constitutional purpose of the restriction to be met and without the entry into the essence of the guaranteed right. True, when the Law on the Temporary Payment of Pensions is passed, it says in its name – a way of paying off pensions is arranged, which is, in fact, the essence of that law. The point is that from then on to this day, and in the meantime, and we don't know when this temporary period will stop and whether it will stop, every pensioner will be damaged by an enormous amount of money, and what in our view of charity, on two occasions, is a pale compensation for what needs to be really implemented. Article 58. The constitution says you could bring a set of laws and limit the availability of part of your pension, but only with fair compensation. This means that, for a period of time, less pensions than under the law could be paid, but only as loans which, at the end of the need for such an act, would be reimbursed at the appropriate interest. And this member of the Constitution is not provided for by this Law on the temporary payment of pensions, nor is it intended for the way they will be returned, or whether they will be returned, and whether they will be returned at an adequate rate is likely to have no speech. Why might now be the best time for a proposal like this to come up on the agenda and talk about this? Well, because, as it's been made public and talked about for half a year, the budget of the Republic of Serbia has never been more full, absolute financial stability has been achieved, and all of these reasons that may be at one point, I say maybe because I don't think there were any other ways, but there have been other ways, have been used by this they stopped existing, so I think this should be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25227	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dragan Vesovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's National Assembly to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2017 election process, from the day of the presidential election to the day of publication of the provisional election results in the 99.9% of polling stations.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25228	Thank you, Chairman. The proposal for a decision on the education of this polling committee, you saw in the title that is quite long – to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the presidential elections, etc., is, in fact, a proposal for a committee of inquiry that should deal with the determination of truth. All of us sitting in the National Assembly are representatives of citizens, someone with a smaller back behind us, someone with a bigger back behind us, but we are all representatives of citizens and all of us should be equally interested in the truth. What is the truth about the presidential election, what was happening right before, during and immediately after the presidential elections, is the only thing that one committee can establish. Otherwise, the legal basis for a decision on the establishment of such a survey committee is in Article. Items 1 and 192, paragraphs 2 and 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides for the National Assembly to be able to educate the committee of inquiry on a proposal from the MP. So, we use the basis that the MP has through the Rules of Procedure on the work of the MP, and the aim of such a polling committee would be to monitor the pre-election activities in the future and point to any irregularities in the conduct of political parties, candidates and other participants in the electoral process, to control the handling of the means of public notification in the application of the provisions of this law, to propose measures to respect the equality of candidates in the presentation of their programmes, to address the public for the protection of the moral integrity of candidates and to warn about the actions of political parties, candidates and public information that hinder the election campaign and threatens the equality of the rights of all candidates. Just these five points I've read now are, if you study them well, five places where we've had serious violations just before, during and right after the election process. Therefore, for each future election, and Serbia is a country of choice and here elections are very often happening, we should do this so that some doubts and shadows, from whatever side they come from, whether by the government or by the opposition, will once and for all be moved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25229	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dragan Vesovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to identify the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2016 election process, from the day of the call of the Republic elections until the day of publication of the final results of the elections. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25230	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, a survey committee that should examine all those events that took place in the 2016 election process for the selection of MPs. These days, we are witnessing that some new, future parliamentary elections are being discussed, and we still don't know what the real truth is about the 2016 elections. Immediately after entering the parliament of the Serbian Movement of Dvera, we had a proposal to form a polling committee, but what is interesting, similar or identical proposal came on the other hand, so distinguished counterpart Martinovic, head of parliament's most numerous political group, also proposed a polling committee. Why the board of inquiry? Let's make, gentlemen of the government, a survey committee to once and for all remove the shadow from those 2016 elections. As early as the night of the election, around 10:00 p.m., then the prime minister, and the current president of the state, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic said three electoral lists would not enter parliament. There are also tone records about it. We believe that it has exerted some kind of pressure on RIK, and that this has resulted in 95% of the votes being counted in a total of 48 hours, and from that day to today we are still counting from the other 5% of the vote. We believe that it was not possible and that 60 subsequent advertisements to the election process, which were very interestingly adopted by the RIK, caused that the then list on which the Serbian Movement was missing, I must remind the citizens of Serbia, 0.25 votes, so a quarter of one man. In fact, the Dvori, according to these first preliminary results, had 4.999999.99.99%. Gentlemen, you said then that then some foreign embassy introduced the Serbian Movement of the Dvora into the Assembly, and then you talked and now you mention it. I'd just like to see when, as well as some material proof of your stories, but one survey board, where representatives of all parliamentary parties would sit, could finally shed some light on those elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25231	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Ivan Kostic suggested that the session agenda be completed with a point – the proposal for a declaration on the protection of Cyrillic and the preservation of Serbian-based literary and cultural treasures. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25232	Dear People's MPs, we believe that this proposal is extremely important to be adopted in the National Assembly of Serbia. Many will say that the member of the Constitution has already defined all this, but only when we enter the hall of the Serbian Parliament when we reach the table where the MPs are signed can we see that half of the MPs are signed with Latin. So, we understand those people who have grown up in one system since 1945 where the Cyrillic has not favored but why now this Assembly would not be the body that, as MP Vesovic said, would give wind to the back and institutions and new generations to protect the Cyrillic as a letter and to put it in the place it belongs to. We have had opportunities here to hear over the past few months that some MPs have said that the Latin is a Serbian letter and that the Latin is a Serb tradition. I'll tell you that's not true. The first meaning of Latina, the integration of Latina and the Serbian people continues in the mid-19th century for the needs of Austria in the Republic of Croatia. For this was hired a linguist, Ljudevit Gaius, who unfortunately was neither Croatian but was of German origin. He also took advantage of the moment in co-operation with all those people from our people who were members of the Illyrian movement to impose Latina primarily on Serbs living outside the borders of central Serbia today, living in the areas of today's Krajina. He did so successfully, but unfortunately the problem is that the Serbian people are taking the Latin as a Serbian letter today. We can ask a question here, and someone say by the linguists, is there anywhere in the world that one language has two letters? Just let him say if he has it and whether it's used in use. I will also read to you here what Ljudevit Guy said about this, because we have raised and introduced literature in Ilir, it has never fallen to us from far away to claim that it is not a Serbian but an Illyrian language, and we are glad that among Croats and Serbs there is now one literary language. That's what Ljudevit Guy said where he openly said that Croatian is actually a Serbian language. So we can now argue that the Cyrillic is not being respected today, and therefore the Dvora movement proposes this declaration where it will be decidently said that there is an amendment to the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, that public institutions must respect the Serbian letter. We have an opportunity to see that even some congregation services a year and a half ago couldn't issue documents on Cyrillic. We kept that quiet so we wouldn't talk about it, but many media, public institutions, and here's one of the biggest media poisoners on the Serbian media scene PINK put his inscription on the Latin.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25233	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ivan Kostic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly on the protection of Serbs in the dispersion and region. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25234	As many are now not interested in considering the Cyrillic declaration, I hope that the time will come soon when all the topics that the Davers have been processing for the last 15 years will come to be talked about here in the Assembly and that you yourselves who advocate some national values will see how much you miss out on what these things are not on the agenda of the Assembly, because these topics have not been dealt with by this government for six years. As for the declaration on the protection of Serbs in the divisive region, it has been several months since the Republic's president's promise to finally write the declaration, as he said about the protection of the Serb language and cultural heritage. There is November, there is nothing left and we expect and we want to see if that will also be another false promise that he will deceive patriotic voters to do something about the position of Serbs in the region. I can tell you in fact, since I have been dealing with this topic for two years, very little has been done to protect Serbs in the region. If something had been done today would not have happened if Serbian monuments had been destroyed in the Federation of BiH, it would not have happened if Serbs did not have the right to declare their name and last name in Albania. It would not happen if we were to be signed on the Cyrillic in Croatia, to be forbidden by Serbian lawmakers to speak Serbian. That children in Montenegro, and there are 30% of Montenegrin citizens who declare themselves Serbs, have no right to use textbooks in Serbian language in primary schools in Montenegro. So, you are reluctantly making us create a generation of young Serbs who will not know how to write in their own letter, speak their own language, and this particular government will be the government that at least made the position of the Serb people in the region better. As far as state institutions are concerned, neither state institutions operate in accordance with the Constitution. The diaspora assembly doesn't work, the diaspora administration hasn't had three years of directors. These are just some of the things that were the cause that Dvori had to write this declaration about the protection of Serbs in the dispersion and the region, because they are aware that some things stand at a dead end. And some of the things that are just being said here are that there is no effect if the Government of the Republic of Serbia has certain financial resources to help Serbs in the region, it is good and should be welcomed, but without signing bilateral agreements with countries in the region, the position of the Serb people in the region will never be improved. So we have to pay attention to what's happening to us around here and do something concrete for these people.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25235	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ivan Kostic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on the NDH genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25236	We had a chance to hear today that many countries in the world had adopted the declaration and acknowledged the genocide of the Armenian people. We Serbs who experienced such genocide in the Second World War in NDH should ask ourselves whether it is possible that 70 years of the Jasenovac theme was not mentioned in the Republika Srpska Assembly until last year. We had the opportunity to participate and open an exhibition on Jasenovac in April this year. Unfortunately, I am surprised that such an exhibition that was an art masterpiece was not accompanied in the media in the way it deserved. It is simply proof that for this government and the topic is not a priority topic, or that the government is under pressure from some particular lobbies in the inability to put this topic, as a topic to be discussed in the Republika Srpska Assembly. November 29. In 2016, the Committee for Diaspora and Serbs in the region directed a declaration to then Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic on the protection of a culture of memory of the 20th century Serb death and a resolution on the NDH genocide against Serbs, Jews, Roma in World War II a year ago. There's no answer. What happened to these declarations and resolutions? Is anyone discussing them, whether the Foreign Ministry has raised the issue of whether these things should be put on the agenda and whether it is possible for us, with such capital in our hands, not to go to the international and world public and to clear ourselves as a genocide people. People, we here a year ago in the Assembly had an initiative from certain MPs from Serbia to submit a declaration to the National Assembly on genocide in Srebrenica on their own people. Is it possible that we kept it quiet, and these things we have in our hands we do not use, primarily in front of the international public, because this is not only a problem with the relations of the Serbian and Croatian people, this is a problem of neo-fascism in the areas of the Balkans. This is what international institutions have established. You see what is happening in Croatia today, so the policy of neofascism in Croatia is always relevant to Serbs, I am surprised by the people here who are in the ruling party, which is originating in the Krajina to keep quiet, that they do not have the authority of their party president, Aleksandr Vukic, to tell – friend, put this on the agenda, solve this problem that has plagued the Serbian people for 70 years. So I urge you to propose a resolution of genocide and finally adopt it during the reign of your champions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25237	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Just a minute. (Alexander Martinovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. There's no agenda, I'm sorry. Yeah, but there isn't. We'll check with the service. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Zoran Radojicic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25238	The respected chairman, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, from the state tradition of the Serbian people and its historical rights to the AP Kosovo and Metohija, therefore as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, bearing in mind that KIM is a historical and state-owned, spiritual and cultural headquarters, so the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, particularly seeing that, without the physical return of the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia to the territory of KIM, it is not possible to implement a constitutional norm on the uniform legal order applicable to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, including the AP Kosovo and Metohija, in view of the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, having in mind the principle, the unequivocal position of the SPC, therefore that the state authority of Serbia must never give its consent to the alienation of KIM, because what it is taken into account. We suggested a resolution. So, the Republic of Serbia, in accordance with international public law, the Constitution, does not recognise the will of citizens and will never recognise, therefore, the unilaterally declared independence of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, by illegal authorities in Pristina. Kosovo and Metohija are an integral and inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia currently under occupation, which should be notified to the international public without delay. No citizen of the Republic of Serbia who is in public office has the right, therefore, to sign a binding document that will legally alienate the AP of Kosovo and Metohija as part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia undertakes to suspend any kind of communication and negotiations in Brussels with representatives of Pristina's illegal authorities led by the European Union. It undertakes the Government of the Republic of Serbia to annul all written and oral agreements reached in Brussels with representatives of Pristina's illegal authorities, with the intervention of the EU, since it is an unconstitutional, therefore, illegal private political contracts of non-authorised persons. The government undertakes to order all political organisations and individuals on occupied territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, involved in the work of illegal authorities in Pristina, who recognise, implement and bring acts within the framework of an illegal Pristina system, to immediately step forward and deny their support, etc., with a total of 20 points. What I must stress is that this resolution is the first act to be called for and the international demarcation agreements between the legal predecessors of the Republic of Serbia and Albania, which is no doubt an argument in favour of the claim that KIM is part of the Republic of Serbia bordering Albania. Also, this resolution on the Act of Determining the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to remove the fight to preserve KIM from the form of Brussels bureaucracy, therefore, which operates on the principles of conditioning of so-called. Serbia's European path by pulling into AP KIM territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25239	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find the proposal not accepted. Ambassador Zoran Radojicic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the point of the proposal for a declaration of honour to the citizens of Serbia of non-Serbian nationality killed for the country. The word is Zoran Radojićic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25240	Thank you, Chairman. With regard to the fact that, according to the Constitution, the Republic of Serbia, the state of the Serbian people and all citizens who live in it, has stood out for their courage and sacrifice in the war through our history, especially remembering that in the Balkan wars, the First World War, the Second World War, as well as the country's defence wars from 1991 to 1999, warring and sacrificing for Serbia, many citizens of non-Serb nationalities died, the National Assembly should bring one declaration of honor to the citizens of Serbia, non-Serb nationalities killed for their country. There's four things to be determined, first of all. It is, therefore, to pay tribute to all non-Serb nationalities who gave their lives, fighting wars on the part of the Serbian state. In another point, they would call as the National Assembly of the Competent Institution of the Republic of Serbia to honor these heroes by raising monuments, which would mark their contribution to the fight for freedom of our common country. In point 3, we propose as the National Assembly to make a complete list of all non-Serb nationalities who gave their lives to the country wars, so that their names are not forgotten. The National Assembly in the fourth point would suggest that a special day for the protectors of country and state unity as a state holiday, marking the memory of all those killed for Serbia's freedom. Since he's a member of the 1st. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia defined as the state of the Serbian people and all citizens living in it, we also take into account this centuries-old multiethnicity and multiculturality of the area in which other people live along with our Serbian people. The declaration particularly wants to draw attention to domestic but also to the world public for the absence of any kind of xenophobia and intolerance and Shofinism and national intolerance, when it comes to the majority Serb people towards non-Serb people. It is evident, of course, that in all the aforementioned wars of the Balkans, the First World, Second World, defensive country wars, that all those who are not members of the Serbian people were killed and killed for our country, and that they should be taken into account and highlighted the bright examples of all patriotism in order to raise and educate future generations in the spirit of patriotism and love of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25241	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a draft bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Information and Media. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law amending the Law on corporate tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point-by-point draft law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point-by-point draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Assembly. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Does the MP want a word? He's not here, okay. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point-by-point draft law amending the Law on textbooks. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board, to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the destruction of buildings in Belgrade, in a part of the town known as Savamal on 25 April 2016. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25242	Thank you, Chairman. The proposal for the establishment of a survey committee, which should examine everything that happened and how the state authorities acted, first of all, on the night of 24 April 2016, we submitted it almost a year and a half ago in early June 2016. Unfortunately, a few dozen times, it seems to me, but this proposal, which has been tabled by colleagues from other parliamentary groups, as well as by our parliamentary group, has not been supported by MPs, and unfortunately, because of the failure of other state authorities, which should, in this case, be dealt with, I mean the prosecution and the police, to this day the Serbian public does not know who they are, who they are, who ordered to tear down facilities in Savamalaj, that Serbian citizens are being deprived for several hours, that the police are not responding for all this time. But let's do it one more time, and every time we explain our initiative to discuss this in the Assembly, I remind you of a few important things, which is that then the Prime Minister, today's President of the Republic, first said that complete idiots were doing it, and a few days later that people from the top of the city were responsible. So for a year and a half, apart from the fact that the complete idiots at the top of the city government ordered and organized the destruction and deprivement of the freedom of Serbian citizens, we have not received an answer as to who these people are, who are their names, we have no answer whether the prosecution heard Mr. Vukic, who apparently knows who the complete idiots from the top of the city government are. If for no other reason, we believe that this Survey Committee would have to answer these questions – what are the names and last names of complete idiots from the top of the city government? If we had gotten those names earlier, there would probably not have been this many other procedures that could only be explained if they had been made by complete idiots from the top of the city government, Belgrade would not have been treated with New Year's lighting in September, three streets would have been unearthed for several months, thereby blocking the entire transport in the City of Belgrade and various other things, which I repeat only can be explained by organising them and making complete idiots from the top of the city government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25243	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25244	Thank you. The proposal for this law and the Law on Income Tax are the proposals of two bound laws, which, if they came to the Assembly's agenda, would make sense that as a rare time when they are discussed in a joint search and that the solutions proposed are adopted at the same time, so that they can justify their purpose and their idea. The idea is that this country finally ends with the harmful economic policy it is implementing, here for the sixth year, the sixth year of poor catastrophic economic policy that has led to the fact that the debt of the Republic of Serbia by those six years, five and a half years, has increased more than 10 billion euros, that the debt situation today is 65% of GDP, that for those six years GDP growth is the lowest in the region, if the growth rate in the region was 4%, GDP growth for the five and a half years was 1.8%. This measure is very simple, it comes from the fact that the government here a year ago coming to parliament and asking for amendments to exactly the Law on the financing of local self-government, said that local self-government has enough money and that five billion dinars a year, how much they earn from the municipalities of income tax citizens are not needed, and that by changing and reducing the percentage by 5%, or 10% in the case of cities, budgets, or performing local self-government functions, and that allegedly, local self-government has accepted this reduction coming from the government, and that no problems in the functioning of local self-government will be. Today, a year later, we can see that it wasn't true. That local self-government, as 90% of cases are driven by non-professional SNS personnel, are convulsing in debt, cannot provide enough money to finance the most basic activities, such as cleaning cities and municipalities, such as funding and maintaining schools, health homes, care for the socially endangered. None of these municipalities have any, but I'm saying, we've heard here that they agree to this reduction, so since they're agreeing, we're suggesting that this reduction stay.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25245	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25246	Thank you, Chairman. The idea is to keep the funding of local self-government at the level that is now, and to reduce the income tax of citizens, to say almost symbolically that tax rate from 10% to 9%. In fact, six years ago, when the ruling majority came to power in addition to the various promises of three dinar bread, 100 billion dollars and so forth, we heard that it would go into disbursement of the economy, I believe some people believed it. But five and a half years later, we can find out that it was all a lie. One single law did not reduce the rate of burden on the profits of the economy. We've changed the percentages, how much money is being allocated to the PIO fund in relation to the Health Fund, while this rate of income tax is not changing. We suggest that, as I said earlier, local self-governments don't need five billion dinars a year, because we have heard here from then minister, and the current Prime Ministers, that they have no problem and that they can function, that they can then reduce this amount, that's about exactly five billion dinars, less annually than they would remain in the Republic of Serbia's budget, but they would remain more in the people who pay this tax, in the economy that could use that money for some investment, for further development and development of their production, perhaps for some minimum increase and salaries of their employees. All of what, unfortunately, first of all, domestic businessmen do not have a chance, given that they are not on the list of privileged investors whose government, each year from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or from the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, gives generously millions and billions of dinars, to factories which unfortunately do not employ citizens of Serbia indefinitely, but keep them on contracts of three or six months, as the Labour Law has now made possible, in this way these people cannot exercise their most elementary rights of protection at work in case, God forbid, they get sick. We've seen cases that the employer doesn't extend the work contracts with them and leave them, practically, without health care. We think this reduction is symbolic, but necessary, and it makes a step in the direction that must lead to real economic recovery.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25247	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 22, against – no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the public sector pay system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25248	The public sector wage system law was passed, of course, when it received the IMF's consent, as did the budget, which still, although the legal deadline had passed 15 days ago, did not come to the republic's parliament, because it is awaiting the IMF's consent. This law was done in a way that further reduced rights and further threatened the economic situation of public sector employees. It led to professional people leaving the public sector, since they were not stimulated to stay and work. In fact, there are no elements in the law that will allow those who work and who know in the public sector to be adequately rewarded for their work. From the government, instead of having a payment law in 2017, we have been listening to promises for a year that this law will come on the agenda. I remind you, under this law that was passed in February 2016, the deadline for the adoption of the payment law was the end of 2016. At the end of 2016, the Minister at the time, the current Prime Minister, came to explain to us that she had not been able to do the job and that she needed an extension of six months. She didn't respect that deadline. Just a few days before the deadline was due as a reward, it was won to advance from the post of Prime Minister to the post of Prime Minister, in an absolutely incredible case in democratic countries, that someone who has never gone to democratic elections, for whom no citizen of the Republic of Serbia has cast a vote, comes to perform the highest political position in the country, the post of Prime Minister. Now, such a Prime Minister has promised us in her exposé that what she has failed to do in more than a year, that the new minister will do by the end of this year. By the end of this year, there are 45 days left, and I am very skeptical that this job will be done, and it will certainly not be done in a way that we here in parliament can discuss it. We'll probably get that bill, if we get it at all, in a budget and a bunch of other laws, and we'll adopt it back-to-back here, without anyone being able to talk about it, to devote ourselves to the solutions that these laws provide. So I suggest you adopt this proposal now that it is obvious that there is no... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25249	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. No proposal accepted. Ambassador Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be completed at the point – the draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25250	Thank you. For three years and a few weeks in Serbia, the Law on the temporary arrangement of pension payments, which came here to the Assembly, to remind those who may not remember it, contained in themselves the provision that it would be final with the pension payment of December 2017. Pensions then reduced 15% to one number of Serbian citizens, 20% to 25% to those who had a pension that they gained through their entire work in life, decreased by 25%. At that time, the bill found the solution that the law would be applied in a final manner with a pension payment for December 2017. The amendment that deleted this sentence was then adopted, explaining that the government believes that before this deadline conditions will be created for the suspension of this provisional law, as stated in its title. Unfortunately, today, about two months before that deadline, we can realize that the government lied to Serbian citizens and lied to MPs in parliament, because the government has no intention of suspending this law on the temporary arrangement of the way pensions were paid. What the government is doing is trying to increase pensions to all pensioners trying to explain how this is the best government and how pensions today are the biggest. Of course, that's not the case. Anyone who looks at statistics a little can see that in 2016, when the increase was 1.5%, or in 2015 inflation was 1.7% and the increase of all pensions was 1.25%. Then, in 2016, when inflation was 1.8%, the increase was 1.5%. The pension increase is now announced by 5% in the year when inflation is almost 3%. Here, yesterday the last data was released. Inflation is currently 2.8% and is likely to increase to 3% by the end of the year. In a situation like this, it's said that pensions will be bigger than ever the least said is insolence and lies. That's why I'm asking you to adopt a proposal for this law to suspend the law on the temporary arrangement of the way in which pensions are paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25251	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. No proposal accepted. Ambassador Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25252	Thank you. For more than two years, we have been trying to amend the Value Added Tax Act through this form, but also through the format of the amendment when the Bill on Value Added Tax usually comes with the budget, we gain the majority for the adoption of this little change. According to our law, baby food is subject to a general rate of 20 percent added tax. What we're asking is that baby food is taxed at a special rate of 10%. The only time we had some discussion on this topic was when we discussed our amendment that is the same as this law, we received a reply from the minister that he does not believe that this change would lead to a decrease in prices in baby food retailing, to burden the work of the tax administration and to open up a space for abuse. However, the government did not prevent several years of various other things from releasing general tax rates on additional value and from reducing in the event of purchase, I don't know, I think, the heater and some other things, the general rate from 20 to 10%. It is obvious that the government does not see the problem of the demographic situation in Serbia as large, worrying and dramatic, which has even led to the fact that we have a government member, a portfolio-free minister, in charge of the area alone, that all of this is not enough to take some concrete action. We are constantly hearing announcements that something will be done, but still, some more than a year and a half since the government's election, with one change from June this year, we do not have a single proposal dealing with the issue of the population situation in Serbia, the demographic situation in Serbia and a proposal for a solution. I call on you, fellow MPs, not to wait for the government anymore, not to wait for announcements from the government that something will be done, I suggest we put this bill on the agenda, see if we can and in any way further help families with children, those who buy baby food, those who buy baby equipment, which is 50% more expensive in all statistics in Serbia than in the EU, although the salaries in the Republic of Serbia are fourth in Europe from behind.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25253	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by points – draft law on the proposed law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25254	Since I was most concerned about how this law should prevent the government from delivering laws by emergency procedure, and thus justified its adoption, given that there are no laws on the agenda today, I am not going to discuss today the proposal and explain the proposal of this law on the agenda. I'll honor one precedent, I'm afraid, that the laws the government is sending us are not being debated here by an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25255	Thank you. I'm putting the bill to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25256	So the Law on Public Media Services was supposed to cover up a fraud committed by SNS authorities to Serbian citizens. In 2012, it was said that the tax on electric numbers financed by the public media service would be abolished. Then we waited two years to pass a law that eventually, after two and a half years of tax and abolished, but then only a few months later was passed a new Law on Public Media Service, which now envisioned a radio-television fee, a different name and was intended to make the board of public media services, which should make up respected media factors, people with knowledge and experience, which is all but a situation today, so these people were supposed to come up with a proposal for how public media service to secure the payment of this fee. Then this and such board of directors, perhaps just a little bit better than what they are today, came up with a brilliant idea that this tax is recharged with an electricity bill, only now you can't pay this fee. First, when you pay the bill for the electricity delivered, 150 dinars go to the public media service, and then your debt EPS is settled, because such a legal solution, which is here at the suggestion of the board of public media services, was adopted by the Assembly. By adopting such a solution that did not follow the spirit of the law, we have received the fact that Serbian citizens cannot free themselves from paying taxes on public media services if they have more numbers in their household. First of all, in rural areas, where they exist, where they were built part by part of the house or part by part of the household, and then some auxiliary room or barn or garage was later built, and for each of them a new electric number was taken. Today these citizens have to pay for every electric fee. This tax may not be that big today, but surely it will be in the future and we think we should correct that injustice and create an opportunity by amending the law to free citizens from paying taxes if they have more than one electric number in their name.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25257	Thank you. I'll put you to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25258	Since the government was formed in April 2014, then, the prime minister of the government said one of the priorities of passing this law and was tasked with passing the law by Minister Alexander Vulin. For two years, the ministry has been a rule of some working group, an analysis, and I don't know what, and in the end, there hasn't been any draft law resolution. It's been said -- there's been an election, so now we're going to be doing this whole thing all over again. Then the change of the minister and what we hear today were re-announced that the bill would be passed. In all this time, for more than two years, there has been a proposal from our SDS parliamentary group – the People's Party for certain solutions that this law covers. These are the solutions to ensure that instead of today 25% of children of all Serbia receive a children's supplement that this coverage of children increases to 50%, which should enable a solution to reduce censorship taking into account the real state of those who should be supported by the state, according to the Constitution and the law, should enable single parents of whom one third lives at risk of poverty, one third of single parents live in households with less than 10,000 dinars per month' income. The situation in Serbia with poverty is worse because of the government's work and economic policy year after year. Serbia is today the first in Europe in the number of poor and the number of people at risk of poverty. Those numbers are even more dramatic in children. Every third child in Serbia today is threatened by poverty. Unfortunately, this law that should be the basic law to help the family with children has not changed for eight years. It is impossible that policies adopted and implemented through this law eight years ago today can be applied. The government is aware of that, but for my completely unknown reason this law has not been able to come to the agenda for three and a half years. Unfortunately, we have again an announcement that this law will come by the end of the year. I would love to, but I'm afraid we won't have time to discuss it and there won't be any of the best-quality solutions needed today to support families with children in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25259	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Culture. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25260	Thank you, President. For dozens of times over the past year and a half, we tried to put the Assembly’s agenda on the amendment and addition of the Law on Culture. About the importance of culture every time I used one of the statements and today I would repeat a statement by Winston Churchill who said that when they suggested that the culture budget in Great Britain be reduced during World War II, that is to say to end the maintenance of cultural events, he said, "So why are we at war? In what way do we defend our society and our country if we don't have a culture and end our culture ourselves? “ Unfortunately, this government’s policy is such that from year to year the funds found in the cultural budget are getting smaller and smaller. Our changes are in two relatively small segments. For my vague reason, given that in the proposal for a law on culture, when it was written in the ministry two years ago, where there was a definition that cultural activity and artistic photography were deleted. We suggest that artistic photography be classified as a cultural activity in the definition of cultural activities, and not to be considered as a part of some applied art or digital creation and multimedia, since artistic photography is not just that. On the other hand, we propose a solution to the national pensions of the most prominent cultural workers in Serbia. We propose a solution that is identical to a solution for the national pensions of the most successful athletes of the Republic of Serbia, who, when they win a medal at the World or European Championship, have the right to make a special national pension when they come in years. Unfortunately, our Culture Act such a similar possibility to the most successful artists, who in world and European competitions receive the highest international prestigious recognitions, do not give. He gives the government the opportunity to decide whether or not they will be entitled to these pensions. We believe that this should not be done by the Government and that it should be a matter governed by the law, in the same way that it was solved in the case of top athletes, that it should be solved for both the greatest and most successful cultural workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25261	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law supplementing the Excise Act. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25262	Thank you, President. Today in Serbia, as in the whole world, the Day of Combating Diabetes is marked. Minister Loncar, if he comes in today, he can tell us more about it, I can see that he already had some activity on that plan today and yesterday. Among other things, he stated that in Serbia 710,000 adults suffer from diabetes, more than half of it is a working-age population. He also notes that this disease is increasingly diagnosed in children and adolescents, and this is due to an epidemic of obesity. What we want with this law is to give Serbia one answer to this obesity epidemic that the WHO found at the world level several years ago. As one measure, he suggested imposing excise duties on drinks artificially sweetened. So juice, water and artificially sweetened drinks. Many countries have respected this proposal and WHO recommendations and introduced this excise duty into their economic system, not only for drinks but also for unhealthy, fatty foods. This has led to a dramatic decline in sales and consumption of artificially sweetened drinks in some countries. In Hungary, after 2011, when this measure was introduced, 20% decreased consumption of artificially sweetened drinks. On the other hand, it increased the sale of natural juices, which is certainly something that would benefit Serbia's economy since we as a agricultural country have enough raw materials and to produce natural fruit juices, but we do not use up to full potential. I call on you to adopt this measure, to join a number of countries and a growing number of countries fighting an epidemic of obesity, including this way. Of course, this is not one unique measure that can solve a problem. It is one of many measures that must be taken, but it is one measure that can provide funding to implement some other measures, such as youth education on the need for a healthy diet. I call upon you to adopt this proposal, not to wait for it to come from the government, and I am quite certain that it will come in the future. Please, President, before the vote to determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25263	Please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that 130 MPs are present in the O.R. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25264	Thank you, Chairman. Here, who knows which way I propose laws in the hope that because of the citizens of Serbia, and not because of us who propose these laws, you will put it on the agenda. The law I propose amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government refers to the obligation to establish local communities in local self-government territories, whether in the city, or in the rural area. Also, in this law, I propose one more thing, which is that 80% of the property tax collected in the territories of these local communities is transferred directly from local budgets to their councils, so that they can determine for themselves what their priorities are, to invest, to build, and to create activists at the lowest level of government in the state of Serbia. Unfortunately, that's not worth your attention, but here's a longer set of congregations, years, however you want, simply, everything that's about decentralisation, everything that's about reducing the direct power of central government in Serbia, it doesn't suit you. It says that you are not prepared, even if you are talking about changing the electoral law in Serbia that would reduce your power, even though, while you were opposition, you have advocated it, above all, your President Aleksandar Vukic. This suggests that you reduce funding to municipalities and cities in Serbia each year. The most recent example is the new law on the financing of local self-government, which you took away 4.8 billion dinars from local self-government, and you did not reduce any jurisdiction, on the contrary, you increased their jurisdiction. So, there is no democracy and there is no system in Serbia until decentralisation is carried out, and I mean first of all fiscal decentralisation, and until all the levels of government in Serbia have some autonomy, and until we motivate the best of us who live in this country, who are ready to work and fight for society and for the community they live in, they want to do this job and deal with it. This way everything became a farce. You made a farce out of the state. It simply all comes down to the desire of certain political powers that at some point govern Serbia. You have no desire in Serbia to change neither the system of values nor the system of institutions simply suits you with anarchy, and then, in line with who is nearer to you, who invests more in you, that you may be better to him. Or, if it has any political benefits for your political organisations, then you are ready to, like some cities in Serbia, such as Belgrade, to whom you have given 100 million, Zaječar 380 million and others whom you simply as Santa give away certain funds and thus conceal the incompetence of local officials.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25265	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: it is a vote—13 against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working in accordance with the Rules of Procedure today and after 18 hours, for the purpose of establishing today's agenda. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by a point - the draft law supplementing the Law on corporate tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25266	Thank you. Also, one very important legal proposal. As far as business is concerned, it concerns the situation in which our domestic entrepreneurs are operating in Serbia. Of course, no act of you as authorities, in the last five years to improve the economic environment that would ultimately result in greater economic growth in Serbia and a lower unemployment rate, realistically, not the one you're talking about. However, this is based only on empty stories, lies and promises that you make over and over again to businesses in Serbia. So in 2016, one in a number of economy ministers declared that year as a year of enterprise with promises that over 40 legislative proposals would change, that an economic environment for our entrepreneurs in Serbia would improve. Of course, none of that ever happened. I therefore propose that this law reduces the rate, i.e. the basis for calculating the profit tax for the amount of net earnings paid to those employees who are employed indefinitely, and that all entrepreneurs who are newly established in underdeveloped areas of the Republic of Serbia be freed of their taxes. Of course, you don't want to put this on the agenda, you don't want to discuss this, because our entrepreneurs aren't interesting to you. You find those who come to Serbia in search of cheap labour to display a false picture of the development of the economy interesting. What's the truth? It is true that today in Serbia you have, unfortunately, 39,600 companies in the blockade, which is 30% more than in the same period last year. The amount of the blockade is 2.5 billion dinars, which is 45% more than last year in total. Today in Serbia, your authority, gentlemen, owes 33 billion dinars of VAT return to economic operators in the Republic of Serbia who have received a solution for VAT refund, but you do not pay them back because for campaign purposes you need to show you a false picture of a fake surplus in the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's why you have so many blockeds, because people have been waiting for their own money for months to be taken from them by an irresponsible state. That is why Serbia is now in line with the lowest average earnings in Europe. Serbia today is the country with the lowest minimum earnings in the region with 189 euros. Serbia today is a country that has lower profits than Angola, than Libya, Zambia, Congo, Swaziland, Gibuti and whoever you want to count. This is the result of your work and Serbia is today a country with GDP growth of 1.66% in the cumulative pool for the last three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25267	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine dreams in the media after the privatisation process. The word is Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25268	In May of this year, I applied for the education of the polling committee to determine the situation in the media after the privatisation process, i.e. the adoption of a set of media laws in the Republic of Serbia. I submitted because from the moment of media privatisation and the adoption of this set of media laws over Serbia was overcome by media darkness. Because you're under a parole to come out as a state of ownership of the media in Serbia, you've replaced your influence through media ownership with financial media control. So today, in addition to being technically not the owners of the media of people close to the regime and SNS, it seems in practice to control 90% of the media in Serbia by giving them money from the budget again, both the Republic and the Republic of the public enterprises, and local self-government, i.e.. You give them money from the citizens of Serbia. Then you abuse those media and they serve exclusively for the regime campaign and the SNS authorities. They serve to promote false, to promote instability, immorality, and everything you can see on the cover of the tabloids. Today in Serbia, you are playing with the media, so you have an example of TV Kragujevac you privatised, and then you returned from that owner to the city again and the city has given 80 million dinars of taxpayers and citizens of Kragujevac to that television again. On the other hand, you have an example of the City of Belgrade that singled out 80 million for the project financing of the media, but there was no place among these media outlets for either Beta or Blic, or for the newspaper "Today", or for the Media Centre, unlike "Informer", "Aloa", the Serbian Telegraph, which received five million each, Studio B with 23 million and to mention especially the Associations of rock musicians with 6.9 million, some companies, Folim and others who, according to the media, were founded several months before the competition was called. Therefore, it is necessary to urgently determine what the media situation is today, in so far as Minister Vukosavljevic has again announced some new media strategy in Serbia for the end of this year. I call on you to first form a polling committee, which will be composed of representatives of all parties and to determine the actual situation before it enters into the creation of a new strategy, to free the media and to provide media workers with freedom of work, and to enable citizens with a constitutionally guaranteed right to truthfulness and timely information. This is not the case in Serbia today. Today in Serbia, media are serving as a preconceived media campaign through manipulation and lies of the ruling regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25269	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The MP, Miroslav Aleksic, suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government. The word is Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25270	Thank you. This is one of the draft laws that I sincerely believed you would put on the agenda because it has at least to do with politics, and I even talked about it to the Minister of Education at the last session of the Assembly, who said that this should be changed. Otherwise, it's about the scholarship of students and students, it's about the harmonisation of two laws, it's about the Law on student and student standards and the Law on the Completion of the Law on Local Self-Government. So you simply don't want any such law to be passed and thus to allow representatives of local self-government in Serbia and the republican institutions to be able to scholarship the best students and the best students in Serbia without breaking any law and coming into the situation that they may be under the burden of certain applications the next day due to non-compliance with the law or inconsistencies in Serbia. So, you don't want to talk about it yourself, even though I wanted to leave it to the Serbian Progressive Party to propose this law, that means you don't want to talk about something that is the greatest wealth and capital of developed countries in the world, which is intellectual potential. It's our gold, it's our mines. It's a chance today in the developed world of every country. You do nothing in this way to reduce the number of young people leaving Serbia. In the past 10 years, 175,000 people under 30 have left Serbia. There went educated, prepared, capable medical workers and doctors, and teachers and professors, and economists and lawyers, to the world to develop other countries and to give their knowledge, into which they invested their parents along with them, to some other countries. Those for you, unless they represent a safe or capillary voice, as you call it, are of no importance. This is why Serbia faces all these things it faces today. So, I ask you to put this bill on the agenda and make it possible for the best students and the best students to get a scholarship without breaking the law, because they are not in line. Since you have not done so so far on my proposal, I call on any MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, or the Government, or the minister, to put this law on the agenda and thus make it practically possible for all of this that I have talked about so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25271	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25272	Thank you. As you are not interested in young people, so you do not seem to be interested in farmers in Serbia, whom today, in over 630,000 registered agricultural holdings, there are over a million and a half, and according to some estimates and two million who live and work from agriculture. So, agricultural land in Serbia are the largest employer in the Republic of Serbia, and accordingly, such treatment and should be given by the state, but unfortunately that is not true. What you've done in five years of your reign, and here you are entering the sixth year of your reign, you've reduced all payments to farmers in respect of the Law of Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. Therefore, I propose this law to increase incentives, increase milk premiums, regresses to fertilizers, to seeds, because this would be a way to boost the competitiveness of our farmers and facilitate their production. In your White Paper, when you came to power, you promised Serbian farmers that agriculture would be a strategic branch for the development of the economy in Serbia, that each year you would increase the budget by 1%, or the participation of agriculture in the Republic of Serbia's budget. He was 5% then, and today he's 4%. You didn't increase it, you cut it down. In parallel, from year to year, you increase the burden on our farmers. When a year comes as it was this year's drought, where you say the damage is over a billion euros, what have you done to date, and how have you given aid and support to farmers who have suffered huge damages? You don't think about them, you think about how it will affect the fake image of surpluses and economic growth in the Republic of Serbia, and you don't wonder how our farmers will start next season. They're all just empty promises and they're all lies. On the other hand, these same farmers are not worthy of you to get diesel fuel without excise or tax. They pay the most expensive diesel fuel in the region and we expect them to participate in GDP. Well, gentlemen, I urge you to adopt this law and show in part that you are ready to help farmers, to help that economic branch that employs the most people today in Serbia and thus help both the state and the farmers. As far as I can see, what can be read in the media, the agricultural budget will be reduced in the following year, which doesn't cheer me up, so I don't believe you'll adopt this either, but that really speaks of your commitment, your promises and everything you've said in the past five years. Farmers can expect more from you than just new imposes through the coaches for seasonal work.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25273	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on special measures to prevent the conduct of criminal acts against the full freedom of minors. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25274	President, honourable vice-presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are as the Social Democratic Party and the Social Democratic Party Group - The People's Party has proposed more than 50 laws in this assembly, but the Serbian Progressive Party does not allow any proposed law to be discussed. One of these laws is also a law that should introduce integrity plans into political parties. The integrity plans are something to help prevent corruption. The Serbian Progressive Party had a full mouth of the fight against corruption in the 2012 campaign, and when it came to power, it did not want to change any single law that would help the country not to be the most encumbered in corruption among all the countries of Europe today. Political parties are a source of corruption, and I think that's what the citizens of Serbia think. In order for political parties not to be the source of corruption, we need to do something about it, which is to bring together integrity plans. The Serbian Progressive Party could in the plan determine what are the hubs of corruption in political parties and consider whether one man is allowed to finance the party's political campaign more than the law says it is possible. It's corruption. In order for this not to happen, we need to introduce integrity plans into our law and political parties. Why is the Serbian Progressive Party afraid of that? Because he's afraid he won't be able to fund himself against the law anymore. All officials in this country come from political parties, and if they learn in a political party to be subject to corruption, they also transfer that corruption to state authorities. Gentlemen, let us arrange the political parties from which we all come and be conscious of the people who are in political parties so that they cannot act against the law. There is no illegal financing of a political campaign, no illegal financing of a political party. Millions of euros from the gray zone spend on a political campaign, bring against the law into the funds of political parties. It's a felony. But let's even go from being prescribed in our acts that it's not allowed and that's how we educate members of political parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25275	Ten seconds more talking, thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Property Tax Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25276	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SDS has been trying for three years, three years we've been trying to convince the SNS to discuss property tax in this House. You're a pain in the ass. You've got citizens on your neck. You've raised your property tax 200 to 300% as much as you don't want to discuss it in parliament. You don't want to because you don't feel the pain of Serbian citizens. Because you have incomes and incomes like that, you have no problem paying your property tax. You don't think about those who can't pay for it. You amended the law in 2013. So for four years, you've been charging 300 percent more taxes than before, and that's not enough for you, because the economy is doing nothing. Two weeks ago, the city of Belgrade decided to increase the property tax by another 2%. Why? 'Cause that's how much it takes for ice screens? Does it take you so long for a New Year's lighting set in September of the month? As much as the government needs money, it's going to raise a tax on property that affects every citizen in this country. The property tax goes into every house. What did you accomplish with that? That's how you achieved that citizens who don't have the money to pay this tax have to sell their property, have to sell their apartments and houses. Who's gonna buy that? Probably those who have made enormous wealth in the last four or five years. They'll buy cheap apartments and homes for people who don't have the money to pay property taxes. Do you feel any responsibility for that? Do you think it's a luxury for a four-member family to live in an 80-square apartment? It's not a luxury. It is the right of citizens guaranteed by the Constitution, that they can enjoy their property and have the right to live. Don't make them out of their apartments with too many taxes. Is it normal to raise the tax 300% in one day, to subtract 25% of pensions in the same day, 22% of whom, 10% in the public sector from wages, to introduce electricity excise in one day? Who can take it? How can a citizen protect himself from an irresponsible state? Is there a law in this country, is there a Constitution, is there any possibility of protecting ourselves from irresponsible authority? Tomorrow, it may come to mind that after the elections in Belgrade, it will take another 200% to raise taxes, to cover campaign costs. What are we gonna pay for that? We propose by this law that the tax be limited, limited, no more than 7% a year...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25277	Thanks, time. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the General Administrative Procedure Act. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there are no abstentions for—nine, against—there are no abstentions. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25278	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, apparently the government of Ana Brnabic will fall and the parliamentary elections will be closer to us. Since the parliamentary elections are nearing us, I have suggested that the Law on the selection of MPs be amended, that we try to correct everything that is wrong with that law, and much is wrong with it. It's not even a good election system, which we need to talk about, but you won't be running that internal dialogue. You don't really want to have any dialogue at the Serbian Parliament. You won't speak once or twice of the over 150 draft laws proposed by the opposition MPs. Why are you afraid to talk about laws? Why are you afraid to pass a new Law on the selection of MPs to meet the recommendations of the OSCE? In this country, after the 2016 elections, the OSCE made recommendations, none were met. After the presidential election, in 2017 the OSCE made recommendations, none were met. Well, does the SNS think we should join the OSCE? We were one of the founders of that organization. Do we, as a member of the OSCE, who does not respect the recommendations of that body of which we are a member, still need to be in the membership. You're afraid to change the law, because you can't win the election in a regular and fair election game. You are afraid because you will fall from power, you will fall from power in Belgrade, you will fall from power in parliamentary elections. For a year and a half, there have been past parliamentary elections, as I propose this law. Every week, the SNS ignores it, ignores it because it has most of the RIK, and it can vote whatever it wants. Most of which is against the law you had in the 2017 elections, the Presidential one, you also voted the result you wanted. In 2016, we all followed the circus to RIK via television. You have determined which sack is to be counted, the one that suits you, and the one that does not suit you cannot be counted. No one's ever been responsible for that. At the polling post where our MP votes, Goran Bogdanovic, 60 votes were in the SDS bag, and in the record zero. Who was responsible for those 60 votes? Who answered that 60 votes were stolen in just one polling post? How many thousands of votes were stolen that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25279	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Elections. The word is by MP Nenada Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25280	Since the Belgrade elections are also coming, we have proposed to amend the Law on Local Elections. The Serbian Progressive Party obviously does not want to discuss this because it wants to bring us into chaos after the election. If there is a suspicion that the elections have been stolen, and that doubt exists unless you want the results to be published from each polling post immediately after the voter's count, then citizens cannot believe in the election process. If citizens do not trust the electoral process, they do not trust institutions and do not trust the rule of law. In that case, anyone can tear down and beat like you did in Savamala on election day. Do you want that to happen again? What's the answer to that? The answer to that, I suppose it should be that protection of citizens' rights is being achieved on the street. That we have demonstrations, that we have chaos on the streets, because we can't end this election process in a different way. Why does the SNS want riots on the streets about the election? Why don't you accept that all members of the election board are trained? Why don't you accept that the records are being scanned? Why don't you accept that votes can only be counted on the election board? Why does it take a commission, a city election commission, to have the right to change records in statistics, to agree on what needs to be brought together? These are all ways of manipulation to produce an election result corresponding to the SNS. Let's go to fair elections once and try to win. Let's discuss this. Why don't you put the law on the agenda so we can go from member to member and see what we can agree on. You can't because the abuse of choice leaves six months before the election. It's going through changes in the election. He's going through the campaign conditions. We also proposed this law when local elections are at stake for candidates to be presented, to be held in public debates related to political programmes, political parties. Why is there no public debate when elections for the capital are on no media? Why can't the SNS go on a show, send his representative, his mayoral candidate, to oppose the opposition candidate. Because he knows that's how he's gonna lose in the election. Gentlemen, don't lead us into electoral chaos. We've got plenty of time to change everything that's wrong with the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25281	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation of Undeclared Income of Citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25282	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am most concerned with the MPs of the SNS who, I suppose, remember that they participated in the 2012 campaign and that you were talking in this campaign about bringing in a law on the origin of the property. What happened when you came to power so you changed your mind and you can no longer bring in one mechanism that will allow the property of each of us, each of us 250 who sit here, every official who sits in the government, every official in the local self-government, every citizen, every single one of your officials? Why are you running away from it? What's the fear? Why did you propose to do this in 2012, and now you're putting your eyes down and you're not allowed to vote, at least to discuss it? Here, the fulfillment of your promises. Let's pass a law on the origin of the property, determine which property he has and what tax he paid when he made the income he used to buy that property. There's nothing from an empty story about fighting corruption and acting against individuals. You came to power by talking about Miskovic. And? There's no verdict. So, I'm not proposing to introduce new crimes here. Obviously, this proved ineffective. We propose to establish for each official from 2000 to now and in the future and for each citizen, whether this is the property he has acquired from the legal income he has paid the tax. If there is a difference between assets and taxed incomes, depending on how much the difference is, they will be taxed by 20%, 40% and 60%. So this is the only way to break the corruption chain in this country and reduce the grey economy. Do you know that, according to estimates, the grey economy in Serbia is 20-30% of GDP, that there is 10 billion euros of cash in the gray zone? That cash generates corruption. Do you know that the developed and most developed countries throw cash out of circulation, that they can only be paid over the cards? Let's once put an end to what's been happening in this country to this day and that we can put everything into legal flows and that in this country everyone pays taxes. Why is the SNS afraid to pay taxes to their officials? Let's talk about this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25283	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25284	Thank you. So we have offered two versions of the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and in one we have worked very specifically on all the funding of the election campaign and on media equality in the election campaign. So, the main recommendation of the OSCE and what citizens can see is that electoral theft starts with an election campaign. In the 2017 elections, the SNS candidate was represented 92% in the media and all other candidates were 8%. A functioning campaign must be separated from a political campaign. It is not allowed in decent and democratic countries to appear as officials while the elections are under way and that it is also a candidate. Ninety-two percent of the time for one candidate and eight percent for everyone else. What fair conditions are we talking about? What can these results be when such abuse of the media is in the campaign? Tens of millions of euros are spent on the campaign. The Serbian Progressive Party spent more than 10m euros on the campaign both in 2016 and 2017. Where'd you get that money? Is that the 40 grand money that paid them? Where did 10m euros come from, and why 10m euros? We propose this law to fund media and media campaigns from the Republic of Serbia's budget directly, by paying from the budgets to television, that there are clear conditions and that we know how much time there is, that all media is available to everyone, that debates on televisions that have a national frequency be mandatory. Why is there no debate among political parties on televisions that have a national frequency that must be attended by representatives of parliamentary parties? That they have the same time and that it's for the parties for free, and that it's paid out of the budget. Otherwise, of the money coming from the budget for funding election campaigns, 99% is spent on the media. All those lenses, all the field campaigns, that's 1%. So these are fair terms. The mechanism for this exists, the OSCE suggests that this is the biggest problem we have in the election process. You won't be able to manipulate it. You won't because in fair elections, the SNS can't win.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25285	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – one, the abstentioned, did not vote – 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposed that the session agenda be complemented by a draft law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 December 2016. Does Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for eight, against—no one, the abstentioned, voted, 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2016. Does Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned, voted for – 11 against – 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2016. Does Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for nine, there is no one who is abstentioned, who has not voted. 139 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2016. Does Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, the abstentioned, voted— 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2017. Does the People's Messenger Mr. Alexander Jerkov want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of – 11 against – no one who is abstentioned – who has not voted for 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dejan Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 July 2017. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted with 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dejan Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 October 2017. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 135 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dr Ana Stevanović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a motion for the resolution of Maja Gojkovic from the post of National Assembly President, which was tabled by a group of 31 MPs to the National Assembly on 13 April 2017. Is he a National MP? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for seven, against one, the abstentioned, there is no vote of 138 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dusan Pavlovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Criminal Code, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Dusan Pavlovic and Saša Radulović, on 22 June 2017. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dusan Pavlovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 July 2017. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dusan Pavlovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 22 June 2017. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, two, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Dr Ana Stevanović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a motion for the resolution of Veroljub Arsic from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly, which a group of 31 MPs submitted to the National Assembly on 13 April 2017. Does National MP Dr Ana Stevanovic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Ana Stevanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25286	I thank the chairman. We believe that National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, as well as Vice-President of the National Assembly Veroljub Arsic, has been in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on the National Assembly, that is, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to this day, of the highest representative body and of the holder of the constitutional and legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia. The way in which the President and Vice-President chair the National Assembly meetings more than clearly proves that they have forgotten their basic obligations as chairman and that the National Assembly institution is not their private property and even less the property of their party colleagues, as well as the fact that all MPs have equal rights and responsibilities. Thanks to the president's actions, for the first time we have the situation that the MPs of opposition MPs are raising their rules of procedure in protest, precisely to point out the speaker's injury to the Rules of Procedure, and that after that, not only do they not get a word, but the chairman, as well as the Vice-President Arsic, they give themselves the right to make fun of it, forgetting the fact that parliamentary groups have been elected by the people, and not by the chairman, as well as by their party colleagues. At the meeting of the National Assembly, the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted, reminding us that no direct address of the MP to another MP, the use of offensive expressions, as well as the lack of facts and evaluations relating to the private life of other persons in accordance with Articles 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure. Thanks to Maja Gojkovic and Veroljub Arsic, scandalous situations are being added to each other, inappropriate statements, rude violation of the Rules of Procedure, all of which have led to the full devising of the function of the president and the degradation of the National Assembly. Finally, what is devastating is the fact that as president and vice president Arsic, they have decided to fully comply with the wishes of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that their laws only run through the Assembly, that they are not discussed in the way envisaged by the Rules of Procedure, and that the public of Serbia remains deprived of information about many legal solutions that the ruling majority vote on the sound of the bell, although these solutions directly affect the living standard and the economic power of our citizens. Thanks to Maja Gojkovic and Veroljub Arsic, who have violated every measure and brutally violated the Constitution-guaranteed right of legal means, they have also given themselves the right to create new measures to maintain order in the session against opposition MPs, in order to try in any way to prevent their voice from being heard in parliament. All I have stated has led to the total degradation of the National Assembly, which has become the executive body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia through this act of the chairman. On the basis of all this, we demand urgent resolution, both President Maja Gojkovic and Vice President Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25287	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: five, against two, abstentions, there is no vote, not 138 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. Honorable Members of Parliament, now in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We'll be back at 3:15.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25288	We're going back to work. Please confirm the quorum. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Capital. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25289	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party has proposed dozens of amendments and additions to the bill, along with just as many survey committees that have shaken all those affairs produced by the government of the Republic of Serbia in five years of its power. When we proposed this law, which is the Capital Act, we said -- let's let the citizens of Belgrade know who they choose in the elections, who that person is voted for, whether it's a man, whether it's a woman, have the right to know who they're going to give a vote to and who they're going to give responsibility to lead them to Belgrade in the next four years. Since this is not an election year, as we have had the opportunity to see, we ask you to gather your courage and adopt our proposal that the mayor be directly elected in the elections in the City of Belgrade. Why? Because citizens want to know which of their mayors and who they will vote for in the next election. Since it obviously can't be for the hundredth time Alexander Vukic, we wanted to allow you in this way to no longer hide behind the president of the Republic of Serbia and to various Vesici, Sinishi Mali, etc. They are taking the city of Belgrade to the heart of the popularity of the President of the Republic. I think it's very important that the citizens know who they choose. This time you won't be able to fool them if you just be honest and adopt this proposal that I claim is not only democratic, but it is indeed more than correct to allow citizens to know who they will trust over the next four years. The election will be early next year. These are regular elections for the City of Belgrade. We have a mayor who's been replaced, we have a city administration that doesn't work, Belgrade is torn apart, and someone, of course, has to be responsible for that. We cannot allow responsibility for the unearthed streets, for the crowds in Belgrade, for poor citizens to be a general place where every day opposition and government have time to argue. They're citizens we have to solve. They want to know who's responsible for these problems. So, let's see why Sinisa Mali, as the deputy mayor, continues to mayor of Belgrade and whether this law can change things and make Belgrade a more efficient and efficient administration, if the citizens of Belgrade have the opportunity to know who they're voting for. Gather your courage, adopt this proposal along with us, so let's see if you can go to those elections and really be fair and democratic...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25290	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 14, v – 14. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Defence Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25291	The law on defence exists in order, above all, to bring legal acts into line with laws defining the status of the Republic of Serbia's Army, the way soldiers today live in their profession and the darkest and most embarrassing things possible. This has not happened since the Serbian Army exists. What today is the position of soldiers in Serbia can be described by shame. Apparently, many who run the government of the Republic of Serbia today, including the minister, are not only running away from responsibility, but they do not want the Serbian Army to obviously exist at all. The defence minister advocates the introduction of mandatory military service because the professional army has collapsed to the poverty line. A soldier today in Serbia not only does he not have a salary to pay his family's bills with, he doesn't have the most basic equipment with which he saves daily, for example. Serbia's border, which absolutely Serbia has not only boasted, but also security with which we can't boast for the past few years. A Serb soldier today, instead of representing the greatest pride for us, clearly for the ruling majority, is a completely irrelevant thing for the simple reason that today's soldier is embarrassed, humiliated, his career is defiled. We must do everything that is up to us, which can, even with legal solutions, improve things and when it comes to their material status, and when it comes to the conditions under which the soldiers are doing their duty today, which is the security of Serbia, the country and its citizens. We can't do it this way, some MPs are nervous, yell and think it's a shame we're proposing better conditions for the Republic of Serbia's Army, to even come to terms when it comes to such important and big issues. We believe that the Army of the Republic of Serbia is on the verge of exhaling. She, if she continues like this, won't exist for the next few years, let alone a decade. This is very important for citizens to know for the simple reason that today's soldier's salary is not as much as it would be needed to support all the costs of family members of the Republic of Serbia's Army, for bills for electricity, tuition and everything they face today. Also, we don't need to talk about how the Army can only dream of apartments that have stopped building since Alexander Vukic came to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25292	Time. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the top authorities in the lawless destruction of buildings in Belgrade's Sava Mali district and to determine the facts of the responsibility of the person who destroyed those facilities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25293	The European Movement in BiH gave Belgrade and the mayor of Belgrade the recognition that the city of Belgrade is the most tolerated city in the region. This is obviously true from the point of view that it is obviously too much tolerance for those who are destroying Belgrade, digging up Belgrade, destroying the fourth in the city centre, burning the embassies, and towards them is more than a big tolerance. So Belgrade's Savamala quarter was torn down on election night in 2016. What is a disgrace to Serbia is a disgrace to both this home and this institution that we have failed to fight for justice so far. You can't tear down someone's home and house and roof on election night and think that's why nobody's gonna answer. You can't tie someone up and take away his freedom without talking about how equal everyone is in front of the law. You can't let that happen when people who are at risk call the police without the police coming out and protecting the citizens who need protection and then talking about security in the capital. It's a disgrace to Serbia. This is a remembered shame and this will remain in Serbia's history, as it is unrecorded that an organised criminal group at the top of the government has organised the collapse of downtown Belgrade to give the land free of charge to its partners and Arab so-called. investors. The Arab investors of many countries in the world are chasing, their judicial authorities and issuing arrest warrants in certain countries in the world. They're on BOLOs. With such partners, you offer the land of Belgrade that you destroy every day, you tarnish its reputation, you tarnish its pride, and thus it will remain the biggest shame recorded in the history of this country and this city. Soon the city of Belgrade will have and manage to defend its freedom. The city of Belgrade will soon have a power to investigate, along with its citizens, the destruction of Savala. I know you're nervous because soon you won't be in power, first in Belgrade, and then in the Republic and your sour smiles confirm it. Believe me, this is what will motivate the citizens to once and for all those organizers from your party, bring the SNS before the pillar of justice because this is the thing that needs to be solved. This is a historic shame you've made for the City of Belgrade and the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25294	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic was proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the points – Proposal for a law on additions to the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25295	Thank you. Democratic Party President Dragan Sutanovac and I have proposed that this law be an integral part of Serbia's positive legislation. With this law, which has absolutely nothing to do with politics, we can protect someone's life. Over 50 lives have been lost because you did not want to accept and pass this law when it was first proposed by Dragan Sutanovac as a national MP. Just because this law is proposed by the Democratic Party, you refused to support it and put it on the agenda at all, even though we said that in every possible way we would give up the debate and the time that this proposal absolutely makes available to us. So, those who have legally acquired weapons by this law, if they're registered thugs in the family, that weapon by force of the law must be taken away. A few days ago, we had an example that a man accused of violence was detained, returned to his house, and with his gun, which he obtained legally, he committed murder. So that's the case you could have prevented, and you didn't want to, but you're just laughing, and that's what's on your shame and on your cheek and on your honor. You could've saved over 50 lives if you didn't go wrong, only you didn't mock DS proposals. That's what values you as SNS and us as DS. We give up all political points, all of us, as we would say, cheap political points. We want this to come to the agenda, that without a single vote, absolutely debates are adopted to save a life tomorrow that may be tragically lost, due to domestic violence. Your mouth is full of words about how important it is to fight domestic violence, and we have been able to hear it a few times so far from the ruling majority. Ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia say laws should be passed as soon as possible to prevent domestic violence. I'm asking you to pass this law to keep someone alive, but you absolutely don't want to consider it. Try to be bigger than it is, put this law on the agenda and we'll give up the debate, I guess, like everyone else in this room. Let's save somebody's life. Let's not read tomorrow in the black chronicle about how someone else with their weapons killed their spouse and thus committed a huge crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25296	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25297	Thank you. We want the interstate agreement between Serbia and the United Arab Emirates to be broken down for a simple reason because it is an agreement that has enabled a lex specialis, or corruption called "Belgrade on Water". It's a little funny after everything the Prime Minister was saying about a million and 800 thousand squares in the Sava amphitheater area at the time. You haven't been able to build a single building in "Belgrade on Water", and that's what makes this project completely funny. Children in Serbia know that it is being stolen on the "Belgrade on Water" project. Children in Serbia know you can't finish a single building, not a single apartment in five years. I will only remind you that during a period of just two and a half years, Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac and building minister Oliver Dulic built over 5,000 apartments in Belgrade, on Vozdovac, Stepa Stepanovic, a whole new settlement was built with more than 15,000 people who moved to the Vozdovac municipality. Five thousand apartments, and you can't have one apartment, let alone a building to be completed in five years in the Sava amphitheater area. It speaks of shame and the value of investing and reducing pensions and reducing wages. To be clear, salaries and pensions have been reduced so that some Arab investor could build this money a shopping mall, a hotel and a building that absolutely no one can sell. It is "Belgrade on Water" and will also be defined by citizens in the next Belgrade elections. What this project represents today is every building in the Sava amphitheater area. To make things even funnier, he has to pay daily according to an expert's report of over 15,000 euros in a pump that will pump water out of the foundation. "Belgrade on Water" has been stopped as a project. He stopped. This is where President Aleksandar Vukic assured us that the million and 800 thousand squares will be completed within three to four years. You haven't finished one apartment in four years. That's what your results are today in Belgrade and Serbia. So does Serbia, as well as "Belgrade on Water". She stopped, nothing was built, citizens were running away from the country and people had no business, the standard of living is getting smaller and smaller. The Belgrade citizens will have the opportunity to announce themselves in the next elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25298	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. I'm also asking you to tell us something about your proposals so we know whether to vote on the draft law supplementing the Labour Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25299	We've proposed a law regarding young people, which rarely anyone takes care of, I won't tell anyone. Many MPs have participated with us from the DS, about how and how we can speed up this country to be a country in which young people will indeed remain and will not flee to some foreign countries, which will benefit from their knowledge and their energy. Absolutely, the young aren't on the priority list. Not that they're at the bottom of the list of priorities, but they're not on the priority list. The more of them leave the country, obviously this government needs it more and more, since they won't have anyone to fight with, there won't be any young people who will complain. So, young people don't have a job today. They finish their high school neatly, whether professional or high school, graduate colleges, come honestly to their diplomas, get master's and doctoral degrees. But they can't get a job. Why? Because there is, first ban on public sector employment, where only those members of the SNS can be employed. Fifty-five thousand of them, from the time of the ban on employment to today, have been hired by representatives of the regime, while the young world can only count on a one-way ticket. Now, this is not a country where there will be a future and that young people will decide to start their own business here. We have proposed the Labour Act to be such as to make certain reliefs for young people to come to work, and we are surprised, why in such a way we have received an answer from the ruling majority, that they absolutely do not want to discuss the subject. We didn't say this law cost Serbia 50m euros. It is enough to transfer 80,000 informal employees to formal employees and to be zero, only enough after that is one newly employed to win. And how many people will we lose if we don't put this law on the agenda? How many doctors will the most educated, the smartest, the most capable leave this country, just because young and successful are not on the SNS priority list? This is what is the problem today for Serbia, which absolutely does not think about its future, just because it is water dilettants, only because there are people, who are exclusively thinking about themselves and their pockets, and not those who, but who, several years after successful completed studies, can't get to work. And that's why we propose this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25300	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25301	Thank you. This is also a popular youth employment law. We have parents today who have invested a lot to make their family successful, so that their children are educated, healthy, neat, well-fed, and have experienced their sons and their daughters leaving Serbia. Because Serbia has become a dark fairy, for many who have acquired their education honestly, their education. Serbia cannot count on a country that will survive in the future, if it leaves the most important and most valuable resource aside, which are young people, that is their knowledge and their energy. I'm surprised, all that noise and all those attacks, all those throwings whenever we mentioned free textbooks, whenever we mentioned better and better quality education for our young people in Serbia, to be more competitive on the labour market. We were surprised by that, for the simple reason that there is clearly fear, when it comes to higher quality education, by the SNS and individual MPs, who represent today the fist of the regime in this home. What is obviously worrying us is that the growing resistance of the ruling majority towards those who can, with their knowledge, threaten them, replace them in their places, and even in the SNS itself there are those who even know something amongst their membership, but cannot come to function, because those who do not know anything about these functions hold both hands and feet and do not want to get away from these chairs. That's the kind of thing in the country, too, unfortunately. As you work in your own party, so is the state. Of course there are those who are not members of any party, and they cannot find their place under the sun, only because those who do not know absolutely anything are running Serbia today. Those who are not competent, who are not qualified, who have bought diplomas, who in every way mock those young people who have come to some of their titles and some of their successes. We have a situation that those young people who are the most esteemed, who have the highest grades, gold medals at the science Olympics, today have not even gotten a pat on the shoulder by those who run the government of the Republic of Serbia, and are already bought by many foreign, international companies and slowly drag that most valuable resource aside. It is obviously the vision of Serbia as Alexander Vukic and SNS sees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25302	I'm putting the motion to vote, to remind you, of the amendment to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Security. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25303	Thank you. Just 10 days ago, it was exactly three years ago that anti-constitutionally reduced pensions were disgraced, as property was seized by citizens who fairly earned their pension during their lifetime. In those three years, some hundreds of millions of euros were taken, as much money as you spent and put in the pocket of Arab investors who destroyed both "Belgrade on water" and agricultural land and many other projects, on which false factories had never opened. When it comes to secret contracts that you have spent hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros on several sessions, then contracts on a work that is always ahead of the elections, as we will have this year, over 130m euros has been set up for work contracts, for members, SNS officials, i.e. So-called Buying votes. So much money has been spent that no child, no grandson, no granddaughter, no job, no arrests, and no family has continued to base in Serbia. You have ruined the old people in Serbia who have earned their pension fair and square throughout their lives. Pension is property and you can't take that pension the way you did. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not allow that. That's why you're not going to let the PIO Fund issue a pension reduction solution, because you've made it impossible for pensioners to complain about it. Shame on you! They can't pay their taxes... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25304	I ask MP Balša Bozovic to try to propose a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary arrangement of the way pensions are paid. There's certainly no room for insult. There's ten more seconds. Please release in your dictionary insults and shouting at other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25305	They don't have to pay taxes on property, they don't have to be treated, they don't have to eat quality food, they don't have to give their grandchildren and grandchildren their allowance, they don't have a way to drive cars, when they want to, because they don't have money for fuel. You brought pensioners down to that today in Serbia, and you should be ashamed of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25306	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the establishment of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water". Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25307	Thank you. So, we propose that the Lex specialise be abolished, that an interstate agreement be broken between Serbia and the Emirates and thus protect the interest of the Republic of Serbia and the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so that we can return the salaries to those to whom you have paid, so that we can return pensions to those to whom you have reduced pensions. So, instead of singing today to the ruling majority MPs and making insults and winnings, cursing me and my family and scandaling, I am proud that DS MPs will never withdraw from such rudeness and that they will always fight for the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's not the aim of the DS to come to power. The aim of the DS is to protect them from such rudeness and such disrespect for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That is why we have proposed that the Lex specialis be abolished, because we do not want the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be the ones who will pay for the failed projects of Aleksandr Vukic and those who are in power today in the Republic of Serbia. We have a situation today where instead of building homes, social housing, military housing, instead of returning pensions to the pensioners, instead of returning salaries to the educators, instead of paying the doctors back to the old level and increasing them, we spend that money on "Belgrade on the Water", which, not that it failed, which collapses and sinks every day, is the recklessness of this government towards its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25308	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Vesna Marjanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Electronic Media. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Gordana Komic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people lost their lives. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Natasa Vučković suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25309	Thank you, President. I suggested that amendments be made to the property tax Act, which was adopted in 2013. So, by one of your first governments in 2013, there was a huge increase in property tax. We also spoke in the assembly debate at that time about the fact that your bill at the time went to the point where even up to 700% of the property tax increased. After some of our amendments were adopted happily, and then the tax hike was only made between 200 and 300%. Now the Belgrade City Assembly has also voted in favour of increasing property taxes. Why do we propose this law here, especially me? First of all, there is a huge tax burden on Serbian citizens. We also listen every day to the media from the government's representatives that the great success of this government is that fiscal consolidation was carried out. Please, no fiscal consolidation has been implemented except in the pocket and on the burden of Serbian citizens. When you look at what you've done in terms of increasing the tax burden on citizens since 2012 since you've been in power, in addition to increasing VAT rates, you've increased the tax on property, you've increased corporate tax, excise tax, etc. So, this whole fiscal consolidation besides the pension and salary cuts, it's actually based on the fact that you put your hand in their pocket to the citizens deep, deep, and that's all the success of this government. This resulted in the huge poverty of citizens across Serbia, and with this property tax, which you have so badly increased in 2013, according to the law are the most burdened, primarily by citizens, property owners in large cities, and above all in Belgrade, but also in Novi Sad, Nis, and in other cities in Serbia. What's done with it? By doing so, we have increased their tax burden to the citizens, thus making it impossible for them to enjoy the rights guaranteed by the Constitution. So such a property tax is both unconstitutional and unfair, and it is disproportionate. We have repeatedly proposed more amendments to this bill. My proposal goes towards maintaining, first of all, the progressive property tax, but so that those who make up the largest number of immovable property owners in this country, which is the largest number of citizens across Serbia, are making the most of them and reducing the tax burden. This law has yet another great injustice, which is that it abolished what we managed to introduce into the law, it seems to me in 2010 or 2011, when it was last changed, which is that gardens are not paid tax on property. It was a proposal by the MP Konstantinovic, and mine then, by this law that you passed in 2013...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25310	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Natasa Vučković suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Court within a reasonable period of time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25311	President-in-Office, this bill aims to specify several provisions of the Law on the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, which was adopted in 2015. We then proposed a lot of amendments to that law. Why is this law important? Here in this country, all citizens who need to protect their rights in court know how much it will cost them both time and money. So, there has been a tremendous increase in both the court taxis, and on the other hand we fail to achieve, through all these judicial reforms, that judicial proceedings, so the procedure in which citizens exercise some of their rights, lasts shorter. In the context of availability, the right to access to justice, the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, is one of the essential elements. What exactly is being introduced by this law, which I propose? One equality of citizens, i.e. all those who are in charge or have a judicial procedure in progress, is that in the event that they are not given the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, the President of the Court is excluded if he is the one who decides in the basic procedure. This is not the law you passed in 2015, and we are proposing this. This is particularly important for all citizens of Serbia, but I would like to point to one category where the duration of the procedure is extremely unfair and where it raises their existence, the life of their families, and this is a matter of working disputes in particular. We have the opportunity to read in the media all the time how long work disputes last. So these are people who are jobless, jobless and who sometimes exercise their labour rights in procedures that last for several years. What remains of that right, even when it comes to court, we've also had a chance to read. This is a very small change, but a change that would mean a lot to the citizens of Serbia and the possibility of achieving their right to justice in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25312	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25313	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an extremely important law... I beg you, Parliament Speaker, if you can calm the ruling majority. I know they're nervous about losing an election that's going to hit them very quickly, but I'm asking you to convince them to behave the way they're not in nature, and that's normal. This is an extremely important law, such as the defence system is an extremely important system for both us and the whole country. Now, to be perfectly clear, I don't expect the SNS to accept these changes and additions to the Defense Act, because the SNS's position on the overall defence system is clear. When one party changes five defence ministers in six years, and each one is worse than the previous minister, we know what can expect us. When a defence minister's party now has Alexander Vulin and BIA Director Bratislava Gasic, we know what can expect us in the area of security. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97(1), point 4, 6 and 9. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is scheduled to govern and ensure the defence and security of all its citizens, regardless of religious, political or national membership. The Defence Act is insufficient and does not provide answers to essential questions. One reason is the obsolescence of basic strategic documents, but also the neglect of current security assessments, primarily globally, both in the region where we live and in the country where we live. It is necessary, first of all, to establish a harmony, first of all with the Emergency Law. There is no country in Europe that takes care of its security and defence system without a harmonised law on defence with the Emergency Law. We've submitted a change and a supplement of eight points. These changes and additions were done by extremely serious people and I thank them on this occasion, both General Malinović and General Radojicic. I don't really know what it is that is controversial to accept the amendment of Article 1 which reads that the basic strategic documents are the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Serbia, the Strategy for Defence of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian Army doctrine and documents in the field of non-military exports, risks and threats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25314	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments and addition of the Law on the financing of local self-government. Please respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25315	I don't really know why the system doesn't work whenever someone from the Democratic Party shows up, but you won't shut us up. I've proposed amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government. Local self-government is an obvious example of haughtiness, corruption and ignorance of the SNS in all 160 local self-government where, unfortunately, according to Serbian citizens, the SNS manages local self-governments in the form of the Mayor of the Kings who opens up as a capital investment traffic light, in the form of the Mayor of Subotica, who as a capital investment represents that he wants to remove his throat from his political insinuation, or as Mayor of Novi Sad, who in the form of a capital investment opens up a parking lot for bicycles. I have proposed amendments and amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government above all in order to bring back to all citizens of Serbia, regardless of whether they live in Subotica or Surdulica, what the SNS took from them. With this law, I propose that the citizens of Serbia return five billion dinars, how many SNS have taken from them only last year. I, President, once again ask you to calm down the MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party. I know they're not meant to be careful, cultural and normal, but this is still a parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25316	Ambassador, don't make me punish you. Well, you can't tell the MPs they're insane, it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25317	Please listen to our insults all the time, and to my colleague Bozovic and me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25318	Ambassador, please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25319	We propose, in particular, the return of five billion dinars to Serbian citizens, how many SNS have kidnapped all Serbian citizens and all local self-governments, and the president of municipalities does not want to make and create people who think with their heads, who work in the interests of their citizens, but who work in the interest of the mafia company and their party... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25320	Is that it? (Radoslav Milojic: Why can't I explain the proposal? You interrupted me for two minutes. That doesn't mean you can insult... (Radoslav Milojic: You cannot interrupt me. Well, I'll interrupt you a few more times, it's no problem. Your explanation of the bill on amendments and the addition of the Law on the financing of local self-government is so that you called the SNS MPs... (Radoslav Milojic: Give me back my time.) It is a shame that you are now saying that time is more important to you than the respect of the MPs in this House. You said they were insane, that mobsters... (Radoslav Milojic: I didn't say that.) I have another minute, please give me my time. No, I won't give you back safe time for insults and stuff like this. (Radoslav Milojic: I have a minute left. You don't. I'm putting your proposal to the vote. You are obliged to respect the Rules of Procedure at any time when we work. So the suggestion of the agenda refers to the matter you're proposing, not to the pronunciation of every kind of insult that comes to your mind at that time. This has nothing to do with the essence of proposing and explaining the agenda. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Information and Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25321	I am glad that the citizens of Serbia have had the opportunity to see that you want to put out everyone's opinion, any MP who thinks differently from you and who disagrees with your destructive policy. You took my minute, because I have three minutes to explain the law, and you stole my whole minute. When you do it here in front of a wide audience, in front of cameras, what do you do in polling stations when no one sees it?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25322	You've been given your word to explain the Public Media Information Act, not to live up to me. (Radoslav Milojic: This is the introduction to the law. That's not an introduction. (Radoslav Milojic: Please allow me to explain the law, I have three minutes left. When you explain the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25323	I'm really sorry that you or the SNS can't tell me how I'm going to explain my law and I'll never agree to it, you can do it with another party, you can't do it with the Democratic Party. Please give me back the time to explain the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Information Act. And, as you know, the power is variable and this time I ask all the parliamentary groups who think it is necessary for Serbia, and we need to change the disastrous Information Act through joint efforts. It may suit you today, because according to the statistics, Aleksandar Vucic has taken up 96.8% of the space in the electronic media campaign, but it certainly won't do you any good for a year when you lose the election. Nikola Pasic said when he was passed the law, when he asked what kind of law it was, his associates told him, it's such a law that we'll never be able to lose the election. He then said return that law, when we are opposition, that law will not suit us. Why don't you pass this law? Well, because you're afraid. You are afraid of fair media treatment, you are afraid that your president must not go to TV-duel, Dragan Sutanovac, president of the Democratic Party and none of the Democratic Party's MPs. You are afraid because you tolerated 23 attacks on the media during 2013 because you tolerated 54 attacks on the media in 2017. These are devastating data and these are not laughing data. With this information, you shouldn't even laugh at the SNS who beat up your president's inauguration to a journalist...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25324	Ambassador, you're really saying a lot right now. What does that have to do with the bill? (Radoslav Milojic: Give me back my time.) I won't give you your time, you understand that. We make all kinds of things out of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (Radoslav Milojic: Please give me back my time.) Who are you not to give me my time? And you'll be estimating. ) You are unable to suggest that you explain to us the proposal for a law supplementing the Law of Public Information and the media. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for the vote – 12, against – one, abstention – no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Social Protection Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25325	Dear citizens, I'm glad you could see once again that the government is suffocating a different opinion even in the People's Parliament and in the National Assembly that was founded because of this and what SNS is doing from the highest House in our country. The Democratic Party proposes 47 amendments to the law and another 27 amendments and amendments to the laws and committees in the procedure, but I think this law is one of the most important, if not the most important. The constitutional basis for the adoption of the Social Protection Act is contained in the provision of Article 97 of point 8 and the Democratic Party proposes a concrete measure to ensure that all students whose parents do not work are free of charge from home to school. That all students whose parents do not work are provided free lunches and free textbooks are provided to all students whose parents do not work. It's not equal to what SNS is doing. It is not normal for us to have 50,000 children in Serbia who are covered by basic and secondary education who are hungry every day, who watch the best friend from the lunch bench, and those children are unable because parents cannot provide them with free snack, while Minister Vulin buys a 200 000-euro apartment with suspicious shops. This is not the kind of Serbia that the Democratic Party has been fighting for since Professor Micunovic 27 years ago and is still fighting today. Unfortunately, we have an example of a boy from Mol, who, first of all, had no money for a ticket from home to school, left the third grade of high school in Vienna, and unfortunately later committed suicide for lack of property. That's not the kind of Serbia we should have in 2017. In 2015, the share of children in Serbia's total population was only 17.3%, making us an extremely old nation. We also have for this concrete solution, the Democratic Party proposes free out-of-body fertilisation for all married couples who cannot be made as parents. Serbia is the leader in the region but unfortunately Serbia is the leader in the region only at the risk of poverty. That's where we come in first. Serbia comes first at the risk of poverty. You can build bridges, you can build roads, and you can't do that, but you can't let our children be hungry in 2017 while your bills are getting fuller, while you have more and more apartments at the expense of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25326	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Radoslav Milojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Police Act. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25327	President, I answer every time and you never give me a word. I know that you want to silence me just as you want to silence most Serbian citizens...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25328	Ambassador, why are you making this up now? He hates you to press the key, answer the word, and then make up an auditorium that looks at us. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25329	Give me back the 26 seconds you took from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25330	And I always need to give you something back.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25331	Well, give it back to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25332	Well, there's nothing to pay you back.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25333	You take a lot, I can't really. You took 33 seconds from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25334	Please, don't argue, just explain the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25335	The Democratic Party is proposing amendments to the Law on Police because the life of all citizens is equally important to us in the first place. Every day in Serbia, we have a police protest, we have a protest in the military, we have a protest in the post office, and today we have even had a protest in a small municipality in Koserić where thousands of citizens gathered to protest against the poor corrupt and arrogant SNS authorities. The proposed amendments and additions to the Police Act are necessary precisely because the SNS has dissuaded all police officers and all members of the Ministry of the Interior and brought them to the brink of existence. The state of the police is so bad that the SNS is the first to risk their lives to provide us and our country with a reduction in salaries, to steal 10% of their salaries. And then the SNS took the journals. So the diaries now for the one who guards our border and protects the safety of all of us is 150 dinars. For those 150 dinars, a man can't buy himself a muffin and a yogurt. A policeman can't do his job zealously and responsibly if he knows there's no money at home for electricity, that he can't pay his children books for the current year. Two key points are in the amendments to the Police Act. The first is that the ministry must determine the needs of the system according to the fact that it is training staff at the police academy. It is not normal for young educated, professional people who finish the police academy to be unable to work at the ministry, and in the ministry you hired some sort of Dijana Hrkalovic who was a bot of the SNS, which is why we do so in the security sector. The second point is, we propose to delete Article 172. The law on police because that member is being torn down by a presuppression of innocence, and that is why we propose to delete it. For example, an honorable and honest policeman can catch in the theft of Vulin, catch in the theft of Gasic, Vukic or Brnabić, if someone submits criminal charges to him, he is automatically away from work, and we know how our courts do. I don't understand why you're nervous now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25336	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25337	Please, the 106th speaker can only talk about the agenda point. Members of the SNS give the quorum, I am saying this because of the citizens of Serbia, so that these regrettable remains of the former regime can propose their calls to the agenda, which are everything, not just supplementing the agenda, but the worst possible insults to the account, above all, Alexander Vukic, SNS and ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Please, Mrs Gojkovic, the one who spreads his arms, the one who robbed the Smederjevska Palanka, the ones who robbed everything alive in Serbia, that you do not allow them to continue to live above the MPs and on the citizens. The Serbian Progressive Party didn't steal anything from anyone, the SNS didn't kill anyone in their time were killed by police generals on the street, in their time their presidential candidate had a gun from which a man was killed in his apartment, not in Alexander Vukic's apartment, and I ask you, Mrs Gojkovic, to lead this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to interrupt every member of the former regime, this sorry Serbian opposition, when it speaks of something mildly unrelated to the agenda point. Otherwise, they're so strong and strong, that without the quorum of these people sitting here all day listening to all sorts of Kens and others ruining Serbia, what they're doing wouldn't be possible. So they can only talk about the agenda point.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25338	Thank you. To inform the MPs to find me a place in this part of the session... (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )......................................................................................................... can't hurt the Rules of Procedure. No, no, it's just that since you yelled at me a moment ago and asked us to come up with a joint effort to find out how it was going on... Don't yell. It's tasteless. It's real. All day long, the proposers have been really insulting the agenda and are not talking at all about the bill proposals they have proposed. And now that it's back from hurting the Rules of Procedure, now God knows what kind of noise it is. (Radoslav Milojic: I have no right to harm... Find me, you're... Don't yell at me, so what does this look like? Really, I can take anything. Last week I was physically harassed, now you're yelling at me, so what it looks like to the president and the chairman. Well, this in Parliament's history wasn't. So we're either going to propose a agenda, do it the way it's started, or we're going to do it again. You can't insult me, don't show me what to do, or we'll go back to explaining the addition of the agenda and talk about the matter that was proposed, or we'll move on to general insults. Don't think someone who gives the quorum has to do it and listen to insults all day that someone is a thief, that he's like this, that he's like that, that he's a criminal, etc. There's only one limit that he can stand, and then he can't. Make up your mind, there's injuries to the Rules of Procedure, there's no harm to the Rules of Procedure, that's for everyone. National MP Radoslav Milojic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Serbian Army. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25339	We're talking about amendments to the Army Act. I agree with the previous speaker, whom you had no right to give a replica. That something in this country is sad, sad is all that, and above all, the Army, which is touched by the SNS. We have proposed amendments and additions to 18 members of the Military Act and new amendments and additions were made by prominent experts in the field and security and military experts, military generals. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It is necessary, first of all, to bring the Law on the Army and the Defence Act into line. This is inconceivable and outrageous, that we do not have a 100% according to the Defence Act, the Military Act in 2017 in the state of Serbia. What's so controversial about these changes and the supplements we're proposing? The Serbian Progressive Party, people, and you managed to destroy the Army. It never went down on anyone, it's just impossible. You've changed five defence ministers in six years, and every minister is worse than his predecessor. Eighty per cent of Serbian Army members, this is a devastating data, earns less than the average earnings in Serbia. Seventy-two percent of Serbia's military members, who left the military in 2016, did so on a personal request. The military was once the most trusted institution of citizens, and now you, Vulin and Vukic, have brought the army to be the institution from which soldiers flee, 72% of the military have fled from the military, it has done so on a personal request. Seventy per cent of Serbian military civilians earn about 22,000 dinars. Explain to me if anyone can live in Serbia with 22,000 dinars. You're on strike, you're on strike, you're on strike, you're on strike, you're on strike, you're on strike, you're on strike, you're on strike, you're on strike, you're on strike, you're on strike, you're on strike, you're on You ruined Serbia. If it's for you, well enough, let the citizens of Serbia lift their heads, so they can live off their work, even those you hire have a salary of 18,000 dinars...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25340	Let's now discuss amendments to the Law on the Serbian Army, without a rally, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25341	For 18,000 dinars, you're on the verge of existence, so you live out of 18,000 dinars. The only ones who are better in Serbia are members and SNS officials.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25342	Direct address to MPs is prohibited, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25343	I don't know why you're talking to me like that, but it's about you, not us explaining these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25344	I don't know how to speak to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25345	But the citizens of Serbia, soldiers and cops and workers see what you want to do, but you won't shut us up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25346	That's right. The Tribin will be safe in election campaigns, and here I'm asking you something about bill proposals, if you can, if you can't, my God. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bozidar Delic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Middle Education and Education. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25347	Dear Presidents, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, in the assembly procedure, I made two proposals to amend the Law on secondary education and basic education with the aim of warning the increasing presence of peer violence in our primary and secondary schools. You are witnessing that a few days ago in elementary school, in Arangelovac, the girl was practically a victim of peer violence and all of us as citizens of Serbia were amazed by the fact that her classmates treated her that way. What we have to do as a state is preventably approach this problem that is increasingly present in Serbia. I'll tell you some data based on UNICEF, some form of school violence has suffered two-thirds of the children in Serbia. The most endangered are children from poor families and distracted by development, as well as Roma children, children who have escaped faces. They're targeted and extremely gifted students. Every fourth grade says there are students at his school that he's afraid of, because they might be harassing him. All polls suggest that only six per cent of founding students and 23 per cent of Serbian high school students have never experienced violence. These are data that are alarming to UNICEF, which speak of a major problem that is happening in our schools. Unfortunately, school administrations, school principals, class elders, teachers have kind of retired and do not want to get into problem solving. When they sense that there is a problem in their class, they must take preventive measures against the violent and protect the victim. In some situations, children are very ruthless, as we have seen in that video that was on the Internet, from Arangelovac, it is a request that we prevent the introduction of education measures and work with young people to make the first hour of the month, it is also a proposal of the law, that the first hour of every month be with a class elder about tolerance among peers, that every problem that is detected in the class must be explained in that class class class class class class class and see why there is a problem. There's someone who doesn't see, there's kids who can hear weaker, there's kids who have diabetes, there's kids who are less walking, who have some deformity of feet or limbs, but the point is that the other person can't be the target and there's been changes to this law and additions to this law member that I suggested through this bill, that we act preventively, that we don't have these terrible scenes that we saw in Arangelec. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25348	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Fundamental Education and Education. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25349	Dear President, this is a continuation of what I previously said about the violence that is happening in our schools and that occurs in different forms. Verbal violence is certainly the most present in the form of ridicule, calling ugly names, mocking, insulting, throwing away. It is not necessary to point out that children in primary schools, in early classes, are sensitive when separated from their family, when they move into a new environment, such as primary schools, how they react when certain children are harassed like this. What is also present is physical violence that involves hitting, pushing, kidnapping and destroying things. It was characteristic of boys in the years behind, however, there is an increasing presence of violence among girls. The point is, as I have stated in my previous report, is to deal with these children. I, as a doctor, always give an accent for prevention. It is much easier to act on a problem, a disease, than to enter the healing process. By introducing youth education to work with children in primary and secondary schools, that the campaign is not a target. A friend must never be a target. When we were in elementary schools, I was some senior generation at 50, we shared lunch, we had children and Roma nationality in my class, we shared lunch with them, we played with all the kids. What happened? There's a problem in schools where class elders, where school principals just don't want to get into trouble. I come from Nis where a boy committed suicide after a school administration failure. Unresponsive school administration, non-responsive class elder of that boy who suffered violence. It's a fragrant fact, it's present in many schools, and here's this school in Arangelovac. The violence against that girl occurred weeks or 10 days before the video was released on social networks. What did that director do when that violence occurred? Nothing. He kept his mouth shut, thinking that violence would stop. Violence will never stop itself. We have to act as a state, work with children, explain to them that a friend can never be the target of violence against a boy or a girl, that we have to share common values, explain to children that the other one who hears weaker sees we need to help him solve his homework, help him learn his lesson, and if he doesn't have the money, share his lunch with him. It's something that adorned some generations when I was in elementary and high school. I hope and believe that the state has a way to react and prevent any kind of violence, because it's frantic when you see in the media, on social networks, that violence happens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25350	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25351	Dear Presidents, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I table a motion to amend the Criminal Code at the Third Assembly of Serbia. In three conferences of parliament, I pray for persons who have HIV. We are on December 1st, when the World Day of HIV is all ready to say that we are eager to co-ordinate with HIV sufferers. The National Association of AIDS, of HIV, asked me to say in parliament that they were discriminated against by a member of the Criminal Code. That's Article 250. Criminal code. This member, when the Criminal Code was written 20 or 30 years ago, when that member was brought in, was then a new infectious disease, which people feared because he did not know the way the disease occurred, the way the disease spreads. Now, as a doctor, I can say that HIV with the development of pharmaceutical therapy, medical treatment, is kept under control and is not at all as dangerous or as life-threatening as it was before. We're asking by the proposal of this law to be a member of 250. The criminal code shall be deleted because they suffer from AIDS from a group of infectious diseases treated in Article 249 were extracted and placed especially on a pillar of shame in Article 250. Why does one feel that these people, who are already gravely ill, who are struggling for life, are obliged to fight and fight against the administration that legally discriminates against them. Article 250 brings them out of a group of infectious diseases, and all other infectious diseases are treated by Article 249. Criminal code. The appeal is for the Ministry of Justice, if this isn't adopted today, I urge the minister to consider this appeal. This is not the appeal of Dusan Milisavljevic, this is the appeal of the National Association of HIV to this Article 250. The criminal code also erases that their disease is placed in a group of infectious diseases in Article 249 where other diseases, such as hepatitis-b, such as hepatitis-c, are thus shown solidarity with HIV patients, not to tolerate them even by barriers in people's heads, to be further discriminated against by the Criminal Code in Article 250. I urge you to vote in favour of this proposal, and I am sending an appeal to the Secretary-General to look at this Article 250, that this is no outwitting of the political, but an appeal by the side not to be discriminated against by the special separation of Article 249 and to be branded as a special disease in Article 250. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25352	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Health Insurance Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25353	Dear Presidents, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, the proposal of this law is to require mandatory legal regulation of hearing measurements in babies. Now that you're hearing what this doctor is looking for in parliament, I'm asking by law to commit all of our gynological institutions, the clinic, to the obligation to measure the hearing of the third to the fifth day since the birth of the baby. Many doctors will tell you – we are poor as a country, as an economy, that our hospitals are empty, that we do not have this or that. This time I tell you that with the successful action of Ringier Axel Springer, with the support of human Serbia, with the patronage and support of the Ministry of Health, we have all managed to equip all Serbian maternity homes with hearing aids in babies. I am sending an appeal to both Serbian citizens and young parents who are getting a child to seek, when they are taking the child out of gynecological clinics, from the maternity ward, that it is mandatory for the maternity ward to measure their hearing, and I am asking you as MPs to impose a legal obligation that since all maternity homes are now equipped with these appliances, it is a legal obligation, because I have received information that this screening hearing is not working in some maternity wards. Now I'm fighting as a doctor and as a politician who has a chance to say that someone doesn't do screening even though they have machines. Who is it that human Serbia has given the opportunity to work with the most sophisticated childbearing machine doesn't do a hearing check at the baby? I'm telling the citizens that all maternity homes have appliances, that you report a maternity ward where you haven't been doing a hearing check at the baby, and as colleagues, I'm asking you to impose this as an obligation, so that I don't get messages from some smaller environments, from towns, where mothers and fathers report that they didn't do hearing checks at the maternity ward. It's a big problem when a kid comes out of the maternity ward, and there's no telling if he can't hear. Not by developing hearing a child can't develop a speech. When you have a child two or three years old when a parent already notices that there is no communication with him, it is much more difficult to rehabilitate and return to speech and hearing than when you in the maternity ward detect the third to the fifth day that the child does not hear and start on time with medical treatment. It's an appeal for the third to fifth day maximum since the birth of a child, a baby, hearing to be checked in maternity wards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25354	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the session agenda be supplemented by the dots – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25355	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, you are witnesses that I have been in the National Assembly mostly, since I am a National MP, representing the interests of the sick, socially endangered and not entering some other segments of the legislation. The bill I have made and proposed to Parliament is that the criminal act of illegally acquired property cannot become obsolete. It's a bill of law that has caused some of my friends to wonder, like, how do you propose it now? I'll tell you that after talking to Professor O'Donnell. Cedomir Čupić and the growing stories in the public that some crimes go out of date and how individuals who deal with politics or some business escape justice, that this is one way that we can solve this problem where citizens are let down and that's it. where the citizens suffered the most damage because someone... Practically, citizens are discouraged when they see that someone can avoid legal, practical responsibility. I personally believe that the most significant anti-corruption potential of every society is the very solution of their citizens to live in a free and orderly society. The point is that this bill would send a message to politicians who are in power and who are in opposition, because everything in life is changing, you're up there today, you're down there tomorrow, but by adopting this law, it wouldn't be safe for individuals who would wrong themselves about the law and who would abuse a function in the executive government, which they got as trust from Serbian citizens, and Serbian citizens would be sure that this crime couldn't go out of date. Some lawyers told me, so that's impossible. Why is it impossible? I think it's possible that the crime of illegally acquired property must not go out of date. Well, whether we're going to question him now or 10 or 20 years from now, that crime, in my opinion, is some topic that could be uniquely supported in parliament and that we're going to make it impossible for people who are in power at the moment to feel very strong because this one bill of law will think that maybe one day, in 10 or 20 years, some other people in the executive power or in the legislative authority will come and question the origin of his property. I think this is a bill that the citizens would support, and it's up to us as MPs to see if we support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25356	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25357	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, Proposal to amend the labour law. This proposal, as I did last week, when I proposed the laws, explained, came as a reaction to an incident, a case that happened in Nis where the worker "Jure", she gave me the right to say her name, although everyone in Serbia knows, Violet Petrovic, the woman who, when she lost her job, was sick and operated on breast cancer, received cytostatic therapy, simply decided to break her working relationship. I was fragrant as a doctor, and as a MP, I visited Violet that same day, and a few days later, through a legal proposal, I performed here in parliament. So I ask the question – what kind of society do we become, who are these people in any factory that, for the sake of their own personal interest, puts personal capital ahead and releases the woman who was in the breast cancer treatment process? Serbian citizens are among the leading nations in Europe by the number of malignancies. Unfortunately, the number of tumour deaths is among the leading countries in the EU. Now who are these people who, for their own good, fire a woman who is in the breast cancer treatment process? Fortunately, my fellow citizen won breast cancer, but she stayed on the street. The bill prevents employers from firing workers in the process of treatment and rehabilitation and from having the right to prevent the state from protecting cancer patients from saying – no, you can't fire him because no one in Serbia can be fired as long as his treatment continues, as long as his rehabilitation continues. This isn't the only case. It wasn't just Violet lost her job while she was being treated for cancer. Some other women came to me from Nis, but I also heard from workers from other parts of Serbia. Unfortunately, a permanent working relationship is happening less and less in Serbia. More and more workers are employed on a certain level. Who are these capital owners, who are the bosses of our lives who can fight so hard for life that they fire him and let him out on the street. I can tell you I disagree. As a doctor, I will fight for this to be the legal protection of our workers and that none of the employers, not that they have any right, but that it does not occur to him that anyone who is ill with cancer, thinks, fires, let alone really fires him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25358	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25359	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, and last time for this bill we voted on earlier, and the proposal I am now explaining was voted by fellow MPs who are not from the opposition, but from ruling parties. The bill does not elect a party jersey, nor a party bench in the Serbian Parliament. The disease can knock on anyone's door and just in the fight against some things that aren't good for our citizens, we don't have to be divided who they are, who we are. We are MPs who represent the citizens here. Someone dared to fire one of our citizens fighting cancer. I am pleased and thank the MPs who have now voted in favour of this proposal, not from the opposition, but from the ruling parties. I can confirm to you that there were good MPs in the last vote and MPs in the Serbian Parliament should come even more freely when it comes to this sort of thing. These are things that are so clean, that we prevent an employer who's held back for personal interest, for the sake of personal capital from firing someone. It's something that's fraternizing to me and I'm fighting there without hair on my tongue. This must no longer be the case in Serbia. No Violeta Petrovic, no owner from Asia, China or America or Europe who comes here gets capital, and we support it. But if you gain capital, you must give decent conditions to our workers when they are being treated, sir, you will not have the right to fire them, nor the right to harass them. With this bill, I suggest that workers get cancer, that they be able to receive 100% monthly compensation, that their illness be 100%, not 65%, such as other illnesses and sickness benefits. As a head and neck surgeon, I'm saying that cancer treatment isn't just surgery and it's not just a hospital leave. Cancer treatment continues and when hospital treatment is completed, these patients need many medicines, but also quality food that is expensive in Serbia. It takes a lot of vitamins, a lot of essential amino acids, a lot of fruit and vegetables that these citizens have to bring in. Some will say it's discrimination, why are they 100% and many other patients suffering from many other diseases 65%? Let's allow positive discrimination. Malignant diseases are the most severe, these diseases easily lose their lives. This bill would provide support. The bill also fits the National Strategy of the Ministry of Health for the fight against cancer, which was adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25360	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Dragoljub Micunovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law amending the Law on textbooks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25361	What I'm about to say kind of repeats what I've already said, but with two aspects. One is political, one is social. It is political that if we want to join the EU and be respected, we must be a country of rule of law, which means we must respect the Constitution. The Constitution of Article 71 states that basic education is mandatory and free of charge. I asked how this happened, and I saw that, in fact, in the Declaration that was brought in 1948, when the UN was founded, and whose founder was here in Yugoslavia, this member stands in that Declaration, which is that basic education is free and mandatory. Then in the 1950s, human rights pacts and so on came. The second battle that speaks of education and culture. It was all ratified by Yugoslavia. One who didn't have all tens in law school might also know that this is an international right that we ratify here is an automatic component of our legislation. That's how this provision was found that education is free and mandatory. If we don't respect that, then I'm afraid we've also sinned on international law, about the UN, and of course I'm not talking about my own constitution. I will insist until the end, as long as it takes, that it is respected, because it is one universal right. Now the social part, trying to mix social issues with political issues, and then to say – we will give free textbooks, but only for those who are very poor. Who's going to determine that? There's no map and no right. What this Declaration wants is for every child who turns 6-7 and comes to school, it's his entry into public life, to be given textbooks as a citizen, not as a poor person. It is a key question why all in normal countries have their textbooks waiting for them when they arrive. It's a question of civil equality.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25362	Time. Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Jesic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25363	One of the first measures of the government of the Republic of Serbia was to consolidate finance. Here, we are at the threshold of the sixth budget most in front of the SNS are to present in this parliament and boast that we have made a tiger of Serbia in the past five years, that we have saved Serbia from bankruptcy, that we have never done better, that there has never been more money in the budget, and on the other hand... (Marco Atlagic: That's right. ) Although colleagues earn and shout so, on the other hand, I will remind them that yesterday they have raised commitments for co-workers for independent trades between 20% and 30%, that VAT companies in Serbia do not return between six and eight months and that, among other things, the topic of this law, the first of the measures being done is that they have been dramatically reduced direct payments to agricultural producers in this country. The history of direct agricultural donations, the legacy we have is European heritage. You cannot have competitive agricultural production in Europe in situations where couples in countries, not only the first EU countries, but countries that have entered the EU, such as Croatia, Hungary, Bulgaria and Romania have ten times the revenue per hectare of our pairs, and you expect to have competitive agriculture. You can't do that. Or you can say -- ladies and gentlemen, agriculture is not our goal, and we're not going to do agriculture in this country, we're going to make Mubadal chips, we're going to make boings, we're going to make who knows what things, Belgrade on water, but we're not going to do agriculture. However, as I recall, when we were here choosing the government chaired by Alexander Vukic, of those six hours of speech, the man talked about agriculture for three hours. Three hours, and five ministers have passed over the past five years, and the result is that they have been dramatically reduced payments to agriculture over the past five years since the SNS has been responsible and led by this country. We heard from Minister Nedimovic that they are almost not IPARD funds and that IPARD funds will replace the funds we need. Let me remind you, the difference is the dramatic difference between what the D.S. Government gave to the paors and what we have today. We have absolutely nothing from IPARD funds. Please tell me what IPARD fund is open about agriculture? Not one. We talk about it all the time, you swear on agriculture, you call on couples, you cheat on them every time. The budget will arrive in a few days, and there will also be holes in that budget. Zero for direct payments to agriculture. If so, ladies and gentlemen, we are doing well, as you and the current president have been repeating for five years as a mantra, then give that money to shift among other things into what is significant.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25364	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Jesic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25365	Just as you repeat that you saved Serbia from bankruptcy, in 2015 and in the laws before that, that is, the first day when Mladjan Dinkic was in government, the obsession became a state agricultural land. For unknown reasons, we have listened here to lies from former ministers, from those who falsely pretend to deal with agriculture, as the amendments to the law saved some land that was hidden and was not in the function of a pair on auctions by municipalities with fundamental law of 2007. Among other things, the first two years in which the SNS has a responsibility, we couldn't escape, we opened the refrigerator, we saw some Arabs entering the "Mubadal", in "Belgrade on Water", in Bačka, Sivac, in "Jadran" Gajdobra, in some other agricultural combinations. For two years, they laughed at us from television, we watched them in a shed on Marakana, we looked at them everywhere, nothing happened, except that we gave the Arabs land, took the paors in Backo Palanca, Mladenova, Gaydobra, and gave it to an unknown company that we didn't know their name or name. This law that has been proposed makes such things impossible anymore. Mantra after two years with Arab businessmen turned into German businessmen. Well, then we saw the then Prime Minister who was all happy and irritated in the Chalke Arena, sits and watches the Bundes League game and announces the biggest farmers in the world, today comes out text and says – two years ago we assigned 2,400 hectares of "Tenis" and from that job to today nothing. Tell me just one job, from "Mubadale", from "Belgrade on Water", from 300-euro apartments, from the Arabs that will irrigate us, make four harvests or five harvests as we have listened here and listened to from the present President of the Republic, what we have received except for taking the land and taking the chance of the paors to bid the country and to give it to tycoons, relatives, brother, sister to everyone else. Tell me, what is the profit of this law? Please support this law, to question what these effects are. I understand your good will a few years ago, but now we have to look at those effects. The effects are zero, except for pure corruption. You have members of parliament who usurp state agricultural land, no one can do anything to them. You have certain tycoons close to the foreigners who usurp state agricultural land, no one can do anything to them. That's the result of your law and that's the result of agricultural policy. Of course, these laws require the adoption of a law that will be in the procedure of stock reserves. We also need to talk about the robbery of stock reserves, and you have a lot of experience in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25366	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Serbia's Army. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Maja Vidinović suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law amending the Law on the Budgetary System. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25367	Thank you, President. In a month's time, since we've adopted the budget and the following laws, we've adopted here, re-enlarged, so on. a temporary ban on employment, which extends from year to year, which is neither temporary nor a ban on employment. You know, and then I told the finance minister that fiscal consolidation and that the collection and withdrawal of money from the citizens of Serbia, of our oldest pensioners and pensioners who take away legally acquired assets, and you boast that the budget is a smaller deficit, the fact that you prohibit employment and thus prevent many systems in this country, that is health, justice, culture, science, all those areas that are naturally directed to the state. For one thing, these systems suffer, resulting in certain rights of citizens, and if you want to suffer the rights of all those citizens and citizens who can't be employed because of the ban on employment, and when you have the wrong measure which is so wrong that every day you get areas and people who raise and raise their voice against this measure, when you have the wrong measure, if something worse can be as an addition to the wrong measure, which is that it doesn't apply to everything. Every day, all these years, Serbian citizens are witnessing that she is considered a congratulated doctor, a young artist, a scientist, an employee of science and culture, but is not valid for hundreds and tens of thousands of activists, members of supporters primarily of the SNS. So there is no area in this society that does not suffer because of the ban on employment. I was talking about the state of justice, the fact that we can't hire dactylographs because it's a ban on employment. As a result, not only does the prosecution work slower, but the processes cannot last as long as is necessary to ensure that citizens' justice is achieved. I was talking about the fact that in math high school, which my colleague Balša Bozovic mentioned today, about our most talented students, we have the fact that they can't be the best professors to be teachers of the most talented students and students, but the technological surpluses from other schools that are named as teachers who fail to meet the almighty criteria, they should presently teach our most talented students. So there is no area that does not suffer because of the fact that we have a ban on employment. Some kind of discretionary decision, some commission in Belgrade that should objectively decide whether to break it, whether to act on an exception and that, in relation to, I don't know, the Vlasotince municipality, hires someone to ban employment, it is very clear to everyone, and every day we are contacted by citizens that these are purely political pressures and that this applies to anyone who has no connection. This measure is devastating and I invite you and this time to put it on the agenda and talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25368	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—13, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 135 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 September 2017. Does MP Maja Vidinovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25369	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, several amendments to members with fellow Members Vesna Marjanovic, which talk about REM, about the regulatory body for electronic media, which has become some sort of word that citizens have established that does not actually exist. My colleague and I have specified in several members that everything that is legally required by the regulatory body for electronic media is more precisely defined, that there is no room for abuse and for the fact that today the regulatory body, which should be the guardian of the public space, is that the guardian of what the law has committed to do, that this is not happening. We have prescribed several members, an obligation in a very clear way, which makes it impossible for citizens to play and mock, which is the fact that REM does not put monitoring in the election campaign for the second year in a row of citizens. When I say this, it's not only important because of politicians and some candidates and because of the fact that it's often being transferred, that politicians complain that they are not represented to this extent in the way that is needed, we tell citizens, you know, the constitutional right of citizens to be timely, timely and objectively informed. When you favor one political party or one man, when 90% of media space has only one man, one party, the resulting rights of citizens are violated. You know, when we don't have a regulatory body for electronic media that should continuously monitor whether someone who has received a national frequency who, all together, reminds you, is publicly well, whether someone who has received a national frequency respects the conditions under which that frequency is obtained or at one point becomes a weapon in the hands of a man, becomes a weapon in the hands of a party, does not tolerate the inaccessible speech of hatred, of labels, of all the things REM under the law would have to react. Instead of reacting to REM, you know when REM shuts up then one man, president of Serbia, at the moment Alexander Vukic, then one party, SNS at the moment, takes over REM's business, so we have statements by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, who is dissatisfied because in one journal on RTS, he was not his statement at the time when he estimated that it should be, or on other television when instead of REM, President Vukic is measuring seconds and declaring dissatisfaction because it is not the best way to do so. So, when a party takes over instead of an institution, when the party cooperates in the fact that the government is not being violated when we bring down institutions that don't do their jobs today, it's something that all of us should be worried about together, and that's why I'm calling you this time to put this bill to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25370	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 135 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the draft law amending the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does the MP want a word? Yeah. ) Please sign in only. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25371	The esteemed chairman, respected presidents, respected colleagues and colleagues, stemming from the problems we all see in Serbia, so, as in the world, the growing differences between the richest and poorest and growing poverty in Serbia have led us as DS, and I, too, to present proposals for a law that would ease these differences, would certainly not solve all the problems, because it is not possible, but to mitigate these problems. For this reason, we also gave this draft law amending the Law on corporate tax. So the idea is that those employers who pay their workers better are stimulated by their profit tax being lower. We currently have a 15%-line profit tax in Serbia. Our goal is to keep that tax level for all those employers who pay their profits between 80% and 120% of the average earnings in the statistical region where the system operates. I think in one part it can stimulate employers to reduce their appetites, but to be more generous to their workers and thus increase their motivation and certainly their productivity. This bill also implies a debilitative level of profit tax, which would increase to 30% for all those who pay below 80% of the earnings for the people who work in his company, and to stimulate all those who pay more than 150% of their workers, by being aware that they are making the most of their profits, and that they will then get a lower stimulating tax rate of 10%. So we started from this way to establish greater trust and greater responsibility of employers to our employees, but we are also reducing, I'm sure, that self. Because statistics in Serbia say and it's quite clear -- when we go from the data we talk about here, and we need to talk more often, that the average salary in Serbia is 47,000, that the consumer basket is about 69,000 to 70, that the minimum consumer basket is 36,000, and that a large number of citizens live below the poverty line. Once again, the poverty line limit for the four-member family in Serbia is 31,500. That's four and a half thousand less than the minimum consumer basket. This proposal is an attempt to try to find a solution together and debate here in the Assembly about these solutions that...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25372	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25373	So this is also one of the laws that aims to fight poverty right now, because at this point below the poverty line is about 8% of Serbian citizens. So 8% is somewhere around 500,000 Serbian citizens and I think they deserve a conversation in this parliament and an attempt to seek solutions to their current status. The bottom line of the proposal is that income from capital or dividends is also part of public income tax obligations. I will explain in more detail what the objective of this law is, which is to include dividend incomes in incomes subject to annual income tax and to create conditions for increasing inflows and public revenues on the basis of income tax. The intention is to reduce the social difference, but also to reduce the tension in society, because it is clear that this is a process that is certainly speeding up, that the rich become richer, and that the poorer they become more and more poorer. What would that mean? This is how dividend income would be taxed on three levels. First, as a 15% legal figure at this point, and I suggested in this previous bill that we have three levels of profits to stimulate real employers and those that stimulate the profits of their employees, and that as dividends, they still have 15 percent, which would ultimately mean that the cumulative effect of such taxation would be from 35% to 39% compared to the 28% so far. I think it's primarily a ratio to capital contribution and a contribution to labour. On the one hand, we will have no progress and respect for work and some skills of workers who invest their work if that contribution on capital is ever higher, and it is obvious that the more stimulating owners of capital through the level of tax on the profits of their corporations or the economy they run. So the idea is precisely to reduce those differences and I invite you to at least talk about it. If in this form you do not accept this solution, I think it is necessary to discuss this set of laws that we have proposed, and I don't think that should run away, because poverty in Serbia will not go away if we stick our heads in the sand.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25374	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25375	And this is an attempt to contribute primarily to a fairer social distribution, but also to a fairer regional distribution. I think this is a topic that needs to be met and future, hopefully, the adoption of a law on the origin of property. Here we have proposed that Article 58 of this Law add the position of 2nd to - the sublegal act forms a special organisational part of the Tax Administration, with specially trained personnel, who, in collaboration with other state authorities, the MUP, the Catastre, the National Bank of Serbia, the Customs Administration, the Central Securities Register, the APR, the Treasury Department, the Department for the Prevention of Money Laundering, would process submitted applications as a check-up of applicants who have not submitted their application. Therefore, the basic idea is to make more efficient comparisons of natural persons' assets with their reported incomes. I also last time, proposing this amendment to the law, talked about our experience in parliament. So it is not logical that we, as MPs, or many MPs sitting from 1990 until, say, 2010 in these benches, know what the salaries of MPs are, we know what the salaries were in the 1990s, what they were in 1993, in the amount of five marks of the ones in question, or ten marks, so they grew, here they are, up to about 700 euros in value. So, on average for the past 20 years, the salary of MPs has not been more than 500 euros on average. The MP who sat in these benches for 20 years means 240 months with an average salary of 500 euros could earn 120,000 euros in total in 20 years. So, if he hadn't spent anything, if he hadn't spent nothing, he couldn't have apartments, couldn't have cars, couldn't have cottages or many other things that Serbian citizens couldn't afford. Therefore, an invitation was opened to check, exactly cross-check, property, the existing property of all MPs sitting in benches from 1990 to today, to see what their tax returns were and how much tax they paid to this state and whether they could cross-reference with the property they reported to this country. So the simplest thing will be to see where the sources of these revenues are and whether they are the same, not only MPs, but also members of the government and all other people in public office were fair to their country and honest to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25376	Thank you. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25377	At first, I said, therefore, the aim and proposal of these laws is, above all, a fairer social distribution in Serbia and a fairer regional distribution. We've been witnesses here, and surely we have a report and a Fiscal Council on the state of finance in local self-government, where real and concrete life takes place. When we talk about the situation, primarily the largest cities in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, we heard from the people of the Fiscal Council that some of these cities are in an unsustainable financial state, that some are in front of bankruptcy and that largely could endanger the overall stability of the financing of the entire Republic of Serbia. We have also heard from many MPs today who have explained their proposals that for the passing of the law in the past five years, the adoption of these laws has brought us about eight to nine billion less income in local self-government compared to what they had in 2012. Our goal is to make that distribution fairer. When you look at this profit map that actually depicts the status of certain parts of Serbia, certain areas, you see that only four areas in Serbia have an average salary above the average salary in the entire Republic of Serbia. These dark blues are marked by the Belgrade area, Southbanatska, Southbačka district and the Borska area. All others in the Western area, Sremska, Pirotska, Pcinjska, Jablanička, Toplicka, Raška, are below the average in the Republic of Serbia's incomes. This speaks of the uneven distribution in the Republic of Serbia. In what way can we at least partially correct that mistake? The bill, in fact, speaks of how all citizens can contribute through participation in public service financing, public enterprises at the level of the Republic of Serbia can be divided in a proportionate relationship, compared to the number of people, for individual cities. We have suggested that income tax is not only related to the territory in which citizens live, because there are advantages of the largest urban centres, but that this income from earnings, from the military, police, health, electricity distribution and large public systems is shared in a proportionate relationship for all local self-government compared to how many citizens they have. This, because we calculated, would contribute around 300m euros annually, in the division would mean 43 euros per capita, which means for a city or municipality of 10 000 residents of 430 000 euros, which would help build school gyms, kindergartens, repair of health centres and those most important to local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25378	I'm putting your proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. No proposal accepted. MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25379	This is one of the simplest draft laws, and I would like to really talk about it in the congregation. It's so logical that I can't believe we can't accept that shared responsibility that we voted for such a law and that we didn't accept the amendment we proposed the moment the NBS Act was passed. This proposal implies that Article 86b is deleted from this law, and here I will read it to you – Governor, Vice-Governors, Director of the Board of Supervisors and other NBS employees are not responsible for the damage incurred in the conduct of the NBS operations unless it is proved that they have not acted to a good degree. So these are the only people in Serbia who are excluded from responsibility, from this kind of responsibility for the management of any system in Serbia. This is one of the most important systems that controls the work of business banks, which controls the work of insurance and imagine that we have abolized them from any responsibility because it proves that someone has done any damage to the business of this system, and thus the entire state needs to prove that he was doing it in bad faith. In any way any court can prove good or bad faith. It is simple, it is necessary to adopt this law because I can speak precisely about the consequences of this lawmaking and what we here in the congregation have supported. Here, we're witnessing that these days it's been written about the BIA present at the Commercial Bank. It is one of two banks in which the Republic of Serbia has its own capital, therefore, next to the Post Office Bank and the Commercial Bank. I am sure that each of us wants to protect the interest and value of the capital of the Republic of Serbia in these banks. So what does BIA research mean after a few years of questioning, here it suggests that there were major problems, there were embezzlements. Well, that should prove it, of course, but I'm just talking about what I see in those media reports. What is the responsibilities of the National Bank over the supervision of the operations of these banks, which also have state capital in their capital structure. So it is our responsibility to protect the value of the capital of the Republic of Serbia, and we will not protect it if we have freed people from any responsibility in such an important system. It's not, of course, the only example. We've also heard about the case of such insurance. I think there's a lot of examples like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25380	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal to resolve Maja Gojkovic from the post of National Assembly President. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25381	We submitted this proposal for the resolution of Maja Gojkovic of the National Assembly President on 13 April 2017, signed by 33 MPs of the opposition and I will read part of this argument out of responsibility to them as their representative. By suspending the work of the National Assembly during the presidential campaign, Maja Gojkovic rudely violated dignity, reduced the importance of the National Assembly and violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The National Assembly is the most representative body and institution of the constitutional and legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia. The president of the National Assembly has violated the article. 2, 3 and 4 which, among other things, are prescribed that sovereignty comes from citizens, who are engaged in a referendum, a national initiative and through their freely elected representatives, and that no state body, political organisation, group or individual cannot claim sovereignty from citizens, nor establish power beyond the free will of citizens, and that the rule of law is a fundamental assumption of the Constitution and rests on inalienable human rights and that the relationship of three branches of government is based on balance and mutual control. So, Maja Gojkovic allowed the executive authority, at that time the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, to dictate the dynamics of work through public information funds, to schedule and cancel sessions, to set breaks in its work, and to subdue the National Assembly to the will of a man. Also, what is extremely important, the president of the National Assembly injured both members of 104 and 106. Constitution, Article 19. Law on the National Assembly, as well as Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which define the responsibilities of the National Assembly president, led to the blockade of the work of the National Assembly during and after the election campaign to elect the President of the Republic. Assessing that during the campaign, the Assembly will not work for stability, Maja Gojkovic confirmed that it considers the assembly a source of instability. So I cannot agree that the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the representatives of citizens in this home, is something that is a source of instability. From day to day, from session to session, including today, we make sure that we have a different relationship and approach, above all to the MPs of the opposition, compared to the MPs of the position. Here, today's example of the session is just talking about it. The opposition proposes more than 100 draft laws. There was no need and nervousness on your part and on this side that in the last five years, we have adopted at least a tenth of the opposition's proposal, such logical laws... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25382	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 11 MPs, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law prohibiting manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and prohibiting the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and markings. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25383	Thank you, President. With this amendment and the addition of the law that I am proposing, in relation to the law that you have read yourself, I am asking that Article 5 of this Law be complemented, which would consider the emphasis of fascist and neo-Nazi symbols or the organisation of fascist and neo-Nazi manifestations to be punishable, wrong and harmful, not only in relation to national minorities, as it currently stands in this law, and not only in relation to churches and religious communities, as it also currently stands in this law, but also in relation to the entire population of the LGBT community. I think it's time, dear fellow Members of Parliament, for you to recognize this in law. It is not enough for the Prime Minister to show up with individual ministers on this year's "Pryde", for example, and it is not enough to just photograph and to be news in some period on the headlines of daily newspapers, in fact sending a message to others, rather than Serbia's interior. What is important to us is what is decided in the Republic of Serbia, and these are the laws of the Republic of Serbia, and it is time for hate, symbols and all urges of neo-Nazis and fascists or manifestations of Nazi and fascist punishments to be directed towards the LGBT community as well. Despite the fact that, for example, the head of the parliamentary group of the majority, Aleksandar Martinovic, spoke openly in this House very humiliatingly about the LGBT community, and in the presence of then the minister and now the prime minister, we all remember very well that the president of the National Assembly was sufling him to stop referring and talk about the LGBT community, with a remark – No, Anna is there. I also appeal to the president of the National Assembly to explain to his colleagues that it is time to recognize the law exactly what I propose. Do not be afraid and afraid of being on the side of human rights and life. It's nothing dangerous, nothing harmful and nothing painful. We all need to be on the side of human rights together, especially those whose rights are at stake. I appeal once again to at least put into debate this proposal to amend and supplement the law. Even if you intervene by raising the level of consideration for the LGBT community, but, come on, encourage yourself and show that you are behind European values and human rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25384	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for eight Messengers, against none, with abstention, none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the dots – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25385	Thank you, President. With this proposal to amend the Criminal Code, I am asking that in the Criminal Code it be recognized as a punishable denial of genocide and war crimes by all courts dealing with this topic and problem, especially when it comes to judgments concerning war crimes and genocide committed on our behalf. Namely, when last year the parliamentary majority changed the Criminal Code and first recognized it, which seemed to be something positive at that time, that future denial of war crimes and genocide would be punishable. I'm saying, it just seemed like something promising. However, when you look at this new member of the law better, you see in fact a complete likeness of these authorities, you see the full hypocrisy of this government, because, by this article, it is only punishable what happened on behalf of some others or in relation to some other victims, not to the perpetrators who did it on our behalf or, moreover, in relation to our victims. Under the criminal code of the Republic of Serbia, the denial of genocide in Rwanda is punishable, but it is not a punishable denial of genocide committed on our behalf. I am here on several occasions accused by the majority MPs of genocide, when I asked that the Cyrillic-Latin script be recognized in law. You're flirting with something that's so heavy and serious, such as genocide, and you can't face it and recognize that genocide isn't a question of numbers, whether the victims were 100 or 100 thousand, but the question is that some people are going to end up disappearing, and by the fact that we have footage of it in The Hague court, that the citizens of Srebrenica or there who have been gathered have been separated into men and women. So there's this genocide intention essentially. I ask you to consider this proposal, to open a debate on this subject, to face the past both the crimes and the genocide that was committed on our behalf. We should not be ashamed of it, we should have the courage to face it, so that we do not wait until tomorrow for military minister Vulin and Ratko Mladic to bring us to teach our military pitomats at the Military Academy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25386	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote, for seven Messengers, against none, with abstention, none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Games of Happiness. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25387	Thank you, President. This is one of the laws that belongs to these so-called so-called laws. non-political laws. I've been proposing him for a year and a half. The intention of this amendment to the Law on Happiness is very simple, and beyond necessary, and that is that all budget revenues from gambling, gambling, poker machines, are shifted to a greater extent to treat conditions and diseases that cannot be successfully treated in the Republic of Serbia. It is amazing to me that no MP has been able for most of the year and a half to press the "yes" button or to support other colleagues to put this amendment and supplement the law on the agenda and to, for God's sake, to children and our fellow citizens who cannot be treated successfully in the Republic of Serbia, as the laws say, increase the budget for the treatment of their condition and disease outside our country, where possible, and not by taking it from schools, from kindergartens, from hospitals. No, these revenues will not be reduced and these funds will not be reduced, but we are taking, or rerouting the funds from games to happiness, I repeat, from bookmakers, poker machines, casinos, etc. Is there really anyone in this room who has so much conscience that he does not support that budget revenues from casinos, poker machines and bookmakers are not being shifted to a greater extent to treat children and our fellow citizens who cannot be successfully treated in the Republic of Serbia? I'm not going to use all the time, I'm going to have another minute and a half, because, really, this kind of pain on this initiative doesn't deserve any further explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25388	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25389	Thank you, President. This is also one of the laws that I propose to amend and supplement for almost over a year, and I ask it to actually return 4.5 billion to the municipalities and cities that the central republican government took from their budgets from last year, and it took them from the safest income, from the safest incomes that have municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia, which is part of the personal income tax. So in order to fill the Republic register, municipalities and cities have been damaged, and not just those revenues or those money belonging to the citizens who are members of the SNS. Everyone knows, everyone knows, it's a public secret that in municipalities and cities, in local self-government, in local administrations, there's a person, as well as in public enterprises, who every month when he gets there he takes part in and earns those employees who are members of the SNS, or recruits them from their profits, because they hired them. That wasn't enough, but then you took the income from all the citizens, who weren't members of the SNS, who filled the local budgets with their profits, because you took the safest part, or part of the income tax. It is also not enough that SNS political commissioners are forcing mayors and presidents of municipalities to sign the illegal implementation of the budget they will be responsible for, not those political commissioners of your party, to empty the budget contrary to the law, to lead to bankruptcy of municipalities and cities in the middle of the current budget year. And that wasn't enough, but you had to take another 4.5 billion of all citizens, all taxpayers, and of those, of course, who aren't members of the SNS. So, I appeal to my colleagues that regardless of what the mayors are, the presidents of the municipalities are mostly or mostly their members, to think that it's terrible what you do to yours, let me say, to the local leaders of the government. You keep them on a short leash, keeping them under financial control and addiction, because you know they'd be kidnapped if it weren't for you, and you know that tomorrow they'd turn their backs on you and wake up and tell you everything you're pressuring and blackmailing them on. Return the money to the municipalities and cities. Let people do their job and open this topic in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25390	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – eight, against – one, with abstentions. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Water Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25391	Thank you. First of all, I would ask my fellow MPs from the ruling coalition not to report anywhere in the Rules of Procedure that they should reject any draft law of the opposition. I've dealt with the Water Act and water falls under natural resources. I ask you to think of natural resources, water, land, forests, air as your grandfather's. If you think of your grandfather as your grandfather, then we will come up with common thinking and you will respond positively to this law. The water law adopted in 2016 by this assembly council is a bad law in November and should be repaired. First of all, according to the EU's assessment, the deadline for meeting the water commitments is in 2041 and for implementing all the measures necessary to lead to a satisfactory level of 8 billion euros. They're really not small funds. I will remind you that anything related to environmental protection requires 12m euros and 8 billion euros for water. The devastating indicator of our non-domestic water relationship, as water always carries something, and they say and remember, are floods from 2014. Indeed, I would ask the MPs once again to think of the waters as a grandfather and then it will not be completely normal for the Rakite River, which is located in a protected nature park, to be burdened with mortgages and, as such, to be entered in the cadastre. Why is she loaded with mortgages? It is burdened with mortgages for the personal benefit of those who work small mini power plants on it and on other flashes, and destroying completely water streams, reading them and not leaving them even a biological minimum in the waterways. Once again, fellow Members of Parliament, please consider the waters and all natural resources as your grandfather and we will come to a completely satisfactory treatment in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25392	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25393	Thank you. Dear fellow Members, we are going towards the opening of Chapter 27 concerning the protection of the environment and everything and to open one day, it is a long way ahead of Serbia to close it. According to the EU's assessment, the deadline for meeting the commitments in this area is 2031, or 2041, in the area of water. It is also a devastating indicator of our concern for the environment. The Republic of Serbia has signed a series of protocols, conventions, to open Chapter 27. However, implementation of all of this, above all, in legislation and still on the ground, is minor. The amendments to the laws that I propose relate primarily to the security of conditions for the application of the European Convention on the Area. I continue to ask you to think about natural resources, because this is about all natural resources, like your grandfather and quoting what the landscape means by this convention – the landscape marks a particular area as people see it and experience it, whose character is the operation and interaction of natural or human factors. The area is tied to all aspects of our lives, and that's why we can't and should not ignore it. The Convention itself includes the protection of natural and cultural areas and should be found, both in this law and in the Cultural Goods Act. However, the ministry gave a negative opinion on this bill that I have proposed, not because the law is bad, but because it cannot be found in two laws. That's the first time I've ever heard of a code of parenting that shouldn't have the term "predeo", and we've signed the Convention on the Protection of the Process. How are we going to protect natural resources, or how are we going to protect that heritage I'm talking about, if even in the legislation, we don't have a definition of a defined “predeo”? We're talking about sustainable development, we've opened up a new ministry, and we haven't defined some basic things, so please, fellow Members, think again and vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25394	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for six, against them, no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the House and Building Maintenance Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25395	Thank you. The Honorable chairman, fellow MPs of the Law on Housing and Building Maintenance, adopted by the assembly assembly at the end of 2016, is actually a very harmful law per Serbian citizens and many injustices have been done to Serbian citizens. These are injustices related to the maintenance of buildings, injustices related to protected tenants, injustices related to social housing, or the famous phantom member 78, the working name is Savamala or "Belgrade on Water". Fantomic Article 78. - why is it called "Belgrade on Water"? Because he's actually an example of how that matrix works. There is a legal procedure for the conduct of personal interest as an interest of public importance. The matrix that makes this happen is next. A personal interest in public interest has been declared, the city's most attractive location with the most expensive city building land has been chosen, Lex specialis has been adopted, urban plans have been corrected, residents have moved out of their homes, these facilities have collapsed, whether they were in the process of legislation or not, and without adopting a solution to the destruction, and the owners of the destroyed objects have been temporarily resolved for five years. This is actually a pilot project that I think will happen all these illegal procedures in Serbia and you should pay a lot of attention to these irregularities. Today it's all happening in Belgrade. Tomorrow it will be happening in your city, you will be in similar situations and will remember "Beograda na Voda" which actually turned out to be a failed project. As far as I understand it, "Belgrade on Water" has cast its profession down the water and is likely to become a brotherly city with Atlantis, and therefore I ask you fellow Members to vote once again for this law and to stand in the way of all the illegal activities of this type in Serbia and your cities.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25396	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Real Estates. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25397	Thank you. I really don't know what's going on with the Ministry of Education, but he's giving his jurisdiction to other ministries. In this case, it gives them to the Chamber of Commerce, we saw them in dual education, it gives them to other ministries, it gives them to the Ministry of Finance, which seems to have the ambition to become the parent ministry of all ministries. Why would training an immobiliser with a short course work for the Ministry of Finance? I really still believe that education has its own ministry and that it should train the evaluators of immovableity or by the Ministry of Education accredited higher education institution from the field of construction or architectural profession. I don't think formal education should be ignored, professions should be respected. I'm a great professional admirer, as well as a practice in the area of real estate assessment. In the bankruptcy process, the immovableity assessment should carry out a judicial skill for the area of construction, given that it is business in charge of the Ministry of Justice, and judicial experts are recognised by experts by this ministry. It is absurd that all the other evaluations in the bankruptcy proceedings are carried out by court experts, and only construction facilities assessors who can be any profession, if they have completed a three-month course for an appraiser at an unfortunate finance ministry. Dear colleagues, I believe it is necessary in the area of immovableity to respect formal education, as well as the responsibilities of the ministries, i.e. the Ministry of Education, as well as the Ministry of Justice, and for this reason I call you to vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25398	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The National MP, Alexander Chabrai, proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Cultural Goods Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25399	Thank you. May this year I submitted a proposal to adopt amendments to the Cultural Goods Act. I'm not even happy to say that I think it's become very obvious in the meantime, although it's been clear for a long time that these changes are necessary. I'm very sorry that we rarely hear about culture, cultural goods in this assembly at all, but I'm trying to do what I'm supposed to do here to make it right as much as possible. I would like to remind you that Serbia's cultural heritage is at risk every day, that we have daily... I really don't have to quote examples of endangering Serbian cultural heritage, I'm sure you all know them, and I don't want to remind you of that, but I would like to remind you that this law with some minor changes was passed back in 1994. If we look at the situation now to adopt new laws here on a daily basis from various areas, I will remind you that the fact that this law has not been amended and that no new law has been passed in this area for so long is clear how much the Serbian state's concern for culture is. Many of my colleagues have already called for a quote attributed to Churchill, not quite certain that he said it, but even if he didn't, I think we should know it and stick to it -- if we lost the battle to preserve cultural heritage, we wouldn't have anything to defend in this country anymore, because we wouldn't practically have a state, but the identity of the people and the state is based on culture, I think all cultural people know that. I will now take another chance, to remind you, first of the fact that I really do not know any single example, despite the daily destruction of cultural heritage in Serbia, that I do not know any single example that anyone was responsible for the destruction of cultural heritage in our country. I'm asking you to remind me if you know of at least one single example. Also, I'm going to remind you that this proposal only requires that we put on the agenda amendments to the Cultural Goods Act. This does not mean that we will adopt these changes, but it could mean that if you voted for this proposal, that perhaps for the first time we would really talk about culture, cultural heritage, cultural goods of Serbia which are and how threatened they are. I truly believe that none of you have any reason not to advocate the preservation of cultural heritage, and I sincerely ask you to accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-14-0.u25400	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, I ask that before we determine the agenda, we determine the quorum. I find 131 MPs present in the O.R. National MP Vladimir Orlic proposed that a joint, principled, single search be carried out on: a draft law on medical means, a draft law supplementing the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health and a proposal for a law on the validation of the Clinical Centre/C Financial Contract between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. Does Ambassador Orlic want a word? (No) I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no two MPs voted for – 132 against – five abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, supplementing the agenda and the proposal for a merger of the debate, I would like to put to the vote the draft agenda, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 132 against – two abstentions – there is no vote, no vote by five MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the third session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in 2017, in general. I ask the service to prepare for us for tomorrow a consolidated agenda text. We're done for today. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 68 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 98 MPs are present in the hall. I would like to inform you that today the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic, Milisav Petronijevic and Gordana Lazic. We continue to work and move on to a common principle and uniform search on points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by the Minister of Health, Dr Zlatibor Loncar, with his associates at the Ministry of Health. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they have already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a joint, principled and uniform search on the Proposal for a Law on Medical Means; Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Health Documentation and Records in the field of Health and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Financial Contract of the Clinical Centres/C between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. Does Minister Zlatibor Loncar want a word? Here you go, the Minister of Health has a word.
