ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22531	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 75 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall and that we can continue our work. Whether one of the presidents, and authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Fatmir Hasani.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22532	Thank you. I ask the question to the government – since the 1960s, the Presovo and Bujanovac municipalities have had basic courts and basic prosecutions, and the misdemeanor courts have functioned not only in Presevo and Bujanovac, but also in Medvedja. However, the reform of the judicial system started in 2008, and continued in 2013, there was an unwarranted reduction of judicial institutions in these municipalities. In fact, the municipality of Presevo has lost the basic court and the General Prosecutor's Office, and only the units of these Vranj judicial institutions currently operate in Bujanovac instead of the General Prosecutor's Office and the Criminal Court. And in Medvedja, instead of the former Court of Violations, there is only one unit left of this Lebanese court. With this drastic centralization and the abolition of judicial institutions, citizens are very severely damaged in access to justice because they are exposed to huge financial costs for participation in court proceedings. It is totally irrational for all law enforcement actors from the farthest villages of Presevo to travel 55 km. To Vranj, and 40 km. from Bujanovac to Vranj. Especially when it is known that because of the fact that these municipalities are borderline and through them passes Corridor 10. The number of court cases in these municipalities is far greater than the number of court cases in municipalities where the basic courts and the basic prosecution function. On the other hand, this reduction has largely made it impossible for Albanians to be involved in judicial institutions, although the current participation of Albanians in the judicial system is only symbolic. Just because Albanians are not involved in judicial bodies, it is still impossible to implement the law, provided for the right to use the Albanian language officially in court proceedings. We know that the government adopted a seven-point programme in June 2013, which envisioned resolving this sensitive problem, but in November of the same year, amendments to our MPs were rejected, making the situation worse. In this situation I ask the government – what is it planning to do to solve this very important Albanian life problem in the Presevo Valley as soon as possible? The second issue – The government of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia made a decision in 2005 to open three border crossings with Macedonia on the territory of the Presevo municipality, one in the border crossing on the territory of the municipality of Trgovište. While a border crossing has long opened in the municipality of Trgovište, no border crossing has been opened in Presevo municipality for the past 12 years. There is no border crossing on the main local road of Presevo municipality, in which a very frequent traffic line that connected a large number of settlements on both sides of the border previously worked. And on both sides of the state border at a distance of 2 km. There are two large settlements, Miratovac with 5,000 inhabitants and Lojana from Macedonia with 4,000 inhabitants. Since 1992, citizens of these two large villages, besides other very difficult problems, especially in the processing of agricultural areas, have even greater problems in mutual communication, because they have only one direction to travel to 25 km. with several hours of traffic jam waiting, created at the Presevo border crossing, which are very common because this border crossing is located on Belgrade's highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22533	Thank you. You've wasted your time. Thank you. The next reported is Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22534	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ani Brnabic – why did the government of the Republic of Serbia not immediately declare the son of an American ambassador to Belgrade as a person of non grat as soon as he publicly attacked the minister of defence of the Republic of Serbia? He attacked the defence minister for praise words expressed in favour of the famous Serbian General Vladimir Lazarevic, who was sentenced to The Hague tribunal without any legal basis. For the first time, the defence minister, after the mob's peto-octobar revolution, took the honor of the country, the honour of Serbian generals, the honor of Serbian weapons. If anyone is innocently convicted in The Hague, then it's General Lazarevic. In his judgment, he said, whenever he found out about any crime, he was immediately informing the military authorities of the investigation. They admit it, but they say – they should have stopped all the military facts until it was investigated. What army in the world would do that? And not only is General Lazaravić innocent of being sentenced to The Hague tribunal, they are completely innocent and Nikola Sainovic is convicted on the assumption that he was close to Slobodan Milosevic. Nebojsa Pavkovic, a third army commander based in Nis, also convicted on the assumption that he is close to Milosevic. There's no crime. Then, in other cases, we have the case of Vinko Pandurevic who is admitted to release three to five thousand Muslim members of 28. Divisions, to get away with Tuzla in 1995, and he could have killed them all. The truth would have killed 100-200 Serb soldiers. He let them all out, and they sentenced him to 13 years in prison, because he didn't stop some others he didn't have the authority to kill, about a thousand prisoners of war. A number of others are innocent, jailed in European prisons, there were both Serbian generals and Serbian politicians. Serbia needs to show that it knows about honor and dignity and to deny this Scott's hospitality, which has already crossed over to us once the election results in the Assembly have introduced political parties that have not passed the censorship. This is also a warning to the Serbian government, that it should take much more attention to the protection of Serbs, who are still in The Hague tribunal and Serbs who are on the basis of penalties across Europe, to improve the protection measures for their families, visits and to improve their other living conditions, including the assignment of Serbian citizenship to those who do not have it, and they want to have it. Of course, it should always be borne in mind that not all Serbs indicted before The Hague tribunal were innocent. There are also those who are truly criminals. Once Sljivancanin was tried by a Serbian court, he would not have been sentenced under ten years in prison. It is necessary to keep in mind when public events are, in the name of the government, that someone read these Hague verdicts, to see exactly who was innocently convicted, and who really had some guilt. It's a shame, a little bit, when the people we know are guilty of showing up at public events, and Sljivancanin took 200 prisoners from the Vukovar hospital and instead of escorting them to Sremska Mitrovica, to prison, he took them to Ovcar. I have no evidence that he knew about the shooting or that he was involved in the shooting.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22535	MP, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22536	Just one sentence. But the Guard brigade was still in Vukovar for three days, and he had to investigate what happened to those prisoners.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22537	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22538	First question for BIA director Bratislava Gasic – how many listening centres are there in Belgrade and where are they? Did BIA import listening equipment during 2014 and 2015, who is the same manufacturer and where it is currently installed? We also request the delivery of documentation to the circumstances referred to in the asked question. Second question for the Director of Customs. We request the delivery of official notes by the officials of this administration, which during 2014, during the customs supervision and inspection of imported goods of the Chinese producer "Huawei", which was imported by the company Roming Electronics owned by Nenad Kovac for user Telekom Srbija, found that equipment that does not correspond to customs documentation and which is not available in free circulation, because imports of these goods require special permits. Also, we demand the delivery of information to which the order of this kind is nevertheless decorated and imported into the Republic of Serbia, with the same not being delivered to Telekom Srbija as a user marked in the customs documentation. We require the Director of Customs Administration to supply data and documentation on imports of equipment from producers ‘Huawei’ and ‘Samsung’ from 2013 to 2016, and for users of BIA, VBA, VOA, ‘Telecom’, ‘Telenor’ and VIP. The third question to the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Health – what was done after the letter of 13 June 2017 to urgently resolve the return of the license to the owner of a "Yugomedia" in the bankruptcy of Zrenjanin, and that the tenant, in accordance with the agreement on the transfer of licences to the drug, is achieved by means of a judicial procedure, which would allow the sale of factories, out of bankruptcy and the opening of more than 200 new jobs. We note that a.d. "Yugormedia" is owned by the state of the Republic with 42% of capital, that creditors representing state institutions have recognised claims close to 10m euros and that the factory's ability to employ more than 200 workers immediately after the sale. Otherwise, the factory is estimated at 32m euros, and only the drug licenses cost 16m euros. It's a question for the Department of Economy. Taking into account the fact that, on the basis of the Regulation on the recording of the outstanding obligations of social enterprises under the judgments carried out for a request from labour relations, the Privatisation Agency has recorded 82,486 submitted applications and notified them by the Ministry of Businesses, and given that in 2014, the Working Group for the preparation of regulations has been established to regulate the manner of regulating the outstanding obligations of social enterprises under the maintenance of the judgments for a request from the employment relationship, I am asking the following question: has the said working group prepared the rules and fulfilled the task for which it was established; is there any plan to pay off the outstanding obligations of social enterprises after the judgments carried out to seek out work relations? The fifth issue also to the Ministry of Economy: considering that, under the Regulation on the recording of the outstanding obligations of social enterprises under executive rulings, the Privatisation Agency has processed 82,486 applications of the claim. In view of the fact that the 2014 Budget Act provides for the expenditure of the Ministry of Economy, under the position of 621, the purchase of domestic financial assets of 33 billion and 400 million dinars, and the means of this appraisal are intended for the purchase of claims based on the working relationship in the privatisation process of 17 billion and 400 million dinars, I ask the following question – are there any planned funds for the payment of the leftover claims for these 82,486 registered and processed applications, and which number of workers have so far been paid off? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22539	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22540	A question for Minister Dacic. A meeting of US and Russia special envoys for the Ukraine of Kurt Volker and Vladislav Surkov took place in Belgrade on Saturday. After tweeting Mr. Volker to come to Belgrade for a meeting with his Russian panda, the Serbian media tried to cover up the news of this meeting, but after the State Department confirmed the visit, the attempt became in vain. My question is: is it that, given that Mr Surkov has been on the EU list since 2014, and whose property is frozen in the Member States, we are moving away from the EU by organising such meetings, or by meeting the criteria in relation to Chapter 31? In addition, the question arises whether, in addition to Serbia hosting secret diplomacy, it may also be a participant in secret negotiations concerning issues regulated by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Another question for Minister Dacic – when will the new Foreign Affairs Act enter the assembly procedure? I asked the Minister about this one year ago for a session of the Committee on Foreign Policy, but I haven't received an answer yet. I would like to remind you that in July 2013, previous Minister Mrkic announced that within two weeks, this law will be in the assembly procedure, but since then it has been more than four years. During the four years, only the degradation of our diplomatic service, which is the most responsible foreign minister, was continued. The degradation of the testimony, to say the least, and not for the first time, the inappropriate behaviour of the minister, this time during a visit by Turkish President Erdogan, which has made our country a laughing stock. The Prime Minister's question, Mrs. Brnabic. As part of the periodical rise in tensions with the Republic of Croatia, Defence Minister Aleksandar Vulin attended the newly elected bishop of the Dalmatian Nikodima in the Krk monastery on October 1st. He, namely, previously accompanied by a military envoy in the Republic of Croatia landed at Zemunik Airport. I will remind you that Zemunik Airport was the military airport used by JNA during the war in Croatia, or the siege of Zadar. Therefore, my question to the Prime Minister – in what capacity did Minister Vulin attend the enthronement of the bishop Nicodemus, or did the government order him to represent her at the event? One more question to the Prime Minister: Please provide me with the number of cancelled or delayed visits to the Republic of France during the three-month ban on the travel of civil servants to this country, and to answer whether all ministries have complied with these prohibitions, and to provide me with the number of government conclusions on the basis of which these visits are banned, since there is a reasonable doubt that such a decision has never been made by the Government. Question for European Integration Minister Mrs Joksimovic: When will she start taking her job seriously, i.e. by removing obstacles to EU membership, and by stopping making too much political statements aimed at internal use? In fact, a few days ago, the minister said she didn't know what freedom of the media meant and that most of the media had become semi-tabloid and tabloid, giving the best assessment of work as well as the government's lack of work in this area for the past five years. The report on Serbia's progress by the European Commission, as well as the European Parliament's report, says that there is no progress in the area of freedom of expression, and that only censorship on top of that is worsening, that there is a strong political impact on the media, that journalists are exposed to threats and violence, that media critical of the government are exposed to attacks, that the ownership structure in the media is non-transparent, and that there is a political impact on the work of the regulatory body. Unfortunately, in Brussels, Prime Minister Brnabic referred to this statement by Minister Joksimovic, denying this situation in the media and insulting the entire journalistic profession by saying that there are almost no objective journalists in Serbia. Speaking of visiting the Prime Minister of Brussels, I would ask her if she would be more responsible in the future to approach foreign policy issues and avoid situations that would undermine the country's weak foreign political reputation, as was the case in the event of an announcement that she would take a letter asking for clarification on the different approach of the European Union to the issues of Catalonia and Kosovo, so that only a day or two after that announcement would give up this intention? Question for Minister of Labour Djordjevic – will respect the laws and a single system that regulates the rules on sickness and give up the satisfaction of foreign investors, following talks with which the pilot announced the project and so on. the agreed mechanism of disease control? Instead, it would be desirable to check the working conditions of factories and the attitude towards employees. And the latest issue of Finance Minister Vujovic, or the Budgetary Commission of the Ministry of Finance, as well as the Director of the Public Procurement Administration Predrag Jovanovic – will in these cold winter days be able to overcome the New Year's mood and comply with the legal obligation to check tenders for New Year's Enlightenment in Belgrade, whose conditions could satisfy only one Kip Light firm? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22541	Thank you. The word is Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22542	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I question the government of the Republic of Serbia. As we had the opportunity to see in the past few days, “14. October" in Krusevec was sold directly by the government of the Republic of Serbia and investors. In doing so, there is no information in the media that is actually priced for, for the simple reason that this great giant in Kruševec from the fifth attempt, failed, went into failure, according to those who represent the representatives of the workers from that factory. The company to which it was sold ‘14. October" is undeniable and has huge companies in its possession. However, the daughter of a recent business in Serbia has obviously not only certain connections but also special relations with the government of the Republic of Serbia, as it is speculated that it is a price of half a million euros. What's my question is – at which exact price the contract sold "14. October"? That's the first one. There are indications and information that it is half a million euros, but if only the coin "14. October" cut into iron and sold, would be worth 2m euros. The smithy is only one part “14. October’, in Kruševec. This is a very important issue, because we are interested in the extent to which the government treats and sells the property of the Republic of Serbia? How and in what way are there privileged investors, private persons, who are in certain even related relationships with individuals from the government of the Republic of Serbia or the Serbian presidency, who have the opportunity to come up with such large assets for such small money? It is also a question of – what is the estimated value of “14” before the sale. October" in Kruševec? The question is very important, so that they know how much they actually came out to meet a potential buyer, how much did the government of the Republic of Serbia give up money, or put a private investor in a pocket? What is the amount of subsidies for new jobs? The media says some 150 new jobs will be opened, but it is not claimed that the previous 130 workers will keep their jobs. What is also important, I ask the question because it is even possible to get to it for availability of information of public importance – what is the price "14. In October, and why is it "14. October" sold for half a million euros? Also, whether the Minister of Business and whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in this or some previous term, has referred any private firm from Serbia or abroad to a letter saying it was ready to give a much larger amount for "14. October of which did the Government conclude with a direct contract? Is it true that one of the executives in the firm is related to Mr Selakovic, who is the Secretary General of the Presidency of the Republic of Serbia? Is it possible that every time a SNS official sits on a chair or his cousin or his godfather, friend or brother has previously done business in such an untransparent way? It is someone who has been announced to be the bearer of the list in Belgrade for the future Belgrade elections. We are interested in whether he will treat the next day or intend to treat Belgradeers as well, since we have had the opportunity to see how the Government of the Republic of Serbia, through direct contracts, met and "Belgrade on the Water" and the new owner of the "Depos," who privatised the "Depo" before very suspicious circumstances, and also when it comes to a dump, or a burner in Vinci, which has been provided by a private person while the City of Belgrade will only have damage and will not benefit from it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22543	Thank you, MP. The word is by MP Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22544	A question for the Prime Minister, Ms. Ana Brnabic – when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia send a bill to the National Assembly to end the alleged temporary reduction of wages and pensions? We remind you, the Serbian government is reducing public sector wages and pensions by the end of 2017. Temporarily, it can't be something that lasts for three years. Serbian citizens have the right to know where their salaries and pensions are transferred and when will they be returned to the previous state? Question for Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development Mladen Sarčević – will Milan Pusic, Director of the elementary school "King Alexander First" in New Belgrade, also be mentioned? We were approached by parents of children attending this elementary school and based on letters sent by parents of children, it is clear that the school has been brought into an inaccessible abandoned state over the last 16 years, during which Pusica is the director. Over 800 students are available only two wet knots that are in inadequate condition, the yard is insecurely surrounded by rusty and broken fences, as well as half-panned concrete blocks in the yard. These are not aesthetic issues, but very serious security and hygiene issues that were inadmissible and that had to be resolved long ago. Question for Culture Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic – how long has it been with the realization of the government's conclusion since November 2016? Is there a proposal for a new founding act of the museum and when will the work of the new board of directors and supervisors begin? The complex status of this institution requires and answers from the defence minister. The special act envisions taking over the museum by the end of this year. Also, the government's decision to shut down the museum, which should be followed by the liquidation of the institution's material-financed business. During the liquidation, all employees would be given a solution to the termination of the labour contract. A specific question for Defence Minister Alexander Vulin – how does it explain that, despite the fact that the government has not yet made any decision that would put aside its own plan to establish a new institution of culture, the Ministry of Defence has voluntarily launched processes that have not been approved by the government? The complexity of this case also calls for a question aimed at Finance Minister Dusan Vujovic – is the financing of the Air Force Museum foreseen by the planned Government of the Republic of Serbia for 2018? A question for the Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications Rasim Ljajic – does the Ministry have a clearly defined strategy for tourism development, which would make the Republic of Serbia a tourist attraction in the Balkans without including a New Year's lighting set in September? A question for the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. Today is the 80th day that the president promised to provide the media with evidence of his claims regarding a statement given on Pink TV, which reportedly included media associations, then said false research houses and political organisations that organised the protests were getting money for a campaign against him over the Savamala case. The president mentioned the amount of 35m to 40m euros spent in an alleged campaign against him. So, we repeat, when can we expect concrete evidence for this claim? A question for the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic -- how is it possible that our GDP is growing so brightly, fastest in the region, and is there a danger of developing too much? Question for Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic – when will regular colleges in the National Assembly finally begin? When are we going to get a plan of work of the Assembly, an annual work plan, as is the Rules of Procedure, because for a year and a half, from June 3rd of last year, we are doing a verse, by emergency procedure, in united debates, not knowing today what laws will be on our agenda at all next week? For a quality discussion in this home, we need serious preparation, which has been disabled, given that we do not know any plan of work of the National Assembly. We remind the chairman to put a proposal on his shift on the agenda, as she promised on several occasions. So far we've asked this question 20 times, this is the 21st time we've done it. So far, we have not received a single answer, despite the fact that the speaker of the assembly has a legal deadline of 15 days to answer these questions. So I repeat the question in this twenty-first address – when will we finally get answers to these questions? This is also the 27th time we have asked the current president of the Republic of Serbia – when will he stop breaking the Constitution and resign as SNS president, so that he will not be in conflict of interest, so that he will finally become president of all Serbian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22545	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22546	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, first question for the Ministry of Justice – Is there a conflict of interest when a person employed by the Anti-Corruption Agency controls his child who is a member of the Parliament? Is it a conflict of interest, because it controls its leader, and it is likely that there are from this conflict and interest and some other interest to have the daughter housed in the National Assembly? A question for the Ministry of Justice, even if you experience it again, make sure, is it true that there are MPs who have parents at the Anti-Corruption Agency who control them? Another question, related to the same, and I ask the Agency for Money Laundering and the Ministry of Finance to provide me with information is it true that this relationship is not the reason why Saša Radulovic's deposit, his close persons connected to each other, wives, etc., that some associations have hidden about 500,000 euros mainly in the "Integration Bank" and that thanks to that link at the Anti-Corruption Agency, this has never been investigated to the end? The following question concerns RTS, i.e. the Minister of Information. What will be done about the censorship of my 30-second harvest remnant statement, which is Natasa Mijushkovic, with the help of Nenada LJ. Stefanovic was censored, saying they wouldn't let people off the farm. It's an insult to all our farmers, peasants. Well, I'm asking the Minister of Information - what will he do about this outrageous censorship, and it was carried out by RTS in the days 1998 to 2000. I believe this to be an upheaval. My next question concerns security authorities. What will the security authorities do about the alleged NGO, in fact the spy Thaci Center, which is called the Youth Committee on Education, which is run by a certain Naim Leo Beshiri, a person who was employed by Sonja Biserko, a person who was also employed by the Anti-Corruption Agency, who, while working at the Anti-Corruption Agency, is extracting data and funding against top state officials, thus providing the source of information "Krik" etc.? In this organization there are also Sama Shabani, Bilinora Shalja, Nijar Kelja, and it is an organisation that is under Thaci's control and has called in time for a visit no less than Thaci, whom we have condemned here as a criminal who has committed a crime against the Serb population. So I ask this question, because they are benefiting as some kind of spy network, which along with some politicians, have been seen in society, let's say, Borislav Stefanovic, while he was still Borislav, probably hanging out and since he became Borko Stefanovic, Jelena Milic has been observed in his society, while I have information, a certain Janjic, in this regard, that I have information that the said organisation is funded by the US and UK embassies. So it's a dangerous society. That's why I'm asking these relationships to be examined. Only security authorities can do that because MPs are not authorized to do this kind of work. In the end, I would like to thank the government for the information I received about Goran Jesic's apartment in Vienna, where I am informed that due to the non-reporting of this property, therefore, no acquisition, the main court in Stari Pazova is being held. So much for that saying, I mean, Mrs. Gordane Komic, when I made that claim, when she said here in front of all the MPs that I was lying. I want to thank the organs this way. Finally, to ask the question – what about the House of the Smederjevska Palanka Army, which was purchased by the municipality for 40 million and sold to a private company for 24 million? Is there some kind of investigation going on and what she showed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22547	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22548	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question has been addressed to the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, regarding the tentious and false allegations of a certain group of citizens calling themselves some kind of movement by some citizens, free citizens, or who knows what, as in certain Belgrade municipalities, it seems to me that there has been an increase in the number of voters in the polling list. You remember, it was a failed presidential candidate, a former Citizen Protector, who remained famous for not doing his job, and for which he was given a fantastic sum of money in the name of pay. Despite the fact that we know that this is a completely notorious untruth, despite the fact that the City Municipality of Vrachar on the same day, it seems to me, has officially denied such claims, despite the fact that the interior minister has officially declared himself, I appeal and call on the competent ministry, therefore, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, and I think it is necessary that they both advertise and reject these crazy and, I repeat, very malicious lies. I will read a notice on the number of voters enrolled in the unique polling list for the territory of Vračar City Municipality. So Vračar City Municipality announced that on today, October 4, 2017, 63.310 voters with voting rights were listed in a unique polling list for the territory of the municipality. The comparisons, on the day of elections for the President of the Republic, on 2 April 2017, included 63,656 voters, or 346 voters more than these Jankovics tried to agree. So, so much for that. Although I'm not surprised because it's a party whose action is based on a lie. What exactly is this about, the chairman? It's about creating an atmosphere as to how to prepare some electoral theft, and in fact it's about preparing a field for an election failure waiting for them in the upcoming elections for the city of Belgrade. They know that well. In as many columns as they go, as many candidates as they have, they know well that they are facing electoral failure. Because who's going to vote for them? Who will vote for the same ones who have devastated and replaced the city of Belgrade for years and decades? Who will vote for the option that Belgrade left in debts of nearly 1.2 billion euros? So almost 500,000 euros the city directly has debts. But when urban municipalities and public utility debts are included, the figure is almost 1.2 billion euros. Who's gonna pay that money back? These are debts that we've been paying back for the past few years, and most importantly, without additional borrowing, without the dinars of new loans, and we've paid back almost half solely on the basis of real bases and on the basis of our own savings. That's why today in Belgrade is a record construction. That's why it's a record number of capital investments. That's why we have over 500 construction sites. That's why we have tens of thousands of new registered entrepreneurs. That's why we have over tens of thousands of new jobs. That's why public enterprises don't do business with our losses. What were they doing? Just come up with combinations and ways to make them rich. And Gilas tycoon, and Shapic and Sutanovac, and all of them together, just make combinations and think how it is possible to put another dinar in their pocket. Making bad deals, harmful contracts, we don't have enough time, I'll only take one. Dragan Djilas and Aleksandar Sapic, while ruling Belgrade, made a deal with Milija Milosavljevic, a curator, under which the City of Belgrade must pay as much as 23,700 euros each month by 2020 for the lease of kindergartens in Altina. Suddenly, in their time, Altina becomes a terrace and a more expensive and attractive location than the Terrace. Altina! Twenty thousand and seven hundred euros per month The city of Belgrade pays by 2020, so. This is how Dragan Djilas tycoon, Shapic, Sutanovac and everyone else thought and ran Belgrade City.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22549	I thank my colleague Markovic. As none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for the word, we continue to work. Notice of the absence of the People's Messengers. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milovan Drecun, Branimir Jovanovic and Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. We continue the search in detail on item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for an Amending and Supplemental Law on State Officials pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session: Dr Rasim LJajic, Deputy Prime Minister of Trade and Telecommunications, Branko Ruzic, Minister of State Administration and Local Government, Zoran Kasalovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Drazen Maravic, Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Sava Savic, Assistant Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Jasmina Benmansur, Deputy Assistant Minister of State Administration and Local Government, Jelena Parezović, Special Advisor of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Ivona Simic, Deputy Prime Minister, Milan Dobrijevic and Natalija Radoja, Senior Advisors at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications and Milan Vojvodić, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. Before we move to a discussion in particular, we'll take two minutes off to get government representatives in the meantime. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22551	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, civil servants are the mirror of the state and I think the government should do everything in its power to arrange this area and to recognise the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22552	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The People's MP, Nenad Christmas, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's Messenger, Nenad Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22553	My amendment to the second article concerns, first of all, the abolition of three points under Article 97. What makes me think these three points should be lifted? This applies to points 2), (3) and (4). Point 2) shall read as follows: if it is late in the national authority to comply with the obligations established or to comply with the deadlines set within at least 10% of the obligations and procedures. In my opinion, that means sending that employee or a group of employees to some additional training. As far as I'm concerned, I don't know how it's determined, based on some procedure being late, that there's a reason for officials to be trained again. I'd like the minister to explain that to me. If something is late in a procedure or not being carried out, the reason must not only be the lack of training or knowledge or the existence of certain performers’ skills, but it may be, for example, that this process is not organised properly, that some other resources are not adequate for doing this job, that there may be no time to start a particular job, that delay has occurred at an earlier stage, and one reason may be that officials are not adequately doing their job and that this may be the reason for some of their negligence. One reason may also be that they may not have some fundamental knowledge to do these tasks, because they are employed on a party line and do not have some fundamental knowledge that they should have acquired at some of their previous levels of schooling, whether it is a high school or a university. I don't think this point makes any sense, because it doesn't paint... It means that if someone doesn't do their job and doesn't meet the deadlines, we need to train him indefinitely. So, in six months if he does it again, we need to train that officer again. As I said, there must be no reason for his lack of training, but for all the other reasons that I have already stated. In addition, point 3 states – if, in the administrative or judicial control procedure, the legality of administrative acts brought by the state authority or its organisational unit is withdrawn or cancelled at least 10% of the acts which were subject to control. I can practically repeat what I said before. There doesn't have to be any reason to say that 10% of acts have been abolished or cancelled, that officials don't have adequate knowledge and skills. We assume that someone started working in the state service by being already dressed. So he should already know his job, so if something like this happens, there's probably a reason to look into something else. Either this organization of business or the process itself or simply that the officials do not work, they do the job with care, and as you know in the Law on civil servants there is a provision, i.e. Members of the law under which civil servants are evaluated, where they receive grades, those five estimates of whether they satisfy or not, to the extent that they stand out. This doesn't work the same way because it means that we could, no matter what someone makes some peas out of neglect, train him all the time and have no responsibility for that job, and I'm saying again that there doesn't have to be an official's fault. There may be other reasons. You have an example of this if you look at Serbia's budget and the cities' budgets. These are huge amounts of money for paying some fines and some of the pens that were created precisely because the actions were not managed properly. These are the things that can be, there are really millions. I know about Kragujevac, a few million euros. If you look at Serbia's budget, it's millions of dollars. It's probably similar in most municipalities, if you see. What does 10% of the action mean? One can also undo 10% of acts that have a minor impact on, say, the budget or other things that are related to the lives of citizens, so far as they are not affected, let's just say one mistake or one lost procedure in a court procedure can cost a city or a state or an institution or a public enterprise millions of euros, for example. What's up with that? Where's that personal responsibility? Here it comes down to training. So if someone doesn't do something right, then let's train him or if he's not able to do it right because he doesn't have the right conditions, we'll say let's train him again. I believe that this should be covered by some broad reform of the state administration where there will be objectives, where the impact of work will be measured and on which it will be seen whether there is insufficient training, whether there is a lack of fundamental knowledge, or whether there is a lack of material resources, organisations, etc. I see from this that someone who is a party employee, who has bought a diploma and does not have the fundamental skills to do his job and thus cannot do the job and does not achieve some results, the state should invest additional efforts and additional resources to train him, and the one who bought the diploma and who thus came to work in the public service, which is in some way a privilege because working in the state service is still a privilege, he spends state resources and still has the right to be trained during working hours. That's inadmissible for me. Similarly, if the inspection and other forms of control and legality and purpose of work are ordered by the competent authority to measure or establish a recommendation to remove identified deficiencies in relation to the use of acquired knowledge and skills – it remains the same thing again. How could someone even come to work at a job if they didn't have knowledge and skills? How is that possible? Then it's not just the responsibility of that clerk himself that we're going to train extra. It's the responsibility and leadership, his boss, the manager, the chief of staff, the director, whatever his name is. I have another part in this amendment that I'm going to talk about, and that's on Article 97d, where the mandatory elements and parts of the professional training program are listed, and now we have nine different points, and with that I agree, there should be an area of professional training, a description of the programs that are intended, a description of the target group, a projection of costs. It's all right. That's how it's supposed to be. It's all okay. But here one by one is missing a key element that should contain every training program, which is a way of estimating training, the literature itself and the trainer by the students. If you have ever followed any practice of doing it today in the world and where you can find a bunch of recommendations everywhere, one of the key elements of the evaluation of some training is just the evaluation by the students themselves. So they themselves have to give an assessment of whether they really learned something there. In this way, you will also be able to value these trainers because sometimes they can be civil servants themselves, as far as I can see, who are employed in the Academy or employees of state authorities, and can also be some companies or individuals who engage on the side to keep training. That is why I believe it is necessary to introduce an evaluation of the training and literature offered to the students, as well as to evaluate the exercise of training. I think it's one of the key things. That's the only way you'll be able to achieve some quality in that. Otherwise, some lecturers can teach nonstop or, if they are extremely engaged, simply enroll as references to teaching. But that doesn't mean anything if we don't have the same feedback from the students. After all, I say, look at how they work in the world of academy or private training firms, so you'll see that after each training, you always have one questionnaire where training students themselves value training, as well as literature, as well as trainers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22554	I thank my colleague Christmas. National MP Vladimir Djuric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Branka Stamenković and Tatjana Macura together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word has a national MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22555	Thank you. My amendment goes in the same direction as my colleague Christmas. The basic intervention is in the proposed addition of Article 97a, which lists situations where there is a need for professional training of civil servants. In point 2, it is said – if the public authority is late in the adoption of certain acts which are obliged to adopt or break permanent deadlines which are legally established, then these civil servants should be sent for professional training. She suggested that it be deleted. I think it's completely backwards logic, because if there's two possible reasons late, probably more than two, and I've come up with two. One is that it's too much work on that amount of civil servants. Please, we have a public sector employment ban. Perhaps the size of the work has increased and there are not enough people and no improvement will solve the problem. Another possible situation is that we simply have civil servants who do not work. No professional training will help him to work either. In the second variant under point 3 of the training, a civil servant whose act has been adopted turned out to be against the law. He doesn't need professional training. He needs basic training. This man apparently bought a degree and should now go back to basic studies on the cost of the state and learn to do something he should have known to do before he was admitted to that workplace. So I suggested erasing these two conditions, these two situations that are considered to be a need for professional training, under point 2 and point 3, because there is absolutely no logic that in these situations, in this second situation, if someone does not know how to do their job, it is not the basis for professional training, it is the basis for breaking up work relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22556	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. The People's MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22557	I thank the chairman. The debate on this law in particular, that is, according to the amendments three days ago, was concluded here by the lecture of Parliament of the People's Republic of Gojkovic, to our opposition MPs that we do not know that we are writing amendments, how the arguments on the amendments written, the amendment debate takes place, is not adequate or unskilled. That's not true and that's not true, I tried to disprove it, but I hope you'll give me more time to continue the debate to keep doing it, because it's only true and that's the only truth. Our amendments are excellent, our amendments are good. We believe the minister should accept them and there is a possibility during the session itself. What is also true is that the legislators of this law do not know how to write laws, and they sign them like Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Either she didn't read what she suggested and signed what we now need to discuss and make decisions or she should be the first student I've said to the National Academy of Public Administration. After all, we are honored by someone from the parliamentary majority who doesn't even know the name of the Prime Minister. I remember very well that MP Bečić persistently called Brbalić so, Brbalić, while reading the written text...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22558	My colleague Tepic...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22559	What is true and what is true is that the legislator of this law in this Article 2 if he knew how to do business, would not suggest all that is to be found in sublegal acts or in the law of the National Academy of which the debate has already been concluded. You've done a piece of legal or legislative reading here that doesn't belong in this Civil Service Act that you're trying to change. All you have stated in these subsections to Article 2 is the subject of sublegal acts, i.e. regulations on the work of the National Academy or, possibly, the law of the National Academy of Public Administration, not the subject of this law, where you have laid down everything concerning the National Academy, and not what should be the scope and scope of this law. We consider that an existing solution to the Civil Service Act is much better than what you have proposed, very constructively we have proposed an amendment with certain amendments, but in such a way as not to produce additional sections and provisions of this article and to rebuke the reading completely unnecessary, but it is your mirror that you think laws should be written. I also find it very irresponsible and incorrect for us to respect the ignorance of amendments and debates, and on the other hand to get an explanation for the refusal of amendments that read, for example, that our amendments are incomplete or fail to achieve the goal that law-making is intended to achieve, which is clear evidence that you are not only reading the laws that you are proposing, but also amendments that the MPs are very zealously and worth writing. I urge you to read the constructive amendments and accept them and correct them at the moment, and immediately upon your return to the Government, suggest that the State Expert Examining Regulation be amended and all the nice jujutura, the members of the Government begin to train the writing of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22560	By amendment, MP Mihajlo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22561	I'm re-announced to article 103. This lady or lady constantly disrupts order and work in the Serbian Parliament. Her every discussion begins with insults and injuries, and I ask her not to allow it anymore. That in the beginning, as soon as she started to insult herself and as soon as she started talking off the topic, she immediately turned off the microphone, because she had been having a discussion at the previous session, because she was the first one, that the whole debate had gone the wrong way that day. If you remember, that's when I discussed it and told her to shut down, to talk without a microphone, to tell her story, because she probably has to talk, to keep working normally. There's been so much hatred in a woman, some dissatisfaction that I just can't get out that it's possible on these occasions. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22562	Thank you, Mr. Yokic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. I don't think I hurt a member of 103 for one simple reason. Many times so far, I have said that you cannot always predict what the MPs will talk about, explaining the amendment they have submitted. The moment I personally thought that her colleague had gotten a little off the subject, I tried to suggest and ask her, not to turn off her microphone, but to suggest and ask her to still talk about the amendment she submitted to Article 2. Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Marinika Tepic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22563	Thank you. I believe that the injured member of 107 did not intervene when the previous MP also advertised the Rules of Procedure. I also suggest that you turn off the microphone immediately for every MP when he starts bidding whether it's a lady or a lady. It happens very often here in the National Assembly. My dignity has been hurt by it, not getting into the fact that I'm going to say whether I'm a lady or a lady, it just doesn't work. All ladies are ladies, named after their last name. If a previous colleague doesn't know that, I understand that he's involved in pedagogical work, and I'm glad that the time has come for him to find out, but I ask you that in the future, when someone starts to bid by imputing the marital status of our MPs, turn off the microphone immediately, because neither we MPs of men, we don't refer to whether they are a gentleman or a lady. I'm also asking you to treat everyone equally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22564	Thank you, colleague Tepic. I don't believe it, and I don't want to believe that Mr. Jokic had any intention of insulting you. I can only ask you if you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22565	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From this great story of great knowledge, expertise, essential contribution to quality, etc. As far as I can see, the proposal refers to some language interventions, i.e. discussions on whether there is a word of non-Serb origin, whether it is used Serbian, etc. Everything in that style. Then, in the explanation of the promoters themselves, we have examples of the top quality of that expertise, of that knowledge, right in the language domain. Like the expressions of a relationship, inadequate and fixed, I think it's more than clear what this is about, how important it is and how professional it is, and how subdued it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22566	Thank you. (Marinika Tepic: Replica. You have no basis for replication. You have three minutes left from the parliamentary group. (Marinika Tepic: I was misread. No, you have no basis for replication. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Maja Vidinović, Tomislav Žigmanom, Vesna Marjanović and Natasa Vukkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Šulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Marija Jevdzic, Jelena Vujic Obradovic, Petar Petrovic, Vojislav Vujic and Djorđe Kosanic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22567	Thank you, Chairman. By establishing a national academy for professional training of civil servants, of course it requires both amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants. Article 2 of this Law on civil servants defines programmes to be implemented in the training process of civil servants, including the training programme of managers. When the law on the establishment of a national academy was most often commented in the public, attention was paid to the fact that this professional, or professional training would include executives, or officials such as, ministers, state secretaries, assistant ministers, mayors, municipal presidents, members of city councils, and should also be underlined, directors of public enterprises at all levels. However, you are here in article 97v. provided and specified that only civil servants will be included in this professional training or training. The Law on Civil Servants clearly provides a definition of who the civil servants are and clearly in one part of the position, that I do not state them all here, states that they are neither MPs nor officials nor members of the Government. That's why we in the DSS have responded here, it's very important that these professional trainings include and selected, appointed and appointed persons. These are government officials at all levels, from local to republican, because we are witnessing that very often at the head of the municipalities, at the head of the city, at the head of the public enterprise, I will not talk about the ministries, I do not have that information, and I do not have that insight, we have people who are unprofessional, they have neither the education nor the skills to run these systems. That's why it's important, and you've explained that they'll be covered, to make it clear that this training should include these officials.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22568	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has a folk MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22569	Thank you, Your Honor. Now I've been listening to my colleague and the explanation of this amendment she's submitted, so I have to say that she's kind of on her own and I've answered why this amendment can't be accepted. Therefore, since the addition of a position relating to the elected, appointed and appointed persons is required, this amendment is unacceptable because it is the Law on civil servants who do not regulate the position of persons who are officials, but civil servants. Also, the amendment applies here to the republic, the autonomous province and local self-government, which is regulated by another law, the Law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. So, although they wanted something with this amendment, they should not have submitted this amendment to this bill. So I suggest that the amendment not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22570	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22571	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, therefore, we have submitted two amendments to this article. One is, I would say, a fundamental character, a program of perfecting civil servants, and the other is a language character. I think it was supposed to react. We did it because I really think the word "coach" should be replaced by a word coach, with an understanding of the influence of other languages in Serbian. Dominantly, Anglicisms, Turkishs have become, to this extent, Serbian words, under the assumption that they are already in some state documents, laws. But the word "couch" is not that word. There is a solid Serbian word – coach, and we suggest that this word be replaced by the word coach, both in previous law and in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22572	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. National MP Miroslav Aleksic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MP Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22573	Let's remind the public that today we are talking about amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the Law on civil servants, that this was preceded by the debate, also about amendments, about the national public administration academy that you intend to introduce. In the opinion of us Serbian radicals, absolutely unnecessary. We talked about it, of course, both in the principle debate and in the amendments. Now, look, in this Article 3, whose erasure we are proposing, you are talking about professional training, training of trainees who will work some mentors and say – as a rule they will be civil servants and employees who have significant experience. What does a significant experience mean? Are the years of work experience and significant experience? No, often they are not, because they are employed by people who do not meet the conditions at the time of employment themselves, or formally. These are people with a strange way of getting diplomas and they get a significant experience in some number of years. It's simply unacceptable that there are such indefinite terms in the law. The law must be precise, that anyone who applies it can do it without considering possible abuse. You're still saying that this mentor has this significant experience in doing relevant jobs. What are the relevant jobs? I guess every job is relevant to what needs to be done. How would you judge who your mentors are? Here, the whole of Serbia is laughing at the Belgrade City, which would again be the government in Belgrade and this was done by local self-government officials, so they wrote, I'm talking about those boards on the bus stations in the city transport, so Kosutnjak writes with Latin and Cyrillic, but Cyrillic says "Kosutnjak", then Svetosavska street writes "Sveto-Savska", then the street of Danila Kiša, in the words of Kiša, the letter "and" latinically, otherwise Cyrillic, and then "Shumadiski trg", etc. So this is a picture of this party employment that we're up against. So we're not generally against hiring people who are members of political parties, on the contrary, you're not allowed to do that at all, but this is a picture of what you've been saying for years, bought diplomas, getting diplomas under strange circumstances, donated, bought, obtained in one way or another. This is embarrassing and embarrassing. This speaks of how much you don't need any academy, you need, gentlemen of power, a little morality and a little measure in hiring those who provide you with capillaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22574	According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22575	Thank you. I certainly always agree with the reasoning that we have received in the government's opinion, when it is so concisely drawn up, rather than purely on the subject of this reasoning of the promoters we have just heard. Perhaps you should be careful in the conclusions, you should put an accent on whether or not there are some things that are, I fully believe that it is all, as it is now said, and found so, and taken, that there are no counterfeits here, but that perhaps it is a matter of urgency that these things that have been done, are faster substitutes for the right ones, because, based on some experience that I have, it seems quite certain that these things were created, and so wrongly written, somewhere around the time that Dragan Gilas led Belgrade, and according to the administrative and supervisory committees in the City of Belgrade, he set up all of the personnel of a prominent right-wing, tough and opposition party, because they needed him for some work. So it's very possible that this problem of ignorance and inexperience was created at the time, and now it needs to be regulated and remedied when we've already seen and photographed it. Yes, I agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22576	The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22577	This is the work of Goran Vesic, who was otherwise Gilas' associate, and now he is a man of the highest confidence of Alexander Vukic. These are really the freshest data. Whoever was on the boards of directors of Dragan Djilas, or the City Administration of Belgrade, city public enterprises, has the least right to speak to someone to whom Mayor Goran Vesic, who is Minister Goran Knezevic, is, and I don't know how many more to list. More than half of your most prominent experts, gentlemen of government, are representatives of this very "yellow company", as you call them, and it is a "yellow company". So if you thought you were so funny, you didn't do anything. Yes, the representatives of the Serbian Radical Party were members of the boards of directors and we have no problem talking about it. We have always represented the position that at a local level we can co-operate with everyone, with those for whom our local committees conclude, and that is why we are in a coalition with many municipalities with the Serbian Progressive Party. So, simply, our local committees make a decision, assess what these people are like in these other parties with which they could go into the coalition and that's how it works. We think it's democratic and there's no need to hide behind any decisions. We Serbian radicals have always been absolutely open to the public and to everyone who cares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22578	Thank you, colleague. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22579	Thank you. Since I see that we're partly in agreement, but we don't understand each other until the very end. Of course, I didn't mention a case I mentioned for both SNS, not because of the capable people who are in the SNS, but because of these boards of directors and the participation in these boards of directors and supervisors at tycoon Dragan Gilas by those who have confirmed it right now. So, I was thinking about that case. I'm saying, I appreciate that somehow at that very time, there were these problems that we were talking about earlier. Now, the fact that a particular party is defined as a coalition to a local one based on what it's estimated to be good, there's nothing controversial about it, it's the right of everyone and I'm not getting into it. I thank you for your kind confirmation that in this context, Dragan Gilas was good and that working with him was good, probably in the same way as the "yellow regime" in the AP Vojvodina, for the same reason. I don't go into those motives, I'm just saying that you need to be careful, so take care when the problems could arise and how much of whose participation is personal or indirect, but participation in those problems that you'd like to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22580	My colleague Radeta, do you think you've been misread? I'll give you two extra minutes, but please don't cause any further replicas, so we can continue our work afterwards. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22581	I did not challenge the replica for the first time and, indeed, this campaign push for Belgrade in this way is inappropriate, we completely agree. We run an open campaign. We tell the Belgradeers, we go door to door and say -- we legalize Belgrade, we do what no one has done in 20 years, we do what the advances lie about for five years that they will do, and these before them are another 15 years. That's how we run the campaign, not in this way some sort of bribery. But there's something else here. It's obvious that some people identify power with one man. These are the ones who think Vucic and the president of the state and prime minister and mayor, director of the public enterprise, president of the home council, etc. They think Dragan Gilas was what they say we were in the power of Dragan Gilas. No, that's when Dragan Gilas was mayor, and that's nothing to argue about. Just like Sinisha's Little Mayor now. However, Vukic said he would resign, but he still did not let him sign. So that's the wrong idea of politics, and we want to, that's why I'm intervention at all, otherwise I wouldn't be touched by what my colleague said before, but I just need the public to know who's running politics in this country at all. We, Serbian radicals, run an open, clear, never hidden anything. Everything we've done, we've always revealed, always the citizens know why we're doing it. As the citizens rewarded, we respected the will of whatever, as we will respect the citizens' will after the Belgrade elections, which will surely understand that only we, the Serbian radicals, in Belgrade are leading a pure Belgrade policy in the interests of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22582	Thank you. Comrade Orlic, you have a basis for replication, but a request to you, too, so that we can go back to the agenda afterwards. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22583	Of course, Mr. Chairman, I just wanted to perform constructively, as I always do. So, to commend both openness and clear politics, that's all great things. So, and that open appearance with Dragan Gilas on boards and boards, and not hiding it, although it would be inappropriate to try to hide at all, because everyone knows it. But that's good and I commend it on my part. I also commend the observation that Dragan Gilas was not the only one involved in what was happening, unfortunately, I must say, was happening with Belgrade until the moment he was sent into a shameful history, completely deserved. Just the other day, we reminded the “yellow company, ” that they themselves had made the assessment that they were equally involved in it. So, it's not only the credit of Dragan Gilas. In this, those who sat on these boards of directors and supervisors sat together with the "yellow company" and Dragan Gilas. Now, that's how specific the weight was, as it was at any point, and that's familiar. In that sense, don't let anyone get mad at us for mentioning Dragan Gilas, you know who ran that circuit. But don't even fool yourself by an organization where the elemental thing of any form is the opinion of a man, that there's no story at all about whether or not we imagine that something is organized based on someone's personal opinion, it has nothing to do with seriousness. If someone else said that, so I could get into any debate, but those who function exclusively by the one man's fan-club system, I don't think they should really open that topic. As far as the results are concerned, we will, of course, compare them, as in this campaign for Belgrade, the good things achieved by the city's majority of SNS, all the good results and all the successes will be compared to the disaster left by Dragan Gilas, but all those who sat with him together on these boards and boards of directors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22584	Thank you. Here you go, but I'm really asking you to get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22585	I really don't think there's gonna be any further reason for the replica. I just want to say, if these are the only objections to the Serbian Radical Party, and if this is the only way you're going to run a campaign against us in the next Belgrade elections, then, gentlemen, go ahead, but take care of Vesic, Mali, the rest of the team, the rest of the crowd that destroyed, robbed, continued what Gilas was doing, which is not controversial. There's no question that Gilas did the same thing, but you haven't changed anything compared to what Gilas was doing. So, if you think you can connect the Serbian Radical Party to Dragan Gilas, to the Democratic Party or already some form, I don't even know where Dragan Gilas is now, then you really are the wonderrs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22586	Comrade Orlic, you may also conclude through the replica and return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22587	Because I especially respect you, Mr. Chairman, this will probably be the shortest replica today. What anyone continued is seen enough in the fact that this Dragan Gilas, with those people who sat with him together in these boards of directors and supervisors, left a billion-euro debt to Belgrade. Those who have been delegated by the Serbian Progressive Party to take care of Belgrade have halved the debt. So much for whether something continued or turned in the right direction. There are similar examples of them, and we'll talk about them for a long and long time when we deal with Belgrade in more detail, but I want to do this constructively again and thank you for one more confirmation, for the confirmation we just heard that what Gilas left was a disaster. Just so he doesn't forget all about who's been putting this disaster together with him through these boards of directors and boards. No more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22588	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22589	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 13, speaks of mentors, and mentors serve as direct transfer of knowledge. And in public officials, I'll give you an example, you had a public servant in the New Sad, a circuit officer, a civil servant, call whatever you want, which millions of dinars are funded by some kind of joke and banatical joke. The mentor was Nenad Canak, with whom I was not in any relationship, and from that mentor there was something that the official could learn. At least federalization and confederalization, autonomy, etc. Then it comes to what they call flying over. Change your mentor and the government must prevent mentors from changing like that. Then suddenly the mentor becomes the winemaker, the winemaker. What can he convey directly from knowledge? That faithful stranger changed her public service, came to the winemaker, my colleague's vineyard, there she could learn to spray vineyards, cutting, etc., extrasoul funds, etc. He doesn't know that, though. There she can learn how to fool the state by 525, and she quickly learned.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22590	Let's just go back to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22591	The second mentor... According to the amendment, he's a mentor. Second mentor – Saša Janković. And the clerk learns quickly, Mr. Krassic. He's a quick learner. Look at the wonders, it's the faithful stranger's flight costs, suddenly buying an apartment behind the circuit executive council of 100 squares, worth 150,000-200. 1,000 euros. It must be prevented that our civil servants are changing their mentors so easily and that it is so expensive that in the end, however, it must be paid by the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22592	On Article 3rd, the MP is Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22593	In Article 3, which is amended in Article 105, we ask that words be deleted – and employees, in a sentence that says – mentors in the program of professional training of trainees in state authorities are, as a rule, civil servants and employees. I would like the minister to make a clear explanation of the difference between civil servants in the state administration and employees in the state administration. That would be very interesting, not just to me, but to the general public. So another example is that the law was written, copied from a language that wasn't clear enough for someone who was cheating, so we have different superfluous words, pointless words, I won't mention it anymore. Let's say, I asked the Minister, in the National Academy Act, to tell me the difference between equipment and funds, because we asked to delete the word "funds," so I didn't get an answer either. If the minister doesn't know, let someone who knows, but I think it would be important that we at least have spelling and grammatically correct laws, because it would be the first step to see that this government has made little progress. Besides, it's very interesting about mentoring. Is it predicted that there is a mentor for selecting songs and belly dances when a foreign statesman arrives? When the party president, the prime minister, has his own show, does he have a mentor for it or not? Is the mentor just for the vocal part or also for this toy part, and if there's some part that's done, and we don't see it hidden behind the eyes of the public, and it works the night we have some candidate, or some foreign statesman in our visit. I wish we had that information, because 500 years under the Turks is no small thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22594	Time, Mr. Zivkovic. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Zdravko Stankovic and Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were submitted to the same text by MPs together Vjerica Rade, Aleksandra Belačić and Zoran Krasic and zidejnika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22595	Article 4 is replaced by the following: The draft law shall intervene on Article 106a of the basic text of this law, and what is characteristic of this proposed amendment – that the unspecified provision of Article 106a is made even more reasonable with this supplement. Just to remind you, this refers to the possibility of conclusion of a non-refundable professional training contract for professional training, i.e. the acquisition of work experience and conditions for the submission of a national expert examination. With this Article 4, this complicated situation seems even more complicated because of this National Academy, and by installing these new views, practically, the essence and core of the idea to be present in Article 106 is lost. And that's preparation for the state's expert exam. The state expert exam is prescribed by the government of the Republic of Serbia and there is no place for the National Academy. There's no room at all. Now we're going back to what we told you a few days ago. It's the maximum in education that can be implemented in a state body. That's the maximum. All this other stuff, workshops, playgrounds, later that you're going through that agency of yours, or the academy, is something plus. It also benefits you to launder money from abroad, because you need to transform the state administration in the Republic of Serbia so it can be like a spit-out administration that exists in Brussels. Well, that's why we're putting up with these amendments. We don't want you to imitate Brussels. None of the EU members are satisfied with the Brussels administration. No one, remember. She went rogue, she rose above all EU institutions. Then we will have the situation that the Brussels administration with the Serbian administration is making a hat, and neither the Parliament nor the Government nor the ministers are wondering if it is really necessary and whether it should look that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22596	Thank you, Mr. Krasici. The word is proposed by the amendment, National MP Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22597	Thank you, Chairman. And we believe that this article should be deleted, i.e. to remain an existing solution in the still valid Civil Service Act. This is another, for who knows which time, proof that you've mixed up grandmothers and frogs, or the Law on the National Academy of Public Administration in an attempt, and the amendments to the Law on Civil Service. Minister, may I have your attention, please? Here, you are looking for the first position of this member that you are proposing says – The National Academy provides professional support for unique programme records and coordination of professional training in state authorities and so on. All it took was for the National Academy to stand in the Law on the National Academy, and you were conspiring in this law, that is, to amend the Law on Civil Servants. I don't know who set you up. I thought that you were mostly silent in this debate because somehow by logic things should be these laws and new laws and amendments, let me say, the child of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, who was formerly the elder of the body that you are now taking care of, that is, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. However, a more detailed and detailed insight into the reading, which every citizen can do on the website of our National Assembly, it is clear that even the one who signed this law does not stand behind it or pretend that he does not know what it is, or really does not know, and I'm afraid this is different. Please engage in the debate and answer at least one question in the second hour of work, and a series of questions have been asked since this morning. And you stayed in debt and colleagues to Zivkovic's explanation, you remained in my debt when there were still situations where the current budget reserve allocated additional funds to increase earnings for new jobs, which you also did not respond to. Please explain to me how all the matter of the National Academy has been inserted into this law, where it doesn't belong, except for the general principles. Absolutely, there's no reason for you to make mixes like this, like this buildup or this kind of monster of the law, without any need, and you're just making a mistake in people who are going to be responsible for applying this act tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22598	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22599	Ladies and gentlemen of the 4th is about training, professional support, etc. With all the professional support, with the mixing of grandmothers and frogs, better to mix perhaps grandmothers and frogs, than parties and mentors, I didn't understand what the word "tired" means? Dud is a tree that gives birth to duvets, and the mussels are roasted with a brandy called "dumbs", which looks like its impact boss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22600	I thank my colleague Rističević. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No). The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Zdravko Stankovic and Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No). National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dejan Šulkic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No). The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22601	This basic member of the 158th law, which has been amended nine times, Mr. Ruzic and we Serbian radicals, consider it unnecessary, especially because education of any human resources management service within the government, means that these personnel who, in such a way and with such conditions, change that you have given us, are preparing to do a responsible civil service work will not bear fruit. You have not given us explanations, and you can now, after this observation, and especially because of the fact that you have strictly deleted it in this article, that you are giving up education by Brussels and the EU, and that you are thus erasing it in this article, and that you are introducing on the other hand professional assistance to the authorities of the state administration and the government services, in the light of the provisions of this law. Now imagine, you're already going to apply for a formal job with a certain qualification, to start with not all the diplomas purchased that Mrs. Radeta was talking about, but that there are people with high grades who finished state and other colleges on a regular basis. You tell them in this law that they will have their mentor to interpret in a certain way how they will apply this law. On the other hand, by introducing this, this is amazing and explain to us what it means, that this staff management service of the Government of the Republic of Serbia will deal with individual potentials for the development and management of the career of civil servants. Just explain, Mr. Ruzic, that this will be a service for the people of the Republic of Serbia, to deal with the potential of every civil servant, from the moment he started his employment relationship and that traineeship, to that career that you're talking about. Total nonsense and therefore you need to withdraw this bill, that is, to come once, if you have already taken this portfolio into the National Assembly, with a serious law on civil servants that will apply in the next period and will not change from opportunity to opportunity.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22602	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22603	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope we all understand that my amendment is similar to the government's solution, the seriousness of how effective public servants should be, because through the state and public servants, we can pull the economy forward, realize all these investments and plans that the government has, to employ everything that was earlier and the previous regimes fired.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22604	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22605	Thank you. I will try briefly to convince the contents of this amendment. We also consider this amendment to try to do, that the National Academy of Public Administration should, in particular, be assisted by professional people, professionals and staff management who have done this job so far, because from now on, it is accompanied, debated and who knows the way, repeated on my part, and I will say it again. Mr. Minister, you really need the help of professionals, no offense at all, we all need the additional knowledge and the members of the government and the Prime Minister who, above all, if you don't know how to sign additionally without the insight and knowledge of what he's signing, illiterate bill proposals and amendments to the law. So, people who have been doing this job for years and staff management expertise, which you are now dissipating from this job and taking on a large part of their jurisdiction, bringing down one record organisation of work, I think needs to be further preserved, and that it is up to them to prepare future employees at the National Public Administration Academy, not to give up professionals from staff management services so easily, and that those in a future organisation that should politically serve for further training, as I said, employees in the public administration, how to move faster, better, stronger, by the mythins of SNS in the working time, and that the municipal and city administrations have been running empty since midday, when it happens. So, to continue to rely on professionals from the staff management service and, yes, how much mind and reason are there for future people who are members of this National Academy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22606	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22607	Well, even here, the basis doesn't have to be too important, if the essence of the proposal is to have something written enough. I just heard it in an explanation. I must suggest, however, not to accept the amendment, for those reasons concerning literacy, because here is the suggestion that something, the Academy of Public Administration, is being written by the promoter. So the literacy here is obviously at an envious level, when we're talking about it, that knowledge and experience and all kinds of expertise. If the essence of someone's concerns is a matter of staff, I must say this opportunity to really regret that the personnel potential of the failed DOS candidate Jankovic, meanwhile, has stepped down, being abandoned by all his associates, which will likely remain in the Movement alone soon. If it means a good extra space for someone to recommend the same for co-operation, it's all right and it's all legitimate, but it won't go better in that and that kind of society than it was the last and the last. And that should be kept in mind, besides this missing literacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22608	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's Parliament of Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22609	You have once again proved that you do not read the amendments, nor that you know what is in the laws that you are trying to change, because you would otherwise know what our amendment intervention means, and especially not to read what your job is, at least in this session, and that is what your Prime Minister suggests, for which your colleagues do not even know what it is called, so they call it Brbalić still. So, regardless of the literal mistakes that you can mock, if your only argument is that you will try politically to disabling to my address something that has nothing to do with this amendment and that it is your knowledge of laws and amendments – it is an honor to you. You have no idea what you're talking about, you have no idea what this law is talking about, you don't know what the content of the amendment is, you don't know why they're being explained. If you are calling for a serious debate, then let's do it that way, not to fly on some topics that are important to you alone, not this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22610	My colleague Tepic, there is no reason to address your colleague Orlic in such a way directly. He wasn't talking to you, he was talking, as far as I could tell, about Mr. Jankovic. Do you want the amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22611	Although this was a straight line, but whatever you say, I'm not slow. On the subject of unreading – I think I just read a little bit about what the amendment is. Here, one more time. Article 5, I see a word here – after public administration, stuck, "supervises". So, if we're talking about literacy and someone has a grudge about it, how is it possible that this proposal is made? How is it possible that he doesn't understand and see something controversial about me reading it out loud here? And then there's the comment - I didn't read it. I did, right now, and a little bit of an hour and now again. As for the estate and the lack of a clue, my God, I believe that I can have or have no idea, depending on what I find more appropriate at the given moment. The problem is, some others don't have any choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22612	The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav LJubenović, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. The word has been made by MP Tomislav LJubenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22613	Thank you. Serbian Radical Party MP group tabled an amendment to Article 6. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, which is proposed to supplement Article 161 of the Basic Law with Article 4, which would read: “The Staff Management Office may process the data entered in the central personnel records for the purpose of carrying out operations under its jurisdiction. ” The promoter gives this solution authority to this service that, in addition to data collection, it can process the data recorded in the record. We have proposed by our amendment that article 6 be deleted. The reason for the submission of this amendment is identical to the reasons for the submission of all other amendments to this bill, which we have proposed to delete each member of the law individually. The position of the SRS is that these changes and additions should not be adopted, but a new and comprehensive law should be passed. Since 2005, when the basic law was passed, to this day, frequent amendments to the law have been made and it is much better to pass a new law, but to re-amend and supplement the existing law. Otherwise, the legislator changes the law by an urgent procedure, due to the adjustment of the Law on the National Academy, which is also on the agenda of this session. I suggest you listen to what Dr Vojislav Seselj told you in the debate in principle, to take seriously the suggestions of the Serbian Radical Party, because I will repeat what Dr Vojislav Seselj said, that training and training is not without reading the books. All criticisms of Serbian Radical Party MP groups are well-intentioned, constructive criticisms. It is not good that the representatives of the authorities do not want to accept it, so they often find themselves in a position to put some law back on the agenda very quickly to be amended again. It is certain that such a fate awaits this law, unless you accept our suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22614	Thank you, colleague Ljubenović. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22615	Ladies and gentlemen, within the meaning of this law, it will be necessary to pass a sublegal act, which should take effect within six months, and I believe it will be done faster and faster, in order for the law to be enforceable as soon as possible and for this country to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22616	I thank my colleague Rističević. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22617	Thank you, Chairman. The proposed Article 6 should read – The Staff Management Office may process the data entered in the central personnel records for the purpose of carrying out operations under its jurisdiction. This amendment strengthens the protection of personal data, of course, in accordance with Article 42. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and we propose that this provision is – the Staff Management Office can process data recorded in central personnel records for the purpose of carrying out operations under its jurisdiction and add a very important part – mandatory to inform a civil servant whose data is processed on the content of the processing concerned, as well as on the needs, on the basis of which the data is processed on that civil servant. In fact, in the previous debate, I also drew attention to the fact that there is a really great risk of the abuse of personality data, which is, of course, against the constitutional and against the law. After all, I am sure that you, Minister Ruzic, do not want this to happen, but I am also sure that even better than I know that the situation on the ground is very often said exactly the opposite, namely that official records, especially of government employees, are very often or almost daily abused by the political commissioners of the Serbian Progressive Party and the clicks around this party, by blackmailing these employees, by threatening to keep their jobs, which is absolutely unacceptable, and you have millions of people who are employed in the state administration in this country or working for them, who at any time can prove to you what I'm talking about. Please consider this amendment and protect our government employees. (Vladimir Orlic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22618	Thank you, colleague Tepic. You have grounds for replication, Mr. Orlic, mentioning the Serbian Progressive Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22619	It's an interesting thing to do with blackmailing people. We mentioned today a glorious past era and a story about how someone was passing by if he wanted any of his rights to be exercised, including labour law, and he depended on the will of those today who are terribly concerned about the rights of people and their use or abuse of their data on blackmail, etc. It would be interesting that one day someone would make an analysis of the precise and clear, just at the time of those who were now concerned about this issue, how many people had to sign a party accession to which they belonged, or how many people were being blackmailed by losing their jobs, how many people were left without a job, how many people, even though they were not directly bound by a job, but they were, for example, engaged in, say, procurement for institutions had an absolute restraining order of anything, just because they knew they weren't their members, that they weren't their supporters, just because they were known to support someone else, someone they politically disagreed with, who they never saw as political competitors or opponents in any civilized sense of those words, but always as hateful enemies. They are now asking themselves over the Serbian Progressive Party, and today at this session we are talking about a sector in which the Serbian Progressive Party, this terrible majority, stopped uncontrollable employment, those who have drawn out every resource to calm their needs, and where they had an interest, people blackmailed, blackmailed them life, existentially blackmailed them, today they ask us who stopped them and contained them. Is there anything there? That's what I'm done with, Mr. Chairman. That's what we've already named here. That's a tough hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22620	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Replica? You caused the replica, and in the answer you received, you were not mentioned for a moment. To me, it's a clear goal that you want to achieve, but we continue to work. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Zdravko Stankovic and Goran Bogdanovic. The government and the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by Bozidar Delic, Verica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Krassic, would you like a word? (No) I thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22621	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a saying - nowhere does people feel smaller than in front of a counter and a bigger one behind the counter. The point of all these laws and this member is to get in the way of such behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22622	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22623	Thank you very much. This is about the deadline for determining the sublegal acts that you need to follow this law, of course, as well as each other, and it is given in the draft law within six months, which is one too long. On the other hand, it can cause a lot of problems. We are convinced that in the government of Serbia, perhaps not exactly in the room where ministers are sitting, but that there are enough smart, written people around them and we are confident that this can be done in 60 days, and that is what it says in our amendment, and that means that the deadline for sublegal acts from six months to two months. This would also be very important because this would be clear parameters for creating next year's budget, because these sublegal acts themselves produce certain spending, revenue probably not, but some spending certainly and then it would be good for those who create next year's budget to know what new costs will be related to the adoption of sublegal acts that are related to this law. I repeat, surely there were several illiterate people in every government, somewhere completely illiterate, somewhere malicious, somewhere well-intentioned, but on the wrong side. It's all possible, but I'm relying on unmented and unsuspecting civil servants. That's the third one that works in the administration. I said, one third doesn't do anything, one third better not to do anything and one third does. Well, give this third one that works, and it's good to do something, that sublegal acts from this area, as well as other laws, arrange and fix within two months. That's quite enough. Much more complicated processes and laws were governed by sublaws in a much shorter time. If you need any professional help, please feel free to contact me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22624	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22625	Dearlywed, we also suggested that the deadline for the adoption of sublaws from six months to three months should be done simply for the reason that the law would not apply in those months as long as the sublaw was passed, and that the law would be applied as soon as possible we proposed a shorter period.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22626	Thank you. National MPs Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22627	This member belongs to the so-called the transitional and final provisions of the draft law. Mr. Milicevic, here, I'll start reading. He says: “The regulations will continue until the day of entry into force of this law. ” So the regulations continue. I don't know how this could have gone through the Legislative Secretariat and how it could have gone on our Committee, which takes care of the legal and technical aspects of the bill's proposal and those of our unique criteria methodologically for writing regulations that come into the agenda of the National Assembly, but now we realize that the regulations continue. It's not an emphasis on regulations, is it? It's an emphasis that the authorities that need to act in an interregne are applying something? Obviously, you have a group of people who are turning what is jargon into binding norms. You're somewhat right, norms should communicate with everyday life, but it's not a matter of terms, it's a matter of logic. Logic here is obviously not a good thing. However, this amendment is not the only reason we have put up with it. We filed because we disagree with the idea of forming a National Academy of Public Administration, which we've told quite a bit about and listed the main reasons, but I'm asking you to just remember the main thing. There will be nothing from the EU, there will be nothing from that road, and then these donations and these loans will be denied, and then everything falls on the burden of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22628	Thank you, colleague Krasic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22629	Ladies and gentlemen, article 8, says: “The regulations to bring from day... It will apply’, etc.... "if they are not contrary to the provisions of this law." I think it's okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22630	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 9th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Ružica Nikolic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic and together Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic were submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from the Verse of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22631	Here, we have come to the transitional and final provisions of the Amendment Bill and the Supplements of the Civil Service Act, and it seems we have failed to convince the Minister to accept some of our amendments, and it would be good if he did. We Serbian radicals have suggested that all provisions be deleted, all members of this law because we think there is no point in making a partial amendment for the ninth time in a few years. If a law needs to be changed nine times, then I guess that's enough reason for someone to think of sitting down to write a whole law, which would be really comprehensive, but also not that, what you're predicting in article 9 and in all these transitional and final provisions is not a good solution for you. In Article 7, you said that sublegal acts should wait six months, and then 90 days after that, the alignment of sublegal acts with the provisions of this law, and then you say that the professional training of civil servants for 2017 will be carried out on the basis of the professional training programme that has been adopted for this year in accordance with the earlier regulations. You should have at least written that it would continue. What are you doing in three months? What kind of program is that? Who are you even going to perfect in any way if you predicted that these mentors and others would do so at this academy? You didn't answer the question of who these people are, what profile is that, a professional profile, because there's no training in these laws? We are convinced that it will be done by your party staff who themselves do not know the job, who themselves have suspicious diplomas, who are pushing themselves into local self-governments, so whoever comes first in the morning is waiting for the chair, and who is a little late to sit down and that is the fact in the state of Serbia, and that is a big problem. So it's not a big number of employees. In many places the officers are missing, we talked about it, especially when it comes to inspections. In order for it to work more efficiently, there must be more inspectors in all inspection services, but you don't take care of it. The Belgrade elections are coming. You need capillaries. Now all these people are going to be busy for a certain time, so whoever brings a picture of the ballot will get another three months at a certain time, and it's undeterminedly difficult to win, because then some other elections, etc., and this is a public secret. This must be fully spoken out and the citizens of Serbia, in this case the citizens of Belgrade, who are likely to be first in the polls, should know that these are big frauds and that they are free to take pictures of their ballot where they will round up their list, but then round up everyone else, except for one they really want to vote for and it will be their valid ballot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22632	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22633	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know that this government has done a lot on civil servants, in public services, and I think this whole law has this intensification to make this service as serious as possible. We are the ones who banned party employment, and it is in no way some MPs understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22634	Thank you, colleague Rističević. You have received the resignations of MPs Ivan Karic, Dr Branislav Blazic and Marko Gavrilovic as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and reports from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandated questions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in view of the examination of these paragraphs, which has determined that the resignation of the resignations has resulted in the case of Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of MPs and suggests that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the mandate of these MPs. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time on which the MPs Ivan Karic, Dr Branislav Blažić and Marko Gavrilovic were elected on the day of their resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. We're going back to work. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic and together by Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraja, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22635	It's a member that refers to transitional and final provisions, and here, for the selection and accreditation of lecturers. So there's a selection to be done. And a public call is being made, that's the first attitude. So the National Academy becomes a selection office. The third attitude is very important, where those who have been selected so far and who hold lectures in 2017 continue to give lectures as selectives. There were selected May of this year, Mr Ruzic, and the CRTA and the European Movement in Serbia, so you are practically the Ministry, the National Academy of the Future, a flow water heater for money from the EU. Since they can't give directly to NGOs, then they, as something, teach civil servants according to programs, and how do you accredit them? Well, here you have that first call in May, so 15 of them came through, so these two wrote their objections, and they called out from the EU, so they said, you have to put these two there, how do we pay them for what they did here. This is the whole point of these amendments to the Law on State Officials and the Law on the National Academy – how to finance NGOs, which outside the state administration, learn, or should learn how to apply regulations. What regulations, the Republic of Serbia or EU regulations? There, that's the story. It'll be holding water until the masters leave. As long as there are a little money from the EU, you have six EU contracts to transform the state administration in the Republic of Serbia, how the public sector can adapt to the EU. It'll be something. When it cracks, they'll all be fired by the state administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22636	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word is submitted by the amendment MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22637	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, honored guests, I once again studied this law with great care, while we discussed these amendments and came to the next conclusion. No one really managed to save one of him, and so did these amendments and this amendment to article 10, to delete, will succeed in saving the legislator from his hasty and poor decisions. So this law, probably, the ruling majority is indeed the majority, will be adopted and we will have a problem that we didn't have to have. One thing's for sure, everything can be bought. You can, see, buy diplomas, buy grades, buy everything. But one thing you can't buy, I'm ancient enough to say it, experience can't be bought. So, you make those decisions in a hurry, those wheels that train civil servants, that's something that's completely unnecessary. As far as I know, education has its own Ministry and we've been discussing it very recently. This law, once again, I will say why we have predicted the changes of these last few members to be deleted, is one bad law, a law that has changed eight to nine times since 2005 and we will again have one law that is not suitable for those needs that we have in the state administration. Once again, Minister, I ask you to think about this law and it is not too late for some things to change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22638	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 10th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22639	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am simply touched by the previous discussion. This is about selection, etc., also mentioned bikes and coaches etc. I'd very much like to support the previous one, but I think this amendment of mine and the member who prescribed the government is far, far better. Namely, what's this about? The people who object have come to the list of Life Wheels, the mind maps coach. The holder of the list was an electrician who represented himself as an economist, better known as a bankruptcy manager, and here he performed with the choir "they've never had enough"...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22640	Mr. Risticevic, let's get back to the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22641	Well, I'm talking about selection. So they didn't make that coach selection themselves, so they had that person or that person in one person that I already listed for the coach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22642	Thank you. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gorica Gajic, Dejan Šulkic and Milan Lapčević submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković and Tatjana Macura. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22643	Thank you. Here is another amendment which consistently, in the previous National Academy Law proposal and in this Law on Civil Service Officers, in the section in which their professional training is discussed, requires that the terms ‘couch’ and ‘couching’ be deleted consistently. On three occasions so far, I have asked the legislator to explain the reasons why we felt that an alternative method of popular psychology should be singled out in relation to all the other methods of popular psychology and especially in relation to official methods that produce similar results and put them, their professional terms, which even hornatically sound in our language and represent aliens, install them in two laws, now already. I lost my answer. Once again, I ask the legislator, who doesn't listen to what I'm saying at the moment, but rather deals with his associates, so perhaps he doesn't even know that the MP is asking him a question at all, to explain to the Serbian citizens why we are already in two laws installing chariots and couchings, and why is this method of popular psychology given priority over all other alternative methods, especially in relation to official methods of psychotherapy that produce the same results? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22644	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22645	Thank you, Chairman. I would support the amendment of my colleagues that says that this amendment should also be deleted for the simple reason that it is obviously not correct for the amendments to the opposition not even, Mr. Minister, to be commented on by you. I retired in peace to read once more the amendments and additions to the bill. What my colleague Marinika Tepic and my colleagues are MPs and MPs from the DS, I think they essentially wanted to contribute to a bad proposal for amendments and supplements, and I think it is really necessary that you join this discussion and save your face and start at the last moments to adopt amendments to the opposition. Is the cart, is it a coach, whether, as it was, it braked from the Hungarian village in the 15th century, repeat that story once again, we were having a little debate, so we still haven't been made clear, because of all this many evil languages, not us, but the malicious ones say it's the coach academy, not the academy that will take care of the more professional work of civil servants, and we know how the civil servants in Serbia behave, especially those set up by SNS party employment, and after the ban on public sector employment. So it's very important that you get involved in the debate and try to save face, yours as minister, us as representatives of the people and start adopting amendments to the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22646	Thank you, colleague Bozovic. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22647	Thirty-eight thousand less employees in the sector that someone cares about after, since it was a matter of whether after the ban, 38,000 and we said not once, but more times. If someone is interested in the general public sector, and we have said, it is not disputed to repeat, to establish, 80,000 fewer employees in the sector in total after they have entered into force and the measures that a terrible SNS, some of which seem to have adopted today, has implemented. Now one logical question -- if the SNS is doing what you're accusing her of, then where are these people, how is the total numbers smaller, how is that possible, whose SNS interest is doing if you accuse her of helping herself, and she looks at herself, from your angle, sabotaging? To be serious, the SNS knows what the state is, the SNS when it tells what its goals are, it deals with them seriously. The other thing is that some people are unable to separate, separate and accept, which they are unable to accept is that people don't see things the same way they look, that when someone wants to deal with the state, they can really do it, they can't pretend there's no phrases, there's no fakes, like they did in their time, that someone really wants to cut the debt and they're able to reduce it, that someone really wants to fight unemployment and manages to get results. All that was for them was just empty and empty words today, it's real. Whoever can't figure it out, accept it, it's his business, just let the SNS deal less. The less he's embarrassed by words and performances like this, the better he'll be. I'm saying it as well as I can. And note bene, after someone commented on it, please don't take pictures of the ballots on election day, because it's not according to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22648	The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Zdravko Stankovic and Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Alexander Seselj, Verica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted to the 11th amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22649	This is the last amendment to this bill, because it is the last member of the law, but at the same time it is the last amendment that the MPs of the SRS have submitted to these laws that we are discussing today. For the sake of the public, I want to take advantage of this time and draw attention to the fact that we are really seriously doing this job and each of our amendments and that it makes sense and reflects our political attitude towards a particular matter that is regulated by law, and the next law to be discussed in particular is the proposal for a law on electronic document, electronic identification and trust services in electronic business. We didn't tolerate amendments here because we think it's a technical law, that it's a consequence of modern technologies, and that it really should exist in the legal system, but we didn't think that it should be regulated by law, but by sublegal act, but in order not to impose a delusion, we didn't want to intervene in this way. As for this amendment to Article 11 which speaks of the entry into force of the law, you have replied from the ministry that you cannot accept the amendment because the proposal for Article 11 is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. No one mentioned in the amendment to the Constitution, nor did we say that it was not in accordance with the Constitution that the member talking about the entry into force of the law, but we said that the whole bill was not to be discussed, nor should it be voted on. The consequence of this relationship with this bill is that it has to be deleted, that this last member should be deleted, because if there is no law, there is nothing to go on. I think this is also good to explain to the public, since the MPs often abuse time that has a lot more than MPs, and then try to mock the amendments in which MPs demand that certain members be deleted...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22650	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22651	I'm done. This is the only way to express a political stance on a particular proposal by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22652	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 11th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22653	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what everyone needs to understand is that this law, by following laws, is trying to help themselves through public services, through civil servants, to finally be arranged by the state of Serbia and that our citizens do not experience the violence of the state against the citizens. With this in connection, all those who, unlike others who only ruled the country, this government is trying to regulate the state and, of course, we MPs support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22654	Thank you. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22655	I thank the chairman. First of all, I want to thank you both for this amendment and for all the amendments that have been submitted to the Civil Service Act. Of course, our intensity wasn't to make fun of the amendments that were submitted in any way or in the form of these amendments. We tried to really respect everything that was constructive. Unfortunately, it was not a large number of amendments of that kind or of that nature. Two amendments to this law have been passed, four to the previous one. I think those amendments helped make the law's contents better. As for writing the law, I'd say it's quite clear both legal and essential. I would not, nor intend, nor can I, according to the Rules of Procedure, enter a political level of criticism that came, legitimate criticism, of course, by the opposition, nor did I feel that there was a need to answer to such a thing. The adoption of this law will make public administration reform even more intense and that is most important for citizens and citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22656	Thank you, Minister Rose. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Honorable Members of Parliament, now in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We're working on it at 13.40 p.m. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have received amendments submitted by MPs on draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. So, we are talking about item 3 of the agenda – Proposal for a law amending the Information Security Act. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22658	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers and Associates, therefore, the law amending the Information Security Act, which has been changed to three members, and which was passed some year ago and the meaning of this law that the body for the coordination of information security affairs should be separated from the Board of Joint Affairs of the Republic's Authorities, in the light of the law, we realized that this is a harmonisation with EU rules, which is a statement at the end of the law. It is nothing to me to dispute, no matter what I think of the EU, but I do not understand one thing here, and I would like Mr. Minister and his associates to explain this to me. Namely, how did the ICT System Security Center become in the CERT? Why would I ask that? I studied very carefully and from where I can find what CERT means, and I found that CERT is an absolute NATO term, that it's a computer merges rispornistin. And now I ask the question -- are we here talking about European integration, or Euro-Atlantic integration, which is contrary to the publicly declared position of the Republic of Serbia, that we are military neutral. Why is NATO going to give us a NATO term because, I say, I don't see how the ICT system's security centre could have been, by which reduction variants he could have become a CERT? I'd like someone to explain that to me. Otherwise, the law as a law is absolutely necessary, because information security is something that is very important. I hope I get an explanation, so you don't have to go the other way, and that's why you delete it, because we think this is unnecessary and we think it might have stayed what it was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22659	Thank you, colleague Vesovic. The word has a minister, Dr. Rasim Ljajic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22660	Here, very briefly. You said exactly what the CERT's shortcut was. So throughout the world, the legislation of all countries uses the same abbreviations. You yourself said that the essence of the amendment of this law is literally in that one member, that the CERT's affairs will not be done by the Joint Affairs Service, but by the newly formed Information Society Office, and I don't see any particular problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22661	Thank you, Minister. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr. Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22662	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I just heard from Mr. Minister that it's a NATO term, because I haven't found it anywhere but the original documents from the NATO Pact, which I don't like, and that's why that member is being deleted. The third member, who in fact speaks of the reason for the urgency of adopting this law and its inclusion in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia in eight days from the publication in "The Official Messenger", why does he delete it? So, in the reasons you wrote that the reasons that are of paramount importance to safeguard the security of the computer network of the republican authority, namely prevention and protection against possible attacks on the network that can cause damage to the functioning of the state authorities connected to the republican computer network. So, Mr. Minister, you were Minister of Government before the reconstruction, and you were Minister of Government in 2016 in the same vault when this law was passed. I don't understand what changed from 2016 to 2017, or when we needed to understand that urgency. Did it not exist then, and now it has come into existence or has changed something else in the meantime that I don't know what it is? So I don't see how that made any sense, and that's why we suggested that all these members be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22663	Thank you, colleague Vesovic. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22664	One sentence, Mr. Chairman. I call for not to be accepted, and if the question of the origin of the term is relevant to all of this, Mr. Minister is right, it is indeed called that throughout the world. Here, I'm just checking as we speak, that's what it's called in Russia. It might help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22665	Thank you, colleague Orlic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the Bills in particular after we have carried out a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for an ELECTRONIC DOCUMENT LECTRONIC INDENTIFICATION AND SERVICES OF CONSERVATION IN ELECTRONIC BUSINESS. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the draft laws on electronic document, electronic identification and trust services in electronic business. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Both MPs Branko Stamenkovic and Tatjana Macura submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word has a national emissary Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22666	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Minister, this is one of our amendments that has been adopted, most of our amendments have been adopted. I'm glad to see that, because I can see that Mr. Ljajic, whose head is Mr. Ljajic, knows where the positionals are blowing and where the changes come from. What I'd like to point out, and I think everyone should take it seriously, we're not an informatively sophisticated people. So we should understand that e-mailing, that my fellow IT guys know a lot better than I do, is not the right amount of electronic business, it's just one of his minimum parts. What I would like to tell Serbian lawmakers and citizens, that electronic business can make life and business much easier only, however, can make it much more difficult. That's what we've just experienced the opportunity to feel, all those who work in health care, who work in tax services, everyone who works in construction and are tied to the whole procedure. So, experience is very bad. Why did we insist that Article 2 stand – only for natural and legal persons – is defined by electronic business without the authorities of the public authority being singled out? Because they're actually legal faces and they don't have to be particularly isolated. This time, when I talk about public authorities, I think this law will be a turning point and I will be able to send my next amendments to the electronic document, with a qualified electronic certified signature, not that I will have to run to the office and do it at the last minute. That's the only way we think we've improved the work of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22667	Thank you, colleague. To point out that the Government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojic, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Jesic, Maja Vidinović, Tomislav Žigmanov and Dusan Petrovic. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22668	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Minister, three amendments have been accepted by the DS and I don't see why this amendment has not been accepted. There's no fundamental difference here. We suggest that it be added specifically to this article and Article 4a which reads as necessary to add the concept of archive construction. We find it necessary to define him, first of all, in order to better understand this law. There is no other difference in this proposed amendment. So we think this amendment should have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22669	Thank you, Mr. Milojich. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22670	I must say, in our original proposal, there was a provision that you made through the amendment. However, the Legislative Secretariat felt that we could not regulate the issue of archival construction by this law, or by amending a regulation in one area to regulate another area. So these were the reasons why we couldn't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22671	Thank you, Minister. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macur and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a national emissary Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22672	For this amendment, I'm extremely glad it's accepted, because it's one of the examples where we always put on the side of people with disabilities. On purpose or by accident, I think there was a word here. Here we have replaced the words that people with disabilities should be available, we replace them with words – they are equally available to people with disabilities. To the extent possible, the words are deleted. As soon as we put an option – to the extent possible, it means that something is not binding. We believe that this must absolutely not happen and that the bill should hold to the equality of all citizens. In this case, a person with disabilities. Later, sublegal acts, various manuals, such as what we have a manual in construction, a manual on accessibility for people with disabilities and old faces. There will also be some sublegal acts here, and I see it that way, where opportunities will be realized for people with disabilities to have the same treatment as any other person in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22673	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22674	I must say that we have fully taken over the formulation, a directive that exists in the European Directive, regarding persons with disabilities. However, given the large number of amendments to this article, we have chosen that one balanced approach that exists in your amendment, so it is a little more than we have offered, but still less than what some other amendments are required, so it seems to us that we have reconciled some of the two extremes we have had here and prevented any kind of politicization of this article.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22675	Thank you. Here you go, Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22676	I thank Minister Ljajic for his reply, and I thank him for his approach to this problem. Perhaps a large number of amendments to this article were due to the fact that sublaws and manuals and rules here, when persons with disabilities, are not respected until the end. So we have in the legislation a perfectly proper treatment for these people, and then implementation of it in real life is not really like that. Now, we wanted this law to be free of the possibility that it can and does not have to be equally accessible to people with disabilities, but experience has shown us that unfortunately here, in our climate, it has to stand, it has to be equally accessible to people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22677	Thank you, colleague. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) An amendment to which Article 6a is added after Article 6. National MP Vladimir Djuric submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment to which the name of the member and Article 6a shall be added after Article 6. together the messengers of the people, Nenad Canak, Olena Papug, and Nada Lazic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 8th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a national emissary Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22678	Thank you. I am also very glad that this amendment has been accepted for the following reason. Experience has shown that colleagues in the business of obtaining building permits throughout the process, in the last two years, in the great hell, have been symbolically spoken. Suffocated bad software, suffocating system transfers. So people want to do it electronically, but it's very difficult. It is particularly difficult because of the free interpretation of the current laws and sublegal acts that have been valid in this area. It has been shown that there are a number of disadvantages and completely absurd demands that, let's say, the electronic document is not enough to be made in just one of the available information-communication technologies, but that it should be done in two, three, four, as who can and it is a great waste of time, and in this case, people to whom this problem should be very accessible and very simple, very tortured, because they are trying to meet some criteria and their least problem is their work, but this procedure has become completely exhausting, a great waste of time. We believe that at least with a little change, we can contribute to the improvement of this procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22679	Thank you, colleague. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and Tatjana Macura. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22680	The amendment required by this amendment will be accepted through the legal and technical editorial. So there's no need to accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22681	Thank you, Minister. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22682	Thank you. I'd just like a message one, that we all know, hopefully, that past this door there is one real life and that people in it are struggling. So they're struggling with these technologies that are advanced, new and that should make their lives easier. However, that, unfortunately, is not happening. So, tax officials and users of their services are being tortured. Health care professionals and users of their services are struggling. Engineers are being tortured throughout the process and users of their services. So this law should put an end to any arbitrary interpretation of the law and any arbitrary internal regulations that exist in various services. So, if the electronic document contains the electronic signature or seal of the natural person or the authorised person of the legal entity, any other form of signature or seal of the same natural person or authorised person of the legal entity shall be unnecessary. We insisted on this change because we have often had situations in practice that, in addition to electronic, certified, qualified signatures, require that hand signatures be applied and this is a major problem, a major waste of time and we get huge and difficult files, which we can hardly release through the electronic document transfer system. So we want to simplify it and unnecessarily throw it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22683	Thank you, colleague. National MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Jesic, Maja Vidinović, Tomislav Žigmanov and Dusan Petrovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22684	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister, this amendment proposes a concrete addition of Item 5 which says that a copy of the electronic document on paper is required and must contain a mark that it is a copy of the electronic document. We think it's necessary to mark it this way that it's a copy of the electronic document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22685	Thanks, buddy. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and Tatjana Macura. The word has a national MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22686	Thank you. This is the first of the ten amendments passed by the bill's promoter and all ten refer to the corrections of spelling, spelling and grammatical errors. I am pleased that by adopting these amendments, the legislator of the law has shown his understanding that we should have written laws. However, I would like to ask that in the future when the draft laws are sent to the Assembly, someone from a lecturer or a colleague who is an expert in language looks at, because this bill really has a lot of literal mistakes. There are more of them than I've submitted to the amendment. Personally, I find it disrespectful to the National Assembly. That doesn't have to mean that it's on your mind, it's probably the speed, but in order not to leave that impression, I pray for the future, I stress that it's not just from your ministry that it's arrived, literally from every ministry so far, with spelling and spelling mistakes, but I notice that the situation is slowly improving as new laws arrive. So, in that sense, just to draw attention to the future to pay attention to it coming in a more written form, because we can't be angry with our children that they're illiterate, that they're like this if we keep sending a message from this highest legislative body that it's acceptable. We have to give them an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22687	Thank you, colleague. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22688	I'm really sorry for the mistakes that are more than acceptable otherwise. There'll always be them, but there's more here. It really is no evidence of disrespect, at least the National Assembly. In the end, of the 49 proposed amendments, we accepted 23 and, believe me, I don't know if anyone in power, the opposition, is from which party. If we feel that 5% improves the text or precises the text of this law, we accept it. Therefore, if we thought that we were in any way not giving in to your efforts and work, we wouldn't be doing it, but here is always the problem. If you accept more amendments, they say - here, they sent us a bad law, so they had to accept the amendments. If we do not accept the amendments, then they say – so you do not respect the proposals coming from the opposition. So you can't find any environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22689	Thank you, Minister. Before I give my word to my colleague Orlic, just to point out that the Government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22690	All due to the debate, Mr. Chairman and Mr. Minister, and, of course, I welcome every opportunity to contribute together to make something even better in that sense and those corrections that are technical or linguistic. Everything that contributes to making things better is good. As for constructive approach, I think it's proof that there is no better fact that such a large number of amendments have been accepted by the promoter. So, if this is not proof of a positive and constructive approach, you will not find better, but when we talk about these technical issues, just because of the fact that this is a kind of disrespect and evidence of something, and just as we have reacted today when the term of illiteracy is moving, it is always good to keep an eye on and in this sense draws attention to the amendment's promoter to be guided by that famous and universal, to take care of the ratio of the drone's perception in his brother's eye, and to miss a lock in his eye. As many technical and spelling errors have come to this session only in different amendments to this parliamentary group, we could talk about this whole day of God. We don't do that, but to make sure before the next time they give themselves room to comment on that kind of thing. It's been constructive so far. There's no need to spoil it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22691	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The 11th amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Branka Stamenković and Tatjana Macura together submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Branka Stamenković and Tatjana Macura together submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22692	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would take the opportunity to thank Mr. Ljajic, because about the only ministry, whose head you are in, has found time to read the amendments proposed by the opposition and that perhaps in this way colleagues on the other side of the hall, when I say on the other side of the hall, I mean nothing ugly, they realize that we are not only proposing the amendments "be deleted", but something that makes sense. It was an amendment to Article 23. Article 23 is called - the interoperability of technical systems, where we have said: "The Ministry is working with the competent bodies of the EU" replaced the words "The Ministry is working with competent international bodies". This is exactly what the Serbian Dvori Movement has been trying to explain in this assembly for a year now, that there are other non-EU countries besides the EU and that co-operation should not only be limited to those countries that are EU members, i.e. operating under EU regulations, because it should also co-operate with other cross-border bodies that are not subject to EU bodies, and this usually involves EU countries first. A similar amendment was submitted ten days ago in the higher education laws, and he was rejected from the ministry. I really thank you for finding the opportunity to realize that this is actually for the benefit of the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22693	Thank you, colleague Vesovic. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22694	It's just that your formulation was broader. We have proposed to co-operate with EU authorities, and we have an interest in working with countries in this area that our neighbours are above all, with other non-EU countries, because our schemes open access to other countries, we also use schemes from other countries, and that is why we have accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22695	Thank you, Minister. The National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Article 24 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. At the session of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Jesic, Maja Vidinović, Tomislav Žigmanov and Dusan Petrovic and together Branka Stamenković and Tatjana Macura submitted. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22696	Thank you. This and the next two amendments have been accepted. All three amendments are of a linguistic nature, so we don't see here an opportunity for some kind of political upgrade. Anyone who ran a system, a large system, of a municipality, of a ministry, of a public enterprise, knows that these things depend on technical services, so it's not the end of the world and if these things happen, but it should make sure that there are as few. No president of the municipality, the minister, the director, writes with his own hand the proposed amendments, but we have pointed out and we are glad that these amendments have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22697	Thank you. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The word is Dr. Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22698	Thank you, Chairman. In Article 27, we proposed that the amendments be rejected: “and, later, within 24 hours of knowledge, ” and that the whole member remain. Why? Because in the field of information technologies, we believe that for 24 hours there is a huge time period in which the most different abuse of everything that would be "stolen" can be committed and waited 24 hours to pass while we do something about it. We have even, if you have read the explanation, suggested that 24 hours remain, but not in this sense, but as twenty-four-hour duty on duty in inspection, that immediately after obtaining information, we can take steps to raise the safety of users of these services to the highest possible level. That's why we thought it made sense to accept this. Unfortunately, you found that wrong, but we still believe that 24 hours is a huge period in the field of information technology and for this time interval can be the most different abuses to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22699	Thank you. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22700	And in the eIDAS directive there is this 24-hour definition. So, no later than 24 hours. If we say - without delay, it's like that bakery for five minutes. When the burek - in five minutes, and then those five minutes will stretch for an hour. Therefore, that was the reason, because we wanted to avoid widely interpreting the terms – without delay.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22701	Thank you. Article 29 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. At the session of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic together submitted the 29th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs together Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Marjanović, Goran Jesic, Maja Vidinović, Tomislav Žigmanov and Dusan Petrovic, together with Branka Stamenković and Tatjana Macura, submitted to the 34th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 36th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Mr Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22702	I welcome the ministry's decision and I repeat once again that it is positive that one minister has adopted certain concrete things, unlike what we have experienced in the past, that many things that have made more sense than this have been accepted. The Dvori Movement proposed, on Article 36 – the termination of the provision of a service for the issue of qualified electronic certificates, the 3rd position to delete the word "or the ministry", because in this way the ministry interferes in market policy and we believe that there is a monopoly on other companies dealing with this sector. We absolutely believe this is the right decision, as the ministry as a competent institution should not deal with the regulation of the market in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22703	Thank you, colleague Kostic. Article 36 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. At its session of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 39th amendment. The word is Mr Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22704	The Dveri Parliamentary Group believes that Article 39's Article 3 should be deleted, and it reads: "The sign of reliability from Article 1 is used until the entry into membership of the Republic of Serbia into the European Union." We think it is unnecessary for the concepts of political change, such as the European Union, to be introduced into the membership and into the laws, because we ourselves do not know when we will enter the European Union and how long this process will take. That's why we think that attitude 3 was unnecessary and that it could have happened without it. We don't know why it wasn't accepted, but, in any case, one process that has no end, which we don't know how it's going to end, should not be binding in this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22705	Thank you, colleague Kostic. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic together submitted the 40th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Dr Dragan Vesovic. Here you go, colleague Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22706	Thank you, Chairman. In Article 40, the promoter proposed that - a qualified trust service provided by the foreign service provider is equal to the domestic service. Serbia's Dvori movement's amendment went in the sense that a qualified trust service provided by a foreign service provider of trust in reciprocity. So we have requested, and the competent ministry and committees have accepted, to change it, to create equal conditions and our companies in other countries' markets, because we are witnesses that in the country of Serbia foreign companies have a privileged position by the state of Serbia compared to domestic companies, and plus, they have subsidies from their countries from which they come, so we wanted to allow this amendment in this article to allow fair and fair conditions and the Serbian firms within the framework and these technologies, otherwise, in which we have huge potential and thus provide a situation that will allow our companies to function uninterruptedly and beyond our borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22707	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. Members of the 43rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and Tatjana Macura. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Stamenkovic and Tatjana Macura together submitted to the 47th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 50th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 50th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 51 of the amendment, paragraph 6. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment with the correction. Here you go. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22708	We've accepted the amendment, and now we accept the correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22709	Thank you, Minister. Members of the 51st amendment were submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 58th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and Tatjana Macura. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 59th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and Tatjana Macura. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic together submitted to Article 62 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Stamenkovic and Tatjana Macura together submitted to the 62nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to the 65th amendment. The word has a national emissary Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22710	Thank you. First of all, I would like to point out that the current Law on the Electronic Document, the electronic signature, was so inapplicable. So, the great problems of the people in the business were with that law and all our amendments were given experiencedly. At this change, we asked for inspection controls to check, sanction the use of internal regulations that do not fall under the sublaw of this law. It's not an accident, we didn't accidentally put it on, because there's a series of internal regulations going on, internal arrangements that are complicated by the electronic business system of our own. If every natural person needs to have his own personal IT in electronic business, it's good for informers and they know it well, but it can't be good for business and it can't be called good electronic business. So what's most important, we have to understand, I'm going to repeat again, that we're really not an informative society, that it really has to be introduced gradually and consistently and in the right way. That we have software problems, where for different types of electronic business, we have the same software, and different versions of software are wanted. Well, sometimes I don't know if I own a company or if I'm an architect. So that's something that needs to be solved by this law and that's reality. It's a way of functioning e-business out of these doors. So there's real life and things don't work the way everything on paper looks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22711	Thank you, colleague. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 66 of the amendment, Article 157(6) shall apply. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. At its session of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment to which new members of 69a are added after Article 69a and 69b is based on Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure submitted a Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. At the session of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 70 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure submitted a Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment with a correction, in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment with the correction. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22712	I accept the amendment with the correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22713	Thank you, Minister. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 70th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Goran Ćirić, Radoslav Milojičić, Balša Bozovic, Aleksandra Jerkov, Dejan Nikolic, Vesna Marjanovic, Goran Jesic, Maja Vidinović, Tomislav Žigmanov and Dusan Petrovic submitted to the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Marija Janjušević, Zoran Radojić, Dr Dragan Vesović and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. I'm asking the MPs, and now I'm giving a 15-minute break, to define what time and day it will be to vote, so continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-12-0.u22714	Dear MPs, since the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the MPs in the National Assembly for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the seats of MPs to fill the seats in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Mirjana Dragas, elected from the electoral list Ivica Dačić – the Socialist Party of Serbia, the Unique Serbia – Dragan Markovic Palm and Branko Popovic and Boban Birmancevic, elected from the election list Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia wins. On the basis of the Decision of the Republic Election Commission, Reports of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Mirjana Dragas, Branko Popovic and Boban Birmancevic. I congratulate the MPs of the election and ask that they prepare to take an oath. Dear People's MPs, please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, honest, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and minority rights and civil liberties and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." Thank you. I ask the MPs to sign the text of the oath. Allow me to congratulate on behalf of the MPs of the National Assembly and on my behalf on the selection of MPs and to wish you successful joint work in the current term of office. We continue our work. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 168 paragraphs 3 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly during the session of the National Assembly may, in an emergency procedure, put forward proposals for the selection and appointment and resolution and termination of office on the agenda provided that the sittings are attended by the majority of the total number of MPs. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units to determine the quorum. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 83 MPs are present in the hall and therefore there are no conditions for this part of the session, or for the inclusion by emergency procedure of certain acts. As the chairman concluded the discussion in particular, the last Law we had on the agenda, according to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint 17 October 2017, starting at 10.00 a.m., as the Day of Vote on the agendas of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 100 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 150 MPs are present in the hall and that we can continue our work. We're going to vote. I put the draft law on the National Public Administration Academy, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, v – five, abstention – one, 16 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Filip Stojanovic and seven MPs of the Dveri group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four people. 165 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarovic and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and seven MPs from the Dveri group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stankovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Ruzica Nikolic and seven MPs from the Dveri group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Together, MPs Gorica Gajic, Dejan Šulkic and Milan Lapcevic submitted the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment with an amendment to add new titles and new members of 3a, 3b and 3v together was submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dejan Sulkic and Milan Lapčević. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Verica Radeta, Aleksandar Seselj and Petar Jojic and seven MPs from the Dveri group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and Tatjana Macura. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Eight MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Aleksandra Belačić and seven MPs of the Dveri group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia, submitted the 5th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the MP group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and Tatjana Macura. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Together, Verica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Dubravko Bojic and the Dveri parliamentary group submitted to the 6th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dejan Šulkic and Milan Lapcevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 6 of the amendment was tabled by the MPs' group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, added after article 6a, was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added after Article 6a, was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, added after article 6, was submitted by MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Bozidar Delic and Nikola Savic, and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Tomislav LJubenović and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlovic and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The SDS parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia, submitted the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment, with a correction, was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The MPs together Zoran Krasic, Marina Ristic and Sreto Peric, and the Dveri parliamentary group submitted to the 9th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 22, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 9th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which is added to the title after article 9, and a new member of the 9th, was submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the National Movement of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Marina Ristic and Momcilo Mandic, the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Movement of Serbia, and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Branko Stamenković and Tatjana Macura and together by Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Momcilo Mandic and Sreto Peric, and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 11th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by the MPs' group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Tomislav LJubenović and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the MP group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Bozidar Delic and Nikola Savic and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Dubravko Bojic and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 14 of the amendment was tabled by the MPs' group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dusan Pavlovic, together Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Aleksandra Belačić and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dusan Pavlovic, together Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandar Seselj and Petar Jojic and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Ruzica Nikolic and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. A member of the 17th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by the MP group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Dusan Pavlovic, together Nemanja Sarovic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dejan Šulkic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Filip Stojanovic and the Dveri parliamentary group submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th Amendment was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on the National Public Administration Academy, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147 versus – 12, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the National Academy of Public Administration. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, v – 14, abstention – one, 22 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic and Parliament group of Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Nenad Christmas, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Vladimir Djuric submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Branko Stamenkovic and Tatjana Macura submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the MPs' group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, with a correction, was submitted by the Single Serbia parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroslav Aleksic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was tabled by the MPs' group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandra Belačić and Zoran Krasic and Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 22, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted a parliamentary group to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dejan Šulkic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by the MP group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav LJubenović, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 6 of the amendment was tabled by the MPs' group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Bozidar Delic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 7th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of the amendment was tabled by the MPs' group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Together, Ruzica Nikolic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic and the MPs' Club of Independent MPs submitted to the 9th amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th Amendment in the same text was jointly submitted by Verica Radeta, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic and the MPs' Club of Independent MPs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 24, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radoslav Milojic, Dejan Nikolic and Veroljub Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and Tatjana Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Verica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, in general. I conclude the vote: no 32 MPs voted for – 143 against – seven abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants. I put the motion for a law amending the Information Security Act in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 147 against – nine, abstention – one, 25 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Vladimir Djuric submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two, against them. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I'm putting to the vote the draft law amending the Information Security Act, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 147 against – nine, abstention – one, 26 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Information Security Act. I put to the vote the draft law on electronic document, electronic identification and trust services in electronic business, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 147 against – four, abstention – one, 30 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Both MPs Branko Stamenkovic and Tatjana Macura submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Ten MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macur and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the SDS, the NPS, submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment, added after article 6a, was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment, which was added after article 6, is the name of the member and member of the 6a, was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic and Tatjana Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Ten MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the SDS parliamentary group, the NPS, submitted the amendment to Article 19. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 27th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – two, with abstention – there is no. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 29th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – five, against – four, abstention – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 35th amendment was submitted by the Social Democratic Break parliamentary group, the People's Movement of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 38th Amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for three against seven. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament's Dverry Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no nine abstentions for—four against—there are no abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The MP group Dveri submitted to the 47th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – 13, the abstentions are gone. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 50th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 51st amendment were submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together to the 62nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 65th Amendment was submitted by the MP group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 66th Amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for three against seven. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Break, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 70th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Break, the People's Movement of Serbia, submitted to the 71st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 72 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – 18, with abstentions – there is no. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put to the vote the draft law on electronic document, electronic identification and trust services in electronic business, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 146, v – three, abstention - one. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft laws on electronic document, electronic identification and trust services in electronic business. We move to a decision on the proposals for decisions on elections and resolutions from item 5 to item 12 of the agenda. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted by the National Assembly president, on 22 September 2017, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 175, against – no one with abstentions has voted, nine MPs have voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted by the president of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, on 13 September 2017, as a whole. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted nine MPs for – 176. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group, as a whole. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 174. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been tabled by the SRS parliamentary group since 21 September 2017 in general. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 177 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision to amend and supplement the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been tabled by the SRS parliamentary group since 12 September 2017, in general. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 11 MPs for – 174. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has been tabled by the SRS parliamentary group since 31 July 2017, in general. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 175, against – ten MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the New Serbia parliamentary group – the Movement for Rescue of Serbia, as a whole. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – 23, abstentions – two, 148 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted by the president of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, on 25 September 2017, as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 174. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision in general. We're moving on to Rules of Procedure's injuries. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, at a session on 3 October 2017, at 1600 hours, pointed to a violation of article 130. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 3 October 2017, at 16.06 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 88 of the 5th and 7. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 3 October 2017, at 16.20 p.m., pointed to an injury. 124, 125 and 126. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that those members have not been injured. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 3 October 2017, at 16.50 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 3 October 2017, at 17.00 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 88(8). Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Vladimir Djuric, at a session on 3 October 2017, at 17.13 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 130(4). Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Natasa Micic, at a session on 4 October 2017, at 11:54 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Radoslav Milojičić, at a session on 4 October 2017, at 1212 hours, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, at a session on 4 October 2017, at 12.15 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has joined the vote. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 4 October 2017, at 1217 hours, pointed to a violation of Article 109. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, at a session on 4 October 2017, at 1257 hours, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Marijan Risticevic, at a session on 4 October 2017, at 1:15 p.m., pointed to injuries. 103, 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the three abstentions. I find that those members have not been injured. National MP Goran Ćirić, at a session on 4 October 2017, at 15.58 pm, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on 4 October 2017, at 16.01 p.m., pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 4 October 2017, at 16.05 p.m., pointed to an injury. 108th and 109th. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that those members have not been injured. National MP Ana Stevanović, at a session on 4 October 2017, at 17.29 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 106(1). Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Ana Stevanović, at a session on 4 October 2017, at 17.32 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 107(1). Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – two against – one with abstention. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Maja Vidinović, at a session on 4 October 2017, at 1831, pointed to a violation of Article 106. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 9 October 2017, at 13.09 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 9 October 2017, at 13.26 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Radoslav Milojičić, at a session on 9 October 2017, at 13.43 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, at a session on 9 October 2017, at 13.45 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 21. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Branka Stamenković, at a session on 9 October 2017 at 14.38 p.m., pointed to a violation of Articles 103, 7 and 8. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Goran Ćirić, at a session on 9 October 2017, at 14.51 p.m., pointed to an injury. 106th and 107th. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that those members have not been injured. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 12 October 2017, at 11.14 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the said member has not been injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the first session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Thank you.
