ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-31-0.u17259	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I am opening the seventh special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. This special session was convened on the basis of Article 114(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia: "When the President of the Republic takes office, he takes an oath before the National Assembly." You received Mr. Alexander Vukic's resignation as Prime Minister on 30 May 2017. I would ask you to allow at least a solemn session to go through as the act of taking the oath of the president of a country deserves and how it is done in all countries of the world that care about jurisdiction and democracy. [[The opposition's emissaries applaud.]] Okay, I'll buy you theater tickets for tomorrow. [[The opposition's emissaries applaud.]] Thank you very much. Let's end this unskilled performance. You've accepted Mr. Alexander Vukic's resignation. According to Article 132. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 20. The Government Act and Article 278. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly at the first next session, without a search, determines the resignation of the Prime Minister and does not decide on this, where the term of office of the entire government ends on the day of the Prime Minister's resignation at the meeting of the National Assembly. Before we approach... Just so you know, honourable MPs, this is a picture of yourself, not a picture of what you would like the citizens of Serbia to understand, because no one can clearly understand you. [[The opposition's emissaries applaud.]] Before joining the oath of the President of the Republic, it is necessary that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 132, paragraph 3. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the prime minister's resignation, has been determined. On the basis of Article 132. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 20(2). The Government Act and Article 278. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly, hereby finds that Aleksandar Vukic has resigned as Prime Minister for moving on to a new post. This finding ended the mandate of the government of the Republic of Serbia. I now set a break until 12.00 hours to prepare for the sworn oath of the President of the Republic. Thank you. [[after breaks]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend this session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to the MPs and elected President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic and President of the Republic of Serbia Tomislav Nikolic: former Presidents of the Republic of Serbia and Yugoslavia, President of Republika Srpska, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister of Republika Srpska, First Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Vice-Presidents and Ministers of Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the heads of the offices of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Today's session is also attended by: President of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina Assembly and Prime Minister of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, President of the Belgrade City Assembly and Mayor of the City of Belgrade, President of the Constitutional Court, President of the Supreme Cassation Court and President of the Administrative, Privredna, Appealal and Violation Court of Appeal, Representatives of the Army of the Republic of Serbia, Police, Independent Regulatory Authorities, Traditional Churches and Religious Communities, the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, the Mother of Serbia, as well as the rectors of the university whose founder is the Republic of Serbia. Also today's session invited the heads of diplomatic consular missions and international organisations in the Republic of Serbia. Let me, on my own behalf and in behalf of the National Assembly, welcome the esteemed guests. Dear People's MPs, you have received a report from the Republic Election Commission on the elections held for the President of the Republic. The Republic Election Commission, held on 20 April 2017, identified the final results of the election for the President of the Republic, according to which candidate Aleksandar Vukic received 2,012,788 voters' votes, accounting for 0.08% and most of the voters who voted. On this basis, the Republic Election Commission found that Mr Aleksandar Vukic was elected president of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how the conditions for the President of the Republic, acting in accordance with Article 114(3), were obtained. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia takes an oath before the National Assembly. [[Applause]] According to Article 262. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Oath, sets out by reading the Constitution of the established text. Following an oath, the President of the Republic shall sign the text of the oath. I call on the elected president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, to take an oath before the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. (The President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic reads the following text of the oath set out in Article 114(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-31-0.u17261	"I pledge to dedicate all my strengths to preserving the sovereignty and the whole of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, including Kosovo and Metohia as its constituent part, as well as the achievement of human and minority rights and freedoms, respect and defence of the constitution and laws, the preservation of peace and well-being of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that I will knowingly and responsibly fulfil all my duties. " (Intonation of the Anthem "God of Justice". )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-31-0.u17262	Dear People's MPs, allow me, on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to congratulate Mr Alexander Vukic on his duty as President of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. President, I invite you to address the National Assembly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-31-0.u17263	I thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, your Holiness, the Reverend Fathers, representatives of all religious communities, the Honorable President of Republika Srpska, Dodik, the Prime Minister of Republika Srpska, the Honorable Tomislav, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, your Excellency, I apologize today when I stand before you, in front of Serbia, all of its citizens, very far from where, in 1830, Milos Obrenovic declared the First Hatisherif and founded myself in the independence of modern Serbia, more than clear to me, that as far as I was prepared for it, I have prepared myself, my entire political life. However, I cannot find enough words to sum up, explain, and fear and hope, which I feel by taking this, for me, sacred duty and obligation. I know, as much as any man in this country, that it takes me to be president of Serbia, much more than words, and that the final word and the court will be spoken not today, but the day I leave this duty, when I am done with this most honorable obligation. Today, in this place, I want to thank all the previous presidents of the Republic, who contributed to Serbia's progress and prosperity. I especially want to give recognition to President Nikolic, not curtually, but because he had the courage to support the most difficult, but the only comprehensive correct measures the government has taken on the path of Serbia's recovery. Thank you and I wish Mr. President a lot of success in further work. I have learned to present to this high House a program for the work of the Government large and comprehensive, and today, in accordance with the tradition of this ceremony, I will present several indications, principles, principles and legality that I will stick to during the term of office, trying to change myself in that time, as much as possible to Serbia and to encourage each of its citizens just to make it a better, stronger, richer and happier country, and all of us more satisfied and accomplished people. The job is, I know very well, for entire generations, but I also know that someone has to start it, that they have to step out, take over that first run in the future, the first jump over a dangerous break-in, and that someone in all of this has no right to deal with their own destiny, or any personal gain, has already suffered a very conscious sacrifice for the people and for the state. In other words, today, just like three years ago, when I took over as Serbian Prime Minister, I have no doubt about what I do for Serbia, for its citizens, for the future we need to win. I have to give literally everything and I can't, I don't want to, and I don't want to get literally anything, except the court that's going to stay in history about what I've been doing. It may seem a little bit to someone, because history doesn't provide for sanctions, but for me, that court is equal to that terrible, final and represents the greatest reminder and the best instruction for everything in the period ahead of us and in front of me and I have to and I want to do, because it's the biggest bill I have to make to the people in front of our children and their children. Everything else is the day-to-day policy that I have today and under the Constitution and I have no right, at least not as much as I had until yesterday. It's mine, and it's my duty and my obligation to lead forward to tomorrow along with all of you this beautiful country. It's mine, let me paraphrase, find a way, go with it and show it to others. It is my recommendation that in the beginning of the XIX century, the famous President John Quincy Adams, who inspired all his works to learn more, to dream more, to do more and become more, to make Serbia, our homeland, our origin and our dream a better, happier, safer and richer country. I mean, as much as I want strong, safe and rich Serbia, I can't get to it alone. We need energy, strength, will and a clear vision of such a Serbia in each of its citizens, in the entire people who, giving me this mandate, have already decided to take this long and difficult path. We need all the unity, the same goal and the same faith that can be reached in the same amount of effort that has been made to achieve it, the community freed from daily, party, ideological and any other differences and I will work with my own strength on this community, on the unity and unity of those who love Serbia, those who Serbia is more than personal and party interests. I'm gonna ask for community every day. I will demand it and fight for it with a very short explanation. It's not what I need personally. I've politically come true a long time ago. In the election of all political ambitions, as the people would say, I have lived through all the election records, and I have nothing more to reach in that sky, but that community needs Serbia and every man in it because of our ability to recognize the common goal and to make a common effort, to bear the same common sacrifice depends, but literally, and whether we will not only have a future in common but also whether we will have it at all. Divided by interests, no matter how large, fragmented Serbia can not reach anywhere. Dispersed by ambitions, dissipated by vanity, quarreled over ideology, religion, parties, nations, clubs, this country and every country does nothing but sign an eternal act of being small forever and in every respect, poor and forever freed of any hope for the better tomorrow. There's no freedom in any division. There's no progress in the fights, no goal in the haze of conflict. No results without mutual respect. It can't be seen, it can't be recognized, it's unclear, and it's unreachable. It is my duty, one of the first, to say so, just as it is my duty to say and much harder things and to hear all those who are not good for me. After all, freedom is nothing more than the possibility of telling people what they don't want to hear, and that's one of the principles that I will stick to in my relationship with the people and the citizens of Serbia, because it allows the process that we started a few years ago and which has received first and serious results. We told the truth regardless of how many of them didn't want to hear it, and we started changing, changing ourselves and changing Serbia. We have admitted that we are no chosen people, that we are neither the greatest nor the smartest, that we do not live in any sky, but here in our Serbia, and that it will be in us exactly as we deserve in our work. We stopped waiting, and we started looking. We stopped making excuses, and we started taking responsibility. We stopped hiding, and we started to draw on every challenge. We stopped looking for culprits and excuses, and we started to find faults in us. We stopped hoping someone would give us something. We started to believe we could create something. We stopped believing in death and war. We started believing in life and hard work. In the end, we stopped praying to anyone for crumbs, but we began to believe in ourselves and Serbia. In all this, on that change, we built the foundation of our own future and the future of this country. On this basis, I intend, together with the Serbian Government, to continue to build, to lift together with everyone in Serbia floor by floor, step by step, board on board, without ever wanting to finish this building, but only to raise it high enough, stable enough for others after us and after me to go to unaccounted heights. I am very aware of what we need, what we all need to do to do this neither easy nor short-lived task, and we need what the great Thomas Edison has sworn – hard work, dedication and common sense. And we need that in every hardship, and many are before us, seeking what Albert Einstein sought in them, an opportunity to succeed. We need it, and I'm going to stop with the quotes, that like Thomas Jefferson, we believe in happiness, but as he does, there's always more of it if we work harder. It's the key to our future, very simple if you're willing to take it in your hands and turn it in the right direction. The hard work, the commitment to this hard work, the common sense that tells us that opportunities are hidden in the obstacles ahead of us and the happiness we deserve, we conquer by our hard and continuous work. And when we accept that, those simple rules, we'll be able to solve all the tasks ahead of us, whose number and how big. Peace, permanent, stable, fruitful peace in Serbia and throughout the region is certainly the first of them. I'll work on it. I will talk to everyone, I will offer solutions, I will insist on dialogue and compromise, because I deeply believe that it is the basis of every progress, every successful job and a safe future. So peace and stability, for many of the words that have no real and life meaning, are and will be the core of my future political action. In order to preserve ourselves, we need to talk to everyone, but also strengthen our defence capacities, because that is the only way we can save the country from those who threaten us daily, publicly and openly, but also quietly and secretly. Serbia is an independent and sovereign country. That is exactly how Serbia can be proud of all its citizens. After all, freedom is the value our citizens have always put on the highest pedestal. Because of this and such beloved freedom, Serbia wants to build and provide its own defence, security system, its borders, country, air and water. That is why we do not want to enter military alliances and pacts and participate in actions against some other peoples and states, as some of them have participated in the aggression against our Serbia. We want to be on our own, to have a well-equipped and modern army, a Serb army that knows and can preserve and defend what is ours. We won't, but we won't give ours to anyone. We'll be strong, strong enough so we can do it. Military neutrality policy will be the policy I'm going to protect, but cooperation with everyone whose side we don't want to be, but we have an obligation to build different and better relationships. Also, I believe that this entire region is a large system of merged courts and fate and that we cannot do well in Serbia if anyone around us is bad. We can't all find much together, except friends in a great world long ago, divided and organized, but that's why we can find a lot here on the market of more than 20 million people whose size is hidden in diversity. We can connect, build bridges and roads between us, create jobs, increase exchange, learn from each other, bring investors. We can, with hard work, common sense and happiness, win, create a region where differences are an advantage, not a basis for conflict. We can work and connect and finally understand, figure out how much we depend on each other and create the kind of future in which our relationship will never again be fear and sight that we have so many times in the history of weapons instead of getting to work. It will be my basic message to everyone around us, to the nations and to the nations around us. Let's create jobs because jobs create us, create children and give everyone a new chance for even more jobs, even more children for a better future. We've been buried in the Balkans a lot. It's time to be born. I will safeguard Serbia's integrity, but I will always accept talks with Kosovo Albanians, because this protects our Serbs, safeguards and defends peace. It is better for me to be difficult, sometimes to feel humiliated, but it is much more important that Serbia is not humiliated and that people in our country have peace and peace. We've given enough death, it's time to give life. All together in the Western Balkans, we have destroyed a lot. It's time to build. We've been victims of our own fears. It's time to be the heroes of the future we believe in. It's these messages that I'm going to go through the region with, looking for a new chance for all of us who live here. I won't do it because Serbia fears anyone, so some are much stronger. No, on the contrary, I'm going to do it just because we left every fear behind. That's why I want to open an internal dialogue on Kosovo and Metohija. With all our differences, without prejudice, and by respecting the Constitution of our country, we must be open, free of the mythic approach, but also the easy giving of what we have every right to. Our internal dialogue on this issue may be more important than the one we need to lead with Albanians. Serbia is a serious, strong state that can defend itself, which is committed to its freedom and its security and which is precisely why it can and always wants to give everyone a hand, without fear of what will happen to that hand. Yes, we want to fix relations with Croatia, we want to further improve co-operation with Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania, Montenegro, Macedonia, but also Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria. We have no doubt about anyone, but let no one doubt us or our commitment to peace, nor our willingness to defend ourselves, just as no doubt should be in the European path we have dedicated ourselves to, and that is not a phrase or a binding statement that all politicians in the Balkans have learned, common and boring. We want to build a democratic society and this very type of society is the basic reason for our persistent and persistent survival on that path. We will continue him, not begging anyone for anything, but firmly believing in ourselves and the reforms we can and must do. Again and not, first of all, because of Europe, but because of us. For many years, we have been accused of not being able to preserve our clear, sincere friendship with the Russian Federation. We were returned to ties only with Rubljev and Dostoyevski, but we citizens of Serbia and the state leadership of the Republic of Serbia and in the most difficult conditions managed to resist all pressures and stubbornly guard and build the best relations with the Russian people and their state leadership. That policy will be followed by Serbia in the future. We're proud of our friendships and we never are and we won't be ashamed of them. We have succeeded in the last few years more than ever before in building warm and very warm friendly relations with the People's Republic of China. They helped us through the takeover of the Smederjevo Irons, saved us from thousands of jobs, but also by participating in numerous infrastructure and projects in the fields of energy and mining. Thanks for that. We'll build even better relationships. We have established new relations with India, improved with Japan and South Korea, Africa, South America, Australia and the Ocean. We still have a lot of work to do to improve our relationship with the United States strategically. One who would not build a friendship with America, regardless of our differences in Kosovo and Metohija, would make a huge mistake and cause enormous damage to our Serbia. I certainly won't do it, and I will fight for the best possible relationship between us and the United States. We want open, wide Serbia, Serbia for all, ready for co-operation, eager work and new opportunities for new work. We want Serbia from different nations living in peace and harmony. We want people we don't recognize just by their faith, but by honesty and diligence. Because it's also the best way, since work requires rules, to arrange our country, to correct everything we haven't fixed yet, to make it comfortable for every man in it. I will pay particular attention to this, and I will ask the Government and the Assembly to move forward with reforms, of which they are probably the most necessary in the judiciary, and in education perhaps even more, but certainly not the only one, and to continue with daily changes in each segment of our public life, so that we can, at the most recently, say rightly and peacefully – Serbia, its citizens, we are both Europe and the world according to every standard that is in the EU, but in the modern world. I plan to open talks on constitutional reforms. This is what we are obliged to do by continuing our European path, but also by internal needs. We cannot come to these changes without agreement, without a lot of discussion and debate on what might be our strategic goals for the first time in the future. In these talks, it will be necessary to include all social factors, from the Academy of Science, civil society, political parties, religious communities. Besides, it's a big and important goal. If we fail, it will be just another one of our failures to agree on key state issues, but I will not give up easily and I will fight along with all of you to succeed. "We should look straight, because if we wanted to look behind us, we would get eyes on the back of the back of the head. The land of its children should be loved, not by their grandfathers, because it is not an honor that depends on where we come from, but on where we go. “ This was written by the great Bora Pekic, and I will try as much as I can to follow his true and magnificent words. It is, dear fellow citizens, honourable Members of the people, the work that is before us and which I intend to do. I'm not afraid of him, because you know what they say – no one has drowned in their sweat yet, so I can calmly, I intend to, honestly, sweat. Besides, that's what history makes me do. Eight hundred years ago, exactly, in 1217, by coronation of Stefan the Prime Minister, Serbia became an internationally recognised state. 200 years ago, in 1817, Serbia gained autonomy after centuries of slavery and took the first step towards new statehood. Today, in 2017, nothing so big and significant has happened, except for one thing – Serbia has received a president who will fight for it with all his heart, all his strength and energy. It was received from the people, in the name of the people, and for the people, for the people who will be equal for me, his president, both by rights and by chance and by the possibility of asking me, and from me. I want as president of Serbia to always be with our people living in our environment, always be with the Republic of Serbia, just as their leadership and the people of Republika Srpska are always with Serbia. Thank you both to the President and the Prime Minister and the President of the National Assembly for being here today. But I also want to be with Serbs in Montenegro, Croatia, Macedonia, Slovenia, Romania, in no way endangering the integrity and sovereignty of the countries in which these Serbs live. To help preserve the temples and monasteries of Serbian churches in all these countries, because only where the Serbian Orthodox Church is strong in the former Yugoslavia, our people have succeeded and could preserve their hearths. I want to thank our people, all of our citizens, all of our people, whether 20 or who knows how many thousands of people who, on this day of work, came not to me, but to all of you and all of us together to greet here in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to thank them for their huge support, for their hope and faith in a different and better future, and after all of our responsibility and help us to do our national affairs in the best way. I believe that with your help, dear Serbian citizens, with that enormous power that you have given me, perhaps the best result in Serbia's modern history, in the first round of presidential elections, I will be able to answer every question and every request, every challenge that lies ahead of me, because, and that's what Lao Ce said, that someone loves you gives you strength, and that you love someone gives you courage. I love this country to Serbia above all else, and that makes me a very brave president. Thank you, too, dear Members of the People, for putting up with me in the past as Prime Minister and fighting with me for a different and better Serbia. [[Applause]] I believe we will continue this business in the future. Everything else is on me to earn it. Thank you for your attention. Long live Serbia! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-31-0.u17264	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hereby conclude the seventh special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. (Employing the issue of ‘Becoming Servius’). )
