ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-22-0.u26217	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 143 MPs are present in the hall and we have working conditions. Today's MP, Nada Lazic, has only informed Parliament's president that he will not attend the session. We move to a decision on points 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. I'm putting the draft medical law to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – no one, with abstentions, voted five MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Both MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to the title above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 1 of the amendment was tabled by the MPs' group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs of the Social Democrats League Group, Vojvodina, proposed an amendment to Article 1 and the addition of Articles 1a and 1b. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of Parliament Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted the name above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was tabled by the MPs' group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the above members of the 3rd and Article 3rd Amendment, MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment was tabled by the MPs' group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the 4th amendment, MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 5th and 5th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 6th and 6th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The National MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted the title of Article 7 and Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 7 of the amendment was tabled by the MPs' group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group of the SRS has submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the 8th Amendment, MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the 9th Amendment, MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the 12th amendment, MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 13th and 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the 14th amendment, MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 15th and 15th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 15th amendment was submitted by the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 15th amendment was submitted by the MP group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 16th and 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 16th Amendment was submitted to the MP group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the 17th Amendment, MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 18th amendment was submitted by the SNS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Single Serbia parliamentary group submitted the 18th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted together to the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the 20th and Article 20th amendments, MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted a parliamentary group to the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the 21st Amendment, MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Both MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted the title above Article 22 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 24th and 24th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 24th amendment was submitted by the DS Parliamentary Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 25th and 25th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted an amendment to Article 25. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by five MPs of the Parliament Group of Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of the title of Article 27 was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 27th Amendment was tabled by five MPs from the Parliament Group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 27th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of the title of Article 28 together was submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Four MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Eight MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 32nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment to which they propose the addition of the title of Article 35 was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 36th Amendment was submitted by four MPs of the Serbian Radical Party Group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted together to the 37th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Four MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 37th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Nine MPs of the Democratic Party Group submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the 40th Amendment, MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the 42nd amendment, MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the 43rd amendment, MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the 45th Amendment, MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted together to the 46th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the 47th amendment, MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group of the Democratic Party submitted to the 47th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the 48th amendment, MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposed to add members of 49th was submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 50th Amendment was brought together by MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 51st Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 51st Amendment was submitted by the MP group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 52nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 52nd Amendment was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the 53rd amendment, MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 54th Amendment was brought together by MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. A member of the 54th Amendment was submitted by the MP group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 55th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the 56th Amendment, MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted together to the 57th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted together to the 58th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 58th Amendment was submitted by the MP group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 59th Amendment was brought together by MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 59th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted together to the 60th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 60th Amendment was submitted by the MPs' group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 62nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 63rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of a member's name in 64 has been submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of the name of the 65th member was brought together by MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment, proposed to add the name of the 66th member, was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted together to the 67th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the 68th Amendment, MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Both MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to the 69th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 69th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 70th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs to the MPs' group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted together to the 71st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted together to the 72nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska jointly submitted to the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group "Social Democratic Party" submitted to the title above Article 74 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 75th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura, LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 76th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 77th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. At the title above Article 78, the amendment was filed by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 79th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 80th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Serbian Falling Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 80th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 80th Amendment was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Serbian Falling Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 80th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the 81st Amendment, the MP group has submitted enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura, LJupka Mihajlovska, submitted together to the 82nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 82 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment to which they propose the addition of the title of Article 83 was submitted by MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 84th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 85th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment, which is proposed to be added to Article 85, was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. At the title of Article 86, the amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. At the name of Article 87, the amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On behalf of the 88th Amendment, the parliamentary group has submitted enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 89th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 90th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 91st Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 92nd Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. At the name of Article 93, the amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group Enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 93rd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 94th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 94th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Rakonjac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment to which they propose adding the title of Article 95, the MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 96th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment was submitted by the parliamentary group to Article 97. That's enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. At the title of Article 98, the amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 99th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 100th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 101st Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 102, the amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 103rd amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 104, the amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina submitted together to Article 104 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 105th Amendment has been submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Representatives Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted to Article 105 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 106 of the amendment, the parliamentary group has submitted enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga proposed amendments to Articles 106, 108, 109, 110 and 111. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 107th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 108th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 109th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 110th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Representatives Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted to Article 112 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Dr. Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr. Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic jointly submitted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the amendment to Article 133. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Four MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to Article 138 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Four MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to Article 138 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on a bill on medical means in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 versus – one, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on medical means. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health care in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 versus – one, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Four MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group and joint MPs of the MP group submitted the amendment to the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Four MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Four MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group and joint MPs of the parliamentary group submitted to the amendment's second amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Four MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Four MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group and joint MPs of the MP group submitted to the same amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Four MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the amendment to Article 3. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare that there are four abstentions for – 143 against – four abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health care, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 versus – two, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the Assembly has adopted the draft law supplementing the Health Documentation and Records Act in the field of health care. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Financial Treaty of the Clinical Centres/C between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 142, against - no one, abstentioned - two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Financial Treaty of the Clinical Centres/C between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 140, against - no one, abstentioned - one, did not vote nine MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the votes of all MPs a bill confirming the Clinical Centre/C Financial Contract between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with a correction, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for -141, no one, with abstentions, is available. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with a correction, in general, by majority vote. National MP Branka Stamenković, at a session on 20 November 2017, at 11 o'clock and 18 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103, paragraph 8. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Alexander Chabrai, at a session on 20 November 2017, at 13 hours and 29 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Tatjana Macura, at a session on 20 November 2017, at 15 hours and 39 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 158(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, at a session on 20 November 2017, at 16 hours and 33 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the third session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017.
