ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22716	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Please repeat, since I had 130 present on the screen, and now there are 112 present, something is wrong. So, you can see in the hall how many MPs there are, please repeat again. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 132 MPs are present in the hall. Whether one of the presidents, and authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has been given by the Messenger of Marjan.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22717	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use today's right to ask the parliamentary question of the Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. Namely, citizens and citizens from Dragonjev, Ravna Sela, Bačko Dobro Polje, as well as Kućura from Sama village, meaning all the settlements in the Municipality of Vrbas, which use railway transport from the station in Dragonjevo complain about the low platform. With the introduction of modern trains whose platform is high, they are according to EU standards, the entry and exit of citizens is difficult, above all, for sick, for children and for old people. In December of last year, several sets of motor trains were introduced that traffic on the route from Somboro to Novi Sad via Vrbasa, which owns the stairs, but also in this case made it difficult to import passengers into trains. Trains that address the route from Subotica to Novi Sad via Vrbasa are modern and modern, but the problem is that their platforms are high and citizens are difficult to import especially from the station in Dragonjevo, there have also been cases of injury. What my fellow citizens, in the Vrbas municipality, is particularly annoying, is that the lifting material of the platform level has been standing on railway stations for years. For this reason I ask the Minister's question, when will the work be completed? My second question also relates to the regulation of train stations in Vojvodina, and above all in the Vrbas municipality, you can't help but think how far you've traveled by train that time has stopped on them. They are quite collapsed, the hygiene conditions are problematic, and more and more of our fellow citizens, above all, because trains are both modern and accurate and modern, travel by trains. For this reason, I ask the Minister's question, is the construction of a fast track in Belgrade – Budapest, is it also planned to renovate railway stations on this, above all, in Vojvodina? Of course, you'll agree with me that train stations, airports and bus stations are places where passengers intend to get the real impression of our beautiful country when they come. For this reason, I think it is necessary for me to get on this issue, and I hope that it will be within the framework of a project to build a fast track in Belgrade – Budapest, and also to renovate railway stations on this section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22718	The People's Messenger Slavisa Ristic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22719	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I refer the questions to the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic and the Government. Here, I am holding in my hand the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and I am asking Alexander Vukic and the Government, on the basis of which constitutional and legal powers and competencies have also been approved by the holders of judicial functions in Kosovo and Metohija, therefore, judges and prosecutors to integrate into so-called. The justice system, so-called The Republic of Kosovo and swear an oath to a war criminal named Hashim Thaci? Articles 112 and 123 accurately define constitutional powers both the President of the Republic and the Government. Those members and the whole constitution won't allow it. No one has the right either Alexander Vukic or the Government to violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. May we, Madam Chairman, may we, gentlemen of the People's Parliament allow such a drastic violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Imagine what kind of confusion as a state and as a people to experience when the holders of judicial functions, therefore, judges and prosecutors in Kosovo and Metohija for the other day, as far as I can tell, are actually the people who have sworn an oath in this house, in this parliament before the president of the National Assembly of Serbia where they have sworn allegiance and loyalty to the Constitution and the laws of this country, swear before a war criminal for whom this country and precisely these judicial authorities still have an official warrant, a charge of the murder of five Serb police officers. The second question I want to ask also concerns Alexander Vukic and Mark Djuric, what victory does ten zeros win in the separatist elections in Kosovo and Metohija? Where did the Serbian people win? Is the victory of the state of Serbia and the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija to deny the constitutional right of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to choose their authorities, local authorities under the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia and to force them to participate in separatist elections, separatist authorities from Pristina? Is winning and is that the reason for the celebration and the joy of winning the so-called victory? The Serb list, which was defeated by the men who brought war criminals, Hashim Thaci and Ramush Haradinaj to power? So, just by their voices they became so-called. President of the Republic of Kosovo, Prime Minister, so-called Kosovo. Is that really something to celebrate? Imagine a situation where Madrid, the Spanish government and the Spanish people would rejoice and celebrate the victory of a "Spanish list" in Catalonia that would win the separatist elections in Catalonia. I just want to end by saying that both this Parliament and this Assembly have an obligation under the Constitution to initiate a procedure to resolve both the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for a drastic violation of the Constitution and that is our obligation as MPs, as well as your obligation as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, I will just say that I am really sorry that I was obviously right when I held a transparency in the inauguration of the president, namely Alexander Vukic here in this House of the National Assembly together with a group of MPs – I am not a traitor to the president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22720	The word is Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22721	Thank you, President. I asked my question, and I'm asking that question today, because I didn't get an answer on June 30th of this year, and it was about the damage of the AP Vojvodina, and it was about NIS or "Naftagas". Is it also when the Government, I am now asking the question of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic – did the Serbian Government also consider and what measures did it take for information on the need for damage to the AP Vojvodina, based on the investments of the people of Vojvodina in the construction of "NIS" and other parts of the territory of the AP Vojvodina, with the conclusions of the AP Vojvodina Assembly sent to the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 29 October 2014, one day after the information with the conclusions was adopted by the AP Vojvodina Assembly? The assembly of the AP Vojvodina on 29 October 2014 requested that 55% of the action capital of the Republic of Serbia in NIS be transferred to the AP Vojvodina and local self-government on the territory of Vojvodina as compensation for investments invested by Vojvodina citizens in the construction of "Oftagas" and other parts of the NIS. Nearly three years, so, since 2014, the government of the Republic of Serbia has not declared itself aware of the document, which referred the most representative body to the two million citizens of the AP Vojvodina. I ask Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, will the problem of damage to the AP Vojvodina on the government's agenda, as regards NIS? Vojvodjanski "Naftagas" is centralized and as NIS is placed in reserve with all the oil reserves and everything he owned then, the Russian company in exchange for two unfulfilled promises, which is that Kosovo will be independent and we will get the southern flow. I ask Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, did the Republic of Serbia get anything from that until today? The second question is I ask Minister Branko Ruzic and I ask him – did he vote in favour of the payment of 100 million dinars from the Belgrade budget reserve at the last cabinet session? This payment is explained by Belgrade's need to carry out obligations amid a reduced volume of income from the city. To disbelieving is the fact that in the richest environment in Serbia, which is Belgrade, they approve this large payout from the budget reserve, while most local self-government, barely financially survives. Minister Ruzic would have to know that Belgrade is in total debt to all local self-government in Serbia with more than 78%. Also, since Ruzic's headquarters in Belgrade is certainly familiar with the large works now being done in Belgrade's territory, so I wonder if other parts of Serbia are doing the same thing, what is being done in Belgrade? My LSV party wants Minister Ruzic to answer why such large payments from the budget reserve are needed in Belgrade and not in other villages or cities in the Republic of Serbia, Alibunar, Senti, Knic or Priboj? Are all citizens of the Republic of Serbia the same under the Constitution and do all citizens of the Republic of Serbia have the same right to budget reserves or do only citizens of Belgrade have the right to do so?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22722	The word is Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22723	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens, I ask the first question to the government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic and the singing Minister Ivica Dacic. What is the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, when we heard yesterday a statement by Mr Brian Hoyt Ji, that Serbia will not be able to sit on two, three, four chairs as long as it has been sitting for the past six years, a clear and unequivocal DS policy for 27 years, EU membership and respect for European values. So I ask the government to answer what is the foreign policy of this national government of the Republic of Serbia? Second question, I'm asking Minister Branko Ruzic for local self-government. In the Law on Local Self-Government, Article 85 clearly and unequivocally states under which conditions local self-government is disbanded. The first condition for this is the failure to adopt the budget and statutes of some local self-government. The second condition is that the local parliament does not occupy 90 days. The third is, if he does not elect the president of the municipality and the municipal council within a month, from the constitution. The position of the 1st member of the 85th municipality of Smederevska Palanka is not respected. For more than 100 days, the local parliament headed by the SNS has not sat down in Smederjevska Palanca for two years. Why did the government and why did Minister Ruzic not call local elections or introduce temporary measures in Smederjevska Palanca? I also ask the question to Minister Ruzic, as we know that a member of 86 clearly states who is forming a provisional body, and the provisional body appoints the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the Minister for Local Self-Government, respecting the parity of the parliamentary groups at the time of the disbandment. In the Smederjevska Palanca, there are three committee groups. The DS Committee Group of 14 committees, the SPS Committee Group of only five committees and the SNS Committee Group, for which you no longer know how many committee members. She was 27, 22, so she clearly puts the parity to be maintained in the temporary organ. The next question I ask the prosecutor's office, when they will quote and respond to numerous applications by the citizens of Smederjev Palanka. I don't want to go into any small detail here and demean this house as did the representatives of the SNS and the prime minister himself on the day he formed the government, but I will only read two things that are truly scandalous, which the Smederjev Palace has done. It's that the consulting agency went to 270 thousand dinars each month. The agency from Mladenvec, Radojka Janjanin, Mladenovac, in one year three million and 240 thousand dinars went to the agency and another account, to watch out for this, nine bills of 50,000 dinars were paid in butchers, which is 450 thousand dinars, totaling four million dinars. I really don't want to read any further, and there's a lot more, so I'm asking the D.A.'s office, and when the D.A.'s gonna respond to these allegations, we'll see. The next question I ask the Minister of Youth and Sports, and you respected Parliament Speakers, how is it possible that SNS MP Ostoja Mijailovic can be elected at the same time as the President of the Basketball Club "Partizan"? Is it then not a conflict of interest, whether the SNS wants to break all the laws, as you've been doing for the past few years? I ask the last question to the government, why has the privatisation of Bukovica Banja been annulled, why has the incompetent progressive rule in Arangelovac not done anything for the last three years, why has there not been a single building permit issued, and could it be returned to the protection of the entire park because all the citizens of Arangelovac who have not been afraid of the SNS in Arangelovac, who has been running the Arangelovec for seven years?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22724	Who was the question asked? You know that the Assembly, Your Honor, since you asked me a question, the Assembly has no jurisdiction over the question you asked me, but the agency. Therefore, when someone addresses the agency, she responds whether or not she is in conflict of interest. I have often done so, and I have never been in conflict of interest before, and other MPs will do so. You know that, this was clean because of the public. The word is Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22725	Thank you. I would ask the first question "The Ways of Serbia", and the question is whether it will continue to build all the roads of local, or regional roads in southeastern Serbia, because wherever it goes in any part of Serbia, it is. In particular, the road is now ending through the municipality of Srljig, a road that is very important for all those who reach Nis, via the airport of Niš. The way is done, the length of the road is 14km, and that "Serbia's Ways" is doing really amazing. Not only is it working in the municipality where I come from, but it is done in other municipalities, such as the municipality of Bela Palanka, Književec, Soko Banja. In all these municipalities, roads are being made, which means that in this way "Serbia's Ways" are really working overtime. I can invite all the people who watch this session of ours to come on weekends, come to Svrlig, visit the Old Mountain, which is a resort that is very beautiful, which has a great chance and where there are a great number of quality products, both credential cheese, whitemuse, honey, and that's why this part of the trip is working. I have repeatedly thanked myself, and I will now thank the Ways of Serbia and the Ministry of Transport, President Vukic, who all insists that as much as possible and that much work is done in the southeast of Serbia compared to the period before. Otherwise, what's important for all of us, because that part of the road that's finished 14 km will be much shorter to the Old Mountain, and I urge all people to come to the southeast of Serbia, to come to visit the Old Mountain, a resort on the Old Mountain, and thus to see the beauty of our region, because from this place, I, as a folk MP and as a representative of the people, always invite all people to see the beauty of those who have not seen it, which is in southeastern Serbia. I would also ask the Corridors, and my friend Zoran Babic - will the construction continue, or will the intensity of the works increase, because as we see the highway to Sofia, the highway to Greece is done with full intensity? Back in the 20-30s, something was starting to work, but it wasn't over. Now we see how it's supposed to work, how it's supposed to work. In this way, I would also thank the Corridors of Serbia, Director Zoran, once again, because it really works the way it should be. One question to the Ministry of Agriculture – will there be a large number of applications from young agricultural producers, those up to 40 years old, those who want to deal with agriculture and have these applications been made, or have these requests been paid? It is very important to pay off, precisely because I know that a number of useful, i.e. requirements that have been sought by local self-government, so I think it's good because investing in young people, investing in agriculture, is a great opportunity for us. Another question from the Ministry of Finance and Agriculture. We have a law that was passed in 1992, it's the Law on the return of mornings and pastures to villages to use, because we know that there are large areas of land that are not put into service precisely because of that law. I ask the competent Ministry of Finance – will the process of changing this law and allowing the land located in rural local communities to be put into operation, so that it can be built there, that it can be done, because it can only be done to pasture cattle and to build ponds? Another question for the Ministry of Agriculture – will the next period and budget for 2018 continue with investments in the agriculture programme employment of young people, in rural local communities, such as investment...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22726	Time. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22727	I thank the president. I ask my first question, i.e. to all ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, to all directors of services and agencies, the Academy of Governments, I would like to know the situation with jobs on 1 January 2017, 1 June 2017, and today, October 24, 2017, and in this sense I ask that all ministers and those who were without portfolios on 1 January 2017, 1 June and the newly established ministries and new ministers of unemployment and, of course, those with portfolios and Prime Ministers and all that I have listed, that the delivery of the systems of jobs in the bodies of which the elders are, I also ask, in the framework of these systems, to clearly indicate to me what jobs are filled in the framework of systematicised jobs, and which are also unful of each of these dates that I listed, so on 1 January, 1st and today, on 24th of October 2017? I also ask them and ask them to answer me and write down all the employees in their organs how much work experience does it require, actually a regulation in the systemization, so every employee compared to the filled seats? Also, I want the same information to be obtained for officials, which means the elders of the authorities, or ministers, directors of all offices, agencies, academia, government service, state secretaries, too. My next question is to refer to the Minister of Finance, Mr Vujović, and ask that the written answer be sent to me on the question – how much agreement did he give for employment in 2016 and 2017, starting on 1 January 2017, with today's day on 24 October 2017? And to answer me for any consent to additional, i.e. new employment in both ministries and services, offices, agencies, academias and all authorities of the Government and also, the consent he has given to employment in public enterprises and public utility companies from local self-government units, so in all municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia, and in relation to the autonomous provinces of Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija. So I want to get information from Minister Vujovic for whose employment he gave consent, individually and individually, that information is certainly of public importance in 2016 and 2017. I must say that I was inspired by this during the last debate, Minister Branko Ruzic, when he was probably in one clumsy attempt to justify the fact that from the current budget reserve to allocate additional funds for additional employment, which is not in line with the Budgetary System Act, I was trying to prove it, and, he inspired me to get these very important issues directly from the elders of all authorities and government services. And in this sense, I am making a commitment and asking Minister Vujovic to further answer my question – how much so far are the funds and for what purposes, or which direct budget beneficiaries from the current budget reserve are defined by additional funds for additional employment and without budget rebalances? Everything refers to the period in 2017, as Minister Ruzic said it has already happened several times. The last question, which could be the form of a request for a constructive proposal, questions from the National Assembly President, Mrs Gojkovic. Mrs. Gojkovic, I would simply ask you and here I say, would you be kind enough to have a decent time to finish our work today, as the Rules of Procedure says at 6:00 p.m. in principle, to do the same tomorrow, so that on Thursday, the last Thursday of the month, we can finally get the conditions to do so and to have the ministers and members of the government, the Prime Minister, appear before us, and that we finally have a chance to ask them a question, which the Rules of Procedure allows us to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22728	Time. Today's day on the jurisdiction of time depends on the proposals for issues and the addition of the agenda. It's not up to me. There are 101 points, this depends on today's work, on the MPs. As for tomorrow, that we can finish at that time, and the Rules of Procedure are very clear when last Thursday, when the government is bound to come here, means in the course of the session, it is impossible to finish the session before this Thursday, so we certainly have a question to ask. I don't see that dilemma at all that it's possible in the Rules of Procedure to interpret it differently, unless everyone would give up the investment of amendments to the bill, which I really doubt. So it's very clear what we're going to do Thursday from 16:00 to 1900 hours. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22729	Dear citizens of Serbia, it is my duty, on behalf of more than 100,000 workers in Serbia who have some kind of outstanding claims on the basis of executive rulings that are due them for unpaid, earned earnings, unpaid severance payments or for an unrelated job internship, to ask on their behalf certain questions to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministers of Business and Finance. The first and most important question is – when will at least 100,000 workers in Serbia, with the unmistakable obligations of social enterprises, receive what is owed by the executive rulings for labour claims, given that the representatives of the current government are on several occasions for these six years, the Serbian Progressive Party authorities have promised that these claims will be met? The second question is: how many workers have died so far, not expecting the payout of earned incomes in companies that have failed in robbery privatisations, which no one has ever been responsible for, even though the Serbian Progressive Party has promised to fight crime and corruption? The third question – do the competent finance and economy ministries have a final proposal for rules to resolve this issue and is there a payment plan in the upcoming period? The fourth question -- where did 17 billion dinars end up, pay attention, 17 billion dinars, which were planned in the 2014 budget for the backlogs of workers, and have never been paid to them? The fifth question - can part of these claims be regulated by the write-off of debts these workers have towards municipal enterprises, according to their municipal debts for electricity or heating or something else? So, if the state is unable to pay off their profits, can it at least write off their debts, because numerous families have fallen into overindebted debt and become social cases in the meantime since people have lost their jobs in robbery privatisation? The sixth question - can we order these foreign investors who receive our budget money to create new jobs in Serbia, at least 10% of the new employees on our spending in their foreign companies to be ordered to be people over 50 years old, who have lost their jobs and who simply can't find a job anymore? And finally, who, if not the Government of the Republic of Serbia, will take care of all this and protect workers in Serbia. To prove to you, in addition to all that I am saying and asking the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I will only list a few documents that support what I am saying, which is that in the last six years the authorities of the Serbian Progressive Party have, leading officials of this party have promised to resolve these issues at least five times. So on December 10, 2012, Ivica Kotic, the current head of the cabinet of state President Aleksandar Vukic promised to resolve this issue at a meeting with the unions. Here is another evidence, that the current Prime Minister, Igor Mirovic, in his time as economy minister, also pledged to pay off workers' claims. Then we have an extremely important and valuable document that speaks of the 2014 Budget Law, where it is foreseen in the height I mentioned to you, of 17 billion, that these claims will be paid, which have never been paid. We further have one very important evidence signed by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Industry Dragan Stevanovic, that the legal regulations that need to solve the problem of applicants, are withdrawn from the procedure, i.e. that you gave up paying off these claims from the workers and here's how your ministry confirms that it's given up on all of this. What is very important, as early as 2012, I am here showing you the Government's regulation to write down all workers who have been damaged in robbery privatisations and that the government urgently resolves how to pay off their claims, and we, here, have already had the full six years of the Serbian Progressive Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia and on several occasions a large one, so to say, of cheating on Serbian citizens who have been robbed in robbery privatisations, that their receipts will ever be paid. Last time, Aleksandar Vukic promised former workers of several failed companies from Nis that unsettled profits would be paid by the end of 2016. This is the end of 2017 and Serbian citizens should hear and know – everything the Serbian Progressive Party ever tells them, it is a simple lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22730	Who did you ask question number two?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22731	The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22732	They are not in charge of that question, so I ask, because the form of Article 287 must be fulfilled. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22733	Then give it to the Minister of State.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22734	It's impossible for me to address such a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22735	Then who's in charge?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22736	There's a word for Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22737	Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask Alexander Vukic, the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic of Serbia. My question is did he finally realize he couldn't sit on two chairs? I see that yesterday and today in the evening, many from the government are nervously responding, saying that US diplomat Brian Hoyt Ji allegedly attacked Serbia. He attacked Serbia by saying that no one can be a balancer and that he cannot sit on two chairs, so he can play friendly relations with the Russian Federation, on the one hand, and the European Union and the United States, on the other hand. And that's exactly what the Serbian Radical Party has been saying to Alexander Vukic and before him, to those who also thought they could play Joseph Broz Tito on two tracks. There were such ideas in the Democratic Party of Serbia, like, we can go with everyone, we'll be east to west and west to east. Now, that, however, can't. And Brian Hoyt Ji has only made clear and loud what all other US officials have been saying clearly at meetings with the state summit of the Republic of Serbia for years. But I guess now he's on a level that can be attacked. Do you think Michael Pens said something different, that this is something that Brian Hoyt Ji's independent thought is? He must be some important screw in the US administration, so he has now invented hot water, or he has set Serbia a condition that others do not normally set. Of course that is not the case and it is a fundamental question in Serbia – will we finally open our eyes? America tells you that the condition for joining the EU is not only a denial of Kosovo and Metohija, it is not just a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. You have to run politics, have a single policy with the EU and, he says, excellent examples are Croatia, which has put the EU above all, and Montenegro has also shown this through entering the NATO Pact. In other words, these are the conditions expected of Serbia. Do not think that Serbia will be able to pass without meeting these conditions, as the EU expects candidate countries to run a single and foreign and defence policy. It's something that's completely obvious and completely clear. Will someone finally respond to this interference and that they claim that Serbia is openly interfering in our internal affairs and say they do not understand why it is necessary for Serbia to give diplomatic status to Russian representatives in Nis? What do they need to be clear about? Here, says Vulin - they're removing our right to decide. Well, where do you think you have the right to decide? If Americans had led their foreign policy by letting everyone decide something, especially states that don't consider insignificant and banana states, do you think they'd be here today? No, their foreign policy is precisely based on their decision-making, and that is what is expected of Alexander Vukic. I'm surprised that even in the wake of this debate about a monument rising to Zoran Djindjic, he didn't realize how those who think they can sit on two chairs, who think or think in a moment that they can decide something, because it's hard for the Americans to think and assess that he's worth dead but alive. So, once again, the SRS asks the Prime Minister and the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, did he finally realize that there is no policy of sitting on two chairs, but that it must finally be defined whether Serbia will turn to Russia or give up national interests and turn to the EU?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22738	Time. Thank you. I will also refer the issue to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Lapsus lingvee, you were wrong, but I understood that the Prime Minister should, too. Thank you. I understand, I'm following the session. Is anyone else signing up or are we moving on? The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22739	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, news came out a few days ago that several responsible persons of the Public Enterprise "Vračar business space" had been arrested on suspicion that this company had been damaged by hundreds of millions of dinars. This news has been broadcast by many media, therefore, both printed and electronic. I have a lot of articles in front of me from different media portals, so Blic and Mondo and Telegraph, not to mention now. In any case, almost all the media reported the news and the news caused great attention, both to the public and to the citizens. News trail turned out to be a MUP, i.e. Belgrade police have filed criminal charges against five former directors and senior executives of the company, therefore, companies for the management of "Varcar's business space" and otherwise senior DS officials. Remember, on several occasions, we brought all this information to the public and before the assembly booths. Why is this important? It is important that the members of the party for years destroyed this Belgrade municipality and destroyed the budget of the Vracar municipality, but also destroyed all public enterprises and institutions whose founder So Vračar is the result and the authorities are disastrous debts, losses, minuses and everything else. My questions are specifically addressed to the MUP. It specifically reads – what is the qualification of criminal acts in this case? Secondly, and more importantly, will the investigation also cover the political factors of the former municipal government in Vjerar, as I said, in the DS? Why is it important for the investigation to include the other former officials of the Vrachar municipality? In order to determine whether these directors did so on their own, in order to obtain material benefits, or whether they might have done so on someone's orders, for example, by order. municipal officials, senior DS officials, all in turn close to tycoon Dragan Gilas. What's good, what's positive, is that this affair, now it's obvious, is getting its epilogue. That's what gives hope that other affairs of the yellow company will get their epilogues, I mean the court epilogues, and all of Gilas's other affairs, and there are countless of them. Let's just remind ourselves of an affair that hasn't received a full epilogue yet, an affair around underground containers, when City Cleanness is damaged by more than 100 million dinars. Setting up 1,800 containers cost about sixm euros. It was a purchase. But after that, the installation cost about 5m euros, and they collapsed quickly, so the current city government had to invest another million euros to revitalise the situation. Therefore, the public procurement procedure, delivery and installation of underground containers was made without a decision of the PDO Management Board "City Cleanness". Police have found in the investigation that the state in this case has been damaged in total by 169,299,000 dinars. To remind ourselves of the other affairs, the Bulevar affair. And she didn't get a final epilogue, even though some were arrested, like. The white man, you remember, is the closest co-worker of tycoon Dragan Gilas. On September 12th, the criminally off-quicked grand jury reached a solution confirming the prosecutor's indictment of organised crime, Bjelic and others were arrested in April 2014 on suspicion that they had damaged the Belgrade City budget of 642m dinars in those abuses. We mentioned a few days ago and an affair about kindergartens and Altina, when Altina became the centre of Belgrade, became more expensive than Theasia, when the city had to pay 29,000 euros a month for rent on Altina due to a harmful contract. To compare only, the amount of 1,200 euros in Vozdovac, in Mladenov, in the Old Town, is 4,000 euros and on the Altina, 23,000 euros. And, another one, that same Dragan Gilas had to go public, so he says – the first interview between Dragan Gilas for "The Sunday," he says, "We have to stop Belgrade's collapse". Since he's not ashamed, he's the only one who doesn't save Belgrade. Just don't let him stop Belgrade's further collapse.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22740	Time. I would like to inform you that today he was prevented from attending the session of Ambassador Alexander Chotric. He was the only one to notify the Assembly. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda. We move on to the adoption of the minutes from previous sessions, in accordance with Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the minutes of the 10th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session, held on 17 July 2017. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote – 41 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 10th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. I am voting on the minutes of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 19 and 20 July 2017. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, abstentioned – one, did not vote – 36 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. I am voting on the 11th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session, held on 20 July 2017. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – no one, with abstentions – has. I find that the National Assembly adopted the 11th Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. I am voting on the minutes of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 24th, 25th and 28th August 2017. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, v – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. I am voting on the minutes of the 12th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 2 October 2017. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, v – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 12th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the agenda is established, we'll consider the emergency procedures. The government has proposed that the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for a law on dual education be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am concluding the vote: for – 134, v – 14 abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Preschool Education and Education Act be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – four abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fundamental Education and Education Act be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – seven, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on secondary education and education be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – three, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the Convention on Nuclear Safety be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – two, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the Joint Convention on the Safety of Fuel Management and the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management is put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 132 versus – two abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The President of the National Assembly has proposed that the draft decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee be put on the agenda, as an emergency procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. On the agenda of the National Assembly, he proposed that the draft decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee be put on the agenda, as of 18 October 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The SNS parliamentary group has proposed that, as an emergency procedure, the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 135, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The SPS parliamentary group proposed that the draft decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law supplementing the Health Documentation Act and the health records in the area of health should be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft medical law be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic proposed that, by emergency procedure, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Local Elections be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dejan Nikolic suggested that the draft law supplementing the Law on the basis of the education and education system be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric suggested putting on the agenda after an urgent procedure - a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs of the Dveri group have proposed that the urgent procedure be put on the agenda - a proposal for a declaration on the protection of Serbian language. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MPs of the Dveri Group have proposed that an emergency procedure should be put on the agenda of a declaration on the protection of Cyrillic and the preservation of the literary and cultural treasures of the Serbian language created on the Latin. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs of the Dveri group proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda for a declaration of honour to the citizens of Serbia of non-Serb nationalities killed for the country. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. National MP Miladin Ševarlic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms and products from GMOs, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 5 May this year. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22741	Thank you. Dear Presidents, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, last week I proposed a roof declaration on genetically modified organisms and products of genetically modified organisms and did not receive majority support for its adoption. This time I'm taking the opportunity to remind you again of some facts regarding the subject matter of the declaration. The declaration of genetically modified organisms is a text that I wrote as the first, and then the second text written by Green Serbia, which was adopted in Serbia in 136 municipalities and cities or over four-fifths of local self-government on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, not taking into account the territory of KIM, where the declaration has not been implemented. In the territory of 136 municipalities and cities, which adopted the text of the declaration, lives 224 MPs in this current assembly. If we are MPs, who draw demographic credibility from municipalities and cities in whose territory we live and whose citizens we should represent here, and not just act the way the party leaders, either the positional or the opposition speak, then we should be safe and responsible for what they have proposed and adopted the committees in so many local self-governments. I suggested the same text that was adopted in municipalities and cities. The only difference with that text is, let me read, Article 3 of the proposed roof declaration. It reads – The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia undertakes that in the event that the Government of the Republic of Serbia submits a proposal for amending and supplementing the 2009 GMO law or a proposal for a new GMO law, in order to authorise the import of cultivation, processing and traffic of GMOs on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it will make a decision and implement a referendum with a question, quote – are you for or against imports, cultivation, processing and traffic of GMOs and products from the territory of the Republic of Serbia? I received the opinion of the Prime Minister, who was negative, in which she explained all the points of the proposed roof declaration. She was the only one who did not explain this point 3 that required the unimpeached right of citizens to declare in the referendum what they would benefit from their food security, not only for their own sake, but also for their children and future heirs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22742	Thank you. Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs of the Dveri group suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on the genocide of an independent state of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22743	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, I don't know what time it is to try to enter the agenda after 70 years in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is the Resolution on the genocide of an independent state of Croatia against Serbs, Jews, Roma during World War II. Please, if there is anything disputed in the fact that the Devere parliamentary group is proposing this resolution, that we agree that we withdraw the proposal, that you, from the ruling parties, propose a resolution like this, and we support you to finally bring this most important state home to a resolution on genocide that happened in NDH. Don't reject such a significant resolution just because it came from the opposition's ranks, and you from the government didn't remember to propose it. In order not to further explain, I will just read the text, and you as MPs with your security and citizens of Serbia as a whole have the opportunity to hear what can be disputed here, not to bring one of these resolutions to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia - the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia delivers a resolution on the NDH genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II, under 1. – that the crimes of Ustasha against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II in NDH were designed and planned genocide as defined by the Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of Genocide adopted by the UN General Assembly on 9 December 1948, that only in the Jasenovo system of Croatian concentration camps for the extermination of Serbs, Jews and Roma and non-insects were tortured, robbed, raped and then killed by NDH 700 thousand Serbs, 23 thousand Jews and 80,000 Roma, only because they belonged to another nation, religion or race. That NDH was the only country during World War II where concentration camps existed for the extermination of children in Stari Gradišca, Jesenovac, Ustica, Jablanac, Jastrebarski, Rivers near Jastrebarski, Gornji Rijeka in Križevci and Lobograd, and that, according to further unfinished studies, 42,791 Serbian children, 5,737 Roma and 3,710 Jewish children died. That the crime of genocide in NDH by its proportions is equal to the holocaust that Nazi Germany committed against the Jews. Under 5, during the implementation of this genocide, a large number of Serbs were forced to change their national and spiritual historical identity for the sake of biological survival and to give up their Orthodox faith and to accept Roman Catholicism under duress and death threat. Are there any issues here, dear colleagues?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22744	Thank you. Time. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs of the Dveri Group have proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22745	Dear citizens of Serbia, above all respected by our oldest fellow citizens who have been robbed by the SNS, the SPS, by reducing pensions in the last three years, there exists in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the opposition and there is a proposal to return to you in some way all of what these current owners have robbed you during the previous period. In the second bill, which will be here next as a proposal to determine the agenda, I'll talk about how you can get back what's been robbed in the last three years. Here I want to say something else through this proposed law, which is that the government of our oldest fellow pensioners has sinned twice. The first way is by reducing pensions, not by 10%, but by up to 25%, how much you cut pensions to pensioners in Serbia, but by doing another very controversial and problematic thing. In Article 80, you have deleted that provision that clearly states that the pension level at the annual level must be aligned with the cost of living, i.e. the rise in prices and inflation in the state of Serbia. So, not only did you rob the pensioners, you double-taxed them and robbed them, making it impossible for a full three years for their pensions to be in line with the cost of living and inflation. I would like to say one very important thing to us, that this bill is proof of what the Dvora was actually talking about before the elections, a social partnership agreement with the Association of Pensioners' Unions of Serbia and the Association of Retired Military Persons of Serbia, with which we have jointly proposed this law in order to hear the voice of pensioners in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and to be protected in some way from the robbery of the current SNS and SPS authorities. So it's not enough, gentlemen of the authorities, to just increase your pensions to those you robbed in the meantime. It is necessary to give them back what has been robbed in the past three years and it is necessary to return this provision of the law which obliges you to coordinate your pension level at an annual level with the growth and cost of life, i.e. inflation in the state of Serbia. I simply don't think there are any SNS and SPS voters who wouldn't support this proposal, and I'm sure this is an entirely reasonable proposal in the interest of our oldest citizens, and you now have a word to refuse or support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22746	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MPs of the Dveri Group have proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point - Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22747	Dear citizens of Serbia, it is an extraordinary honor and pleasure for me that you have now had the opportunity to see the ruling majority in the Serbian Parliament refuse to pay you back what she robbed you when she reduced your pension and refused to coordinate pensions with the cost of living. It is very important to see that, in addition to false care for pensioners, in which the PUPS is preceded as a false retirement party and the entire ruling majority, in fact, does not want to support such a concrete proposal to help pensioners. This is also the case with this bill, the final suspension of the validity of the temporary arrangement of the way in which pensions are paid. I ask a very simple question – what is this temporary arrangement of how pensions that lasts for three years? It is these days that three years are being completed as you rob a pensioner in Serbia, and therefore the pensioners on Thursday, October 26th, at 11.00 p.m., at Nikola Pasic Square in Belgrade are protesting against your authority, which I absolutely support and, of course, will respond to as I have done, because I believe that pensioners have been robbed from your side. So, when are they going to stop applying the Interim Retirement Act? When are you gonna stop this pensioner robbery, when are you gonna give them back what was robbed? We here, in this legislative proposal, not only propose to stop the validity of this looting and thieving law that kidnaps pensioners, but we also propose how in the coming years, for as long as the robbery lasted and the return of what was robbed of the pensioners. We also cited concrete ways to get to the funding that is being provided that part of the funding in the budget that will return to pensioners in the coming years what has been robbed in the previous three years. With this in mind, it is my obligation to point out that I received a large number of calls from the pensioner from Serbia who were offended and humiliated by this announcement of an increase in pension from January 1, 2018, for the reason that they did not ask for anything to increase them, but to return to them what was taken from them three years ago and to return to them what had been robbed for these three years, because the pensioner who had, for example, worked for the pension of 35,000 to 40,000 dinars will now come out with all your increases on pensions that were still less than that pension that he had before you started to take pensions in Serbia without talking about the hundreds of euros or thousands of euros you owe them, and that you robbed them for these three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22748	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MPs of the Dveri Group have proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2017 election process, from the day of the presidential elections, to the day of publication of the provisional results of the elections at 99.9% of polling stations.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22749	Thank you. Serbian citizens on several occasions could hear the ruling regime that Serbia's elections are regular, fair and fair. If, gentlemen of the government, it is so, I don't see why you've been refusing to put on the agenda for a year now of survey committees that are about just determining the truth about whether the elections were fair and fair. If you had nothing to hide, you would have put this on the agenda, you would have formed a assembly survey committee, you would have proved that there was no electoral theft, and I think it's clear to every citizen of Serbia that when you refuse to form this assembly polling committee, you admit that you stole in the elections. So, you admit that you stole from the elections and I'm glad that the citizens of Serbia can see it now and hear it, because there is no other reason why you would refuse to form one such polling committee. Now, it's very interesting what we've put here as topics to deal with this committee of inquiry. Examples work, freedom of the media and equal treatment of all electoral participants on the media. There are no more political shows in Serbia, no more dealing with authorities and opposition and practically on most major Belgrade televisions with national frequencies, you can no longer see anyone from the opposition. It is the party televisions of SNS, such as Pink or Studio B, while they can never be visited by anyone from the opposition. Here's what article 50 says. Law on the selection of Members of Parliament. It says – in accordance with the provisions of Article 1 of this Article, and pursuant to Article 5(2) of this Act, emissions are organised to ensure public consultation of electoral lists and candidates on those lists. Does anyone in this country remember that Aleksandar Vukic faced anyone publicly, stopped as a candidate for Serbia's president? Of course not, because Alexander Vukic has been running away from a direct TV duel with anyone in the opposition for six years. Recently, he promised to go out on a direct duel with five opposition leaders and of course he would never go out on that duel, because everything Alexander Vukic said he lied about. He lied that he would go to a direct TV duel and such a TV duel, as you see respected Serbian citizens, is no longer as many as six years old as Aleksandar Vukic is in power. Of course, it's not the only thing. He also has the responsibility of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. She is a personal witness and all the heads of Parliament's groups that I asked for the establishment of the National Assembly's Supervisory Board to monitor the election control and that this Supervisory Board was not formed and that this assembly had no opportunity to monitor how you steal elections and how you come and remain in power through electoral theft.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22750	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Parliamentarians of the Dveri Group suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee, in order to identify the facts and circumstances related to events during the 2016 election process, from the day of the call of the republic's elections until the date of publication of the final results of the elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22751	Thank you. Well, here, it's really important when something you say publicly in the direct transmission of the National Assembly sessions turns out to be true. So, you just admitted that you were involved in the election theft and that you should not form a assembly survey committee to examine the regularity of the presidential elections in 2017. But here's a chance for you to get better and eventually prove that you didn't participate in the electoral theft and parliamentary elections last 2016. Here we propose a survey committee of the Assembly to examine all the electoral irregularities that followed the 2016 parliamentary elections. And here there's this very interesting, interesting fact that the president of the SNS parliamentary group Aleksandar Martinovic first submitted to this assembly a proposal for the establishment of an polling committee to investigate electoral regularities, and then believe it or not, respected citizens of Serbia, did not support either his own proposal, nor was he supported by his parliamentary group, nor by the ruling majority, and until today we have no assembly survey committee formed, because Aleksandar Martinovic realized that he would catch himself in the election theft, and that there is no reason to do so. That is why we are now proposing the establishment of such a assembly survey committee, and you will, of course, reaffirm by refusing this proposal that you are also guilty of electoral theft in 2016 and that you must not face an independent assembly survey committee that would investigate it. Because if you had no reason to be ashamed of this election theft or to hide it, you would, of course, support the formation of such a survey committee, participate with your representatives, prove that you were not involved in the electoral theft, but as soon as you refuse to do so, you actually admit that you did so. And what is particularly important is to say that if one single proof is sufficient that there were electoral thefts, electoral irregularities in the 2016 and 2017 elections, then this is the instructions of the Republic Election Commission to vote on KIM, which the Constitutional Court rejected as illegal and anti-constitutional. Therefore, an election process which is different from the electoral process carried out in the rest of the state territory cannot be conducted at KiM. Because, gentlemen, forwarders and socialists, you acknowledge that Kosovo is out of this country, that Kosovo is independent, if you do not conduct an identical electoral process on KIM, as well as on the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, only because of the anti-constitutional instructions on the vote in KIM elections were irregular and the elections were stolen. You know this well, and therefore you must not support the formation of a committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22752	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for the vote - 12, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs of the Dveri group suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22753	Dear fellow Members of the People, especially fellow MPs from the government, I know you will never support any proposal made by the Serbian Movement of the Dvora, here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but I would like to see how you will react when his Majesty Alexander Vukic ordered you to open the KIM dialogue here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Here is a reason for opening this dialogue, I propose a resolution on the protection of KIM in the state of Serbia, and here is whether you will listen to your party president, your Serbian President, your Prime Minister, your head of all secret security services in Serbia and open an internal dialogue on KIM here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For a year there has been no dialogue, since the formation of this call of the National Assembly you avoid having any special session here on the topic of KIM, because you know that there would be questions about why you are making anti-Constitutional Brussels agreements, why are you betraying and teaching KIM, why have you abolished the institutions of the Serbian state at KIM? Here is a chance to see if you will listen to Alexander Vukic and open the KIM dialogue in the National Assembly or if his call for dialogue is just another act, another farce, another lie, another fake that is so characteristic of one of the most famous drama artists in Serbia, Alexander Vukic. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22754	Are you done? Oh, no? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22755	Thank you, Chairman. I know this technique wants to break down when opposition MPs speak, it happens often. So our resolution speaks of basic things from the Serbian Constitution. One, that KIM is an integral and inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia. Two, that KIM is under occupation and that it should be notified to the international public. Under three, we need to end these devastating negotiations on Brussels and cancel all anti-constitutional Brussels agreements. Under four, the subject of KIM should be returned to the UN Security Council, where we have allies in Russia and China. Under five, it is necessary to meet those points of Resolution 1244 of the Security Council that neither government has sought since 1999 until today, which is the return of up to 1,000 members of Serbia's state personnel to the KIM territory. Under six, the re-forming of the KIM ministry that would deal with the support of Serbian citizens in KIM and the return of displaced people. What's the matter with this KIM resolution? Why can't she come to the agenda? What kind of dialogue is that if you are not allowed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to conduct a dialogue on KIM? So, what's the reason that Serbian citizens don't get a chance to hear what we MPs have to say about Kim? So, if you are defending Kosovo, vote for this resolution or you are then traitors to Kosovo.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22756	I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MPs of the Dveri Group proposed that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly on the Protection of Serbs in Dispersion and the region. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22757	Dear citizens of Serbia, I am pleased that you have now made sure that the ruling majority has rejected the proposal for a resolution on KIM, which actually abolished the dialogue... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22758	Please suggest the bill I read. Please be kind enough to follow some rules.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22759	Thank you, Chairman. I have no doubt that you will always interrupt me when my speech does not suit you, it is simply your task and your duty. I understand that, and I believe that the citizens of Serbia understand it more and more. So, not only did we propose a resolution on KIM, but we also propose this assembly declaration on the protection of Serbs in the region and dissipation. Respected citizens of Serbia, and that was something marketingly mentioned by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS, so it formed some expert commissions, so it will one day make such a decision, and here's the decision, here's the accompanying declaration. Here's a proposal for how to protect Serbia in the region and distract. What are we waiting for, gentlemen, forwarders and socialists? Why can't this proposal come to the agenda, why don't we all adopt together a declaration on the protection of Serbs in the region and the dispersion, which are at risk of property security and personal and collective rights and civil and religious rights and everything else in all former Yugoslav republics, and in particular a huge problem of assimilation, throughout Serbian distribution. Not only have you abolished the work of the Serb Assembly in the region and dissipation, but it would be a scandal if you could not put a simple proposal on the agenda of the National Assembly of Serbia, a simple declaration on the protection of Serbs in the region and dissipation, and your mouth is full of false stories about protecting Serbs in the region and dissipating, and you are doing absolutely nothing about it. Would you like concrete proof? Here, for several years now, you can't choose a man or a director of the Department of Diaspora at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where you once put a fake Diaspora Ministry and Serbs in a region in a basement. This is your relationship, which is unfortunately a scandalous attitude towards Serbs in the region and diaspora. I am truly prepared to withdraw this declaration, that you propose it, because I see that you do not want to support anything the opposition proposes and suggested by the Dvori. What kind of dialogue is that, then? What kind of National Assembly is this? What a democratic culture on your part, when in a year you have not supported any draft agenda proposed by the opposition. That means you're just actors and fakes and you're not ready for a serious democratic culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22760	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Jesic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. Does he want a word? No, I don't. I put the motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Jesic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Gordana Komic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people lost their lives. Does he want a word? No, I don't. I put the motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Vesna Marjanović suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dragoljub Micunovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on textbooks. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22761	Of course, I always welcome every advanced proposal, and I expect that something that was probably a failure, that the introduction of free textbooks was one significant step which brings us closer to a righteous society and to what is a civilizational fluid for many. In addition, it is also in our Constitution, in Article 71, and then it was so much easier to implement it, so many, to mention that something was positively done in the city, for example in Belgrade during the mayor of Gilas, there were free textbooks even through what we wanted to gradually make them one-grade, to be given for the whole class every year. But something very interesting happened. One of the first measures of the new coalition of the right-wing government was to abolish just free textbooks. When Margaret Thatcher came to power, she first brought a free cup of milk for students in breaks. It's the first sign of a neoliberal policy that Margaret Thatcher and, of course, American President Reagan have laid as the foundation of a future order. What makes me a little optimistic today is that, for this proposal, to introduce free textbooks, many of the current members of the government and the parliamentary majority voted in due time. So I can't assume that now they won't vote for what they voted for, propagated so many years before that, that they'll voluntarily take one step back from what they did when they ran the Educational Resor. I remember, with the best memories, how I went from the King to the King's office to the next, to propagate thesis on free textbooks. That is why I expect all MPs of the social democratic orientation to also vote for one proposal to make textbooks free of charge. But beyond that ideological problem, we have one constitutional problem. Article 171 states that basic education in Serbia is mandatory and free of charge. I pray that we respect the Constitution and that we do not resolve this issue through the Constitutional Court and declare this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22762	Thank you. Your time is up. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Natasa Vučković suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Natasa Vučković suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Court within a reasonable period of time. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be completed by the meeting – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I put the motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stanković suggested that the agenda be supplemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on textbooks. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Information and Media. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Water Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the House and Building Maintenance Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Real Estates. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Maja Vidinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law amending the Budgetary System Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22763	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about amending the Budgetary System Act, we're actually talking about abolishing and my appeal to discuss it, to put it on the agenda, and to talk about it being a devastating, discriminatory and wrong measure, so on. temporary employment bans, which extends year after year, as well as a reduction in the temporary pensions that become a permanent measure, and the competent minister and government of Serbia are telling citizens, particularly young people, that this fiscal consolidation is an ideology that is more important than life. I take every opportunity to tell you every time about one area and the citizens of Serbia who suffer for this kind of measure. I was talking about what's going on in the judiciary, mostly in the D.A. who doesn't have enough dactylographies and citizens' justice, because it takes longer. I was talking about math high school, where our best students, who we're all proud of, can't be educated and can't be taught by the best and most qualified professors, because they're the technological surpluses from other schools because of the ban on employment. So, it applies to everyone, it applies to a young scientist, a young artist, a young doctor, a young person who has defined herself to study and to stay in the country and naturally focus on some kind of interest that is directed at the state, but does not apply to party SNS activists in all possible areas. Every day, citizens witness something like that, and that's something that's inadmissible. They reacted to cultural people, from science, there is no area in society that does not suffer because of this measure and the incredible arrogance of the government that this measure extends from year to year, justifying the fiscal consolidation that has become the most important. So what's key and what I'd like you to think about is our shared responsibility and that we should actually talk about this measure and put it on the agenda, so we can talk about it. Serbian citizens each day suffer the consequences of this measure in the most brutal way possible. They can't move forward, they can't exercise their rights because only SNS activists are hired from day to day. Young people are leaving our country and that is what you are ignoring and my colleague Balša Bozovic's proposals, which are how young people should get hired, what privileges and what the best possible solutions to make in step. It's just some of the things that this government ignores, ignoring not DS proposals that way, but reality. That's why I'm appealing to put this on the agenda this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22764	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Maja Vidinović suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22765	Dear colleagues and colleagues, amending the Law on Electronic Media, we are actually talking about REM, the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, which is an independent independent regulatory organisation that exercises public authority under the law. Unfortunately, citizens are witnessing the fact that REM today in Serbia in 2017 is all, just not that, that REM is an organisation and institution that violates the laws and regulations of this country. With my colleague Vesna Marjanović, I have proposed amendments to the law that will strengthen the legal powers and legal obligations of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, which will specify and in no way will leave room for abuse and interpretation and all that REM is doing today under political pressure. One of the objectives of REM is to preserve, protect and develop freedom of opinion and expression, and REM is doing everything today, just not that. You know, when REM doesn't meet its legal obligations, for example. He conducts continuous monitoring and Serbian citizens, not political parties, informs whether political actors, whether parliamentary parties are represented equally, especially when we talk about elections, are not mocking REM by breaking the law only to political parties, but to all citizens, because he is hitting on the basis of democracy, on freedom of expression. It is a constitutional category that citizens have the right to be objective, timely and truthfully informed, and REM, which should be the controller of freedom and that space, does everything but what is legally required. When REM shut up, then Alexander Vukic, at the moment the president of the Republic of Serbia, and the SNS are taking over the role of being the meterers of seconds and minutes in which the show, in which the central daily RTS is attached, is who had as much. So REM shut up and doesn't feel any obligation to break the law actually does something much worse. You know, when REM shuts up and doesn't react to the most nakedest hate speech, discrimination, the most brutal things that television with national frequency, which is, I'll remind all of you together, the public good, REM that doesn't react once it issues a national frequency, and that's what I suggested along with my colleague in amendments to this law, that it's constantly being monitored, that there's one continuous monitoring of whether someone who's got public good to meet the law, to protect public interest, actually does, or some television with a national frequency becomes a tool in the hands of one man, who's counting with not just political opponents, but with anyone in the country who dares to say anything that bothers one man. It should be the REM regulator, that the guardian is free-thinking, and REM today is a weapon in the hands of one man and one party. The amendments to this law speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22766	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Dejan Nikolic proposed that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the law on value added tax. Does anyone want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22767	Dear Presidents, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, I proposed this bill to supplement the Code of Criminals after talking to Professor Cedomir Cupic, a longtime anti-corruption fighter and a person I respect, where he gave me an idea to propose a bill that would allow the criminal act of illegally acquired property cannot be outdated. We are witnessing that Serbian citizens are aware that, in many years, certain politicians are involved in certain affairs and that in the process of aging, these criminal processes are practically interrupted. What is very important is the most significant anti-corruption potential of every society, and it is precisely the resolve of its citizens to live in a free and orderly society. I believe that citizens are discouraged by negative experiences and do not believe that reporting will produce any effect or fear that reporting corruption will lead to repression against those who have reported it. Since proposing this add-on in Criminal Law would allow any criminal offence of illegally acquired property to go out of date and send one preventive message to all people who have been engaged in public work at some point, that it is not wise to abuse their position and that they will sooner or later answer to the Serbian people for the damage they have caused the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22768	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Health Insurance Act. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22769	Dear President, I have proposed the addition of the Health Insurance Act to the introduction of a mandatory hearing screening program in newborn babies. As early as 1998, a European statement on the screening of newborn babies was agreed in Milan. More than 60,000 babies are born in Serbia each year, and 300 young people are diagnosed with congenital hearing damage. In the first months of a baby's life, they develop their hearing more intensely, and later the speech. You are witnessing that over the past year and a half a national campaign has been conducted, Ringer Askeng Springer, led by "Blic" where we have succeeded with the support of the Ministry of Health to raise money and equip all the maternity homes in Serbia, 56 maternity homes in Serbia have received an oto acoustic amic, an apparatus measuring hearing in newborn babies. The idea was and the idea is still present that hearing is done from day three to day five of the baby's birth. You're witnesses, that's what I said, and now I repeat as a MP and as a professor of medical school, so this is a very important measure. The maternity homes are equipped but more and more citizens inform me that this screening is not done in maternity homes. That's why now as a MP, I'm taking the opportunity to impose a legal obligation on people who are in maternity homes, because many of our people say we don't have appliances. Now you have machines and now you're going to have to measure the hearing of all babies in order to become an orderly society and in order to be able to measure the child at birth whether he has hearing damage or not. This measure is practically binding for all maternity homes, and not like so far, we've equipped them with appliances, and they're not doing their job. I got reliable information from my parents and from Novi Sad and from some other smaller environments that their screening was not done even though these maternity homes were given machines in action to collect funds and equip maternity devices with hearing aids in newborn babies. So, I repeat once again as a doctor, the most important thing to do at birth is to do screening, to see if the baby hears or doesn't hear, and that's from day three to day five. That's what I'm asking for in the discharge list, and that's what I'm asking for in this bill, that the release list be recorded and said, "The child hears or the child doesn't hear." This is how parents take the child out of the maternity ward, and only after three, four or five years of his life do they realize that the child can't hear or turn up television to hear a cartoon, and then it's much harder to get back and hear, and when you don't hear, you can't even develop a speech. It is a great burden for the state of Serbia, for society. This is a preventive measure that would facilitate rehabilitation and hearing return, and then develop speech in our youngsters.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22770	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 17, against no one with abstentions – there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22771	On the basis of Article 88, I suspect we have a quorum because we are proposing laws here, and MPs are trying to put their ideas in these three minutes and propose laws. I think it would be correct for all of them to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R. because I think at this point we have a problem with the quorum in order to no doubt determine whether to vote for or against these proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22772	Please determine the quorum. Please insert your cards into the electronic voting system's parliamentary units. (Balsa Bozovic: Your system is not working again. ) Thank you for your help, not necessary, the electronic system works, will show how many MPs there are in the O.R. (Radoslav Milojic: Please remove your cards) Thank you for the suggestion. Okay, the electronic system shows that there are 119 MPs in the O.R. and I'm taking a five-minute break, so we'll re-establish the quorum. [[after breaks]] I ask the MPs to sit down, to determine the quorum and proceed with the work. Please insert your MP cards into the electronic voting system. I find there are 138 MPs present in the O.R. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22774	Dear Presidents, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I have proposed to amend the draft amendments to the Criminal Law in Article 250, together with the National Association of HIV-diseased people, by the AIDS. In fact, the state of Serbia is trying to fight discrimination in every place and in every segment of society, however, the error of the legislator in the years when the Criminal Code was passed and when the HIV virus was something that was a new disease in the 1980s was introduced, Article 250, which specifically treats HIV people, unlike other infectious diseases treated in Article 249. Criminal code. Friends from the National Organisation of HIV sufferers believe that the isolation of HIV infection and transmission alone is further stigmatized by these persons and we suggest that Article 250 be deleted and that HIV be transferred to Article 249, where other infectious diseases are treated, both hepatitis C and hepatitis B, which are more dangerous and more difficult to treat than HIV patients. Article 249. The criminal code already provides for sanctioning the transmission of infectious disease and we believe that only the extraction of HIV infection in Article 250 is placed in a discriminatory position and that these persons are also discriminated against by law, in addition to the many barriers our citizens still, unfortunately, have in their heads. The problem is those barriers we have to take down. You live with HIV. Our neighbors, our fellow citizens, can have this infectious disease, but with that disease, they live and they can do their job. This is an appeal from the National Association of Side People to make this change to the Law. In the previous term, I asked Mr Selakovic and suggested that this issue be resolved. Due to the extraordinary parliamentary elections that have taken place, this has not come to the Assembly's agenda, and I am continuing to fight on behalf of HIV sufferers on behalf of the Ministry of Justice to change the amendment of this Article 250, and that people who have suffered from AIDS are not legally discriminated against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22775	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against none, with abstention, none. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on secondary education and education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22776	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, the bill is aimed at one preventive work with our children in primary and secondary schools, given that we are familiar and that we are practically disgusted, from Sunday to Sunday, from month to month, when we see on the front pages of some newspapers or national media that a child has been injured at school, that a child has been victimized by violence. The proposal is to introduce the first hour of the month to be a preventative hour with a class elder, with a teacher, where to talk about tolerance, where to talk about the importance of living together, that those children who are in a class, who are the same generation, to realize that there are children who are less hearing, that there are children who are less visible, that there are children who have diabetes, that there are children who are less moving, that there are children who are less intellectually able to monitor teaching and that there is no reason for this diversity to be the subject of peer attacks on each other and that through one preventive work, through one work with just those children one culture, one tolerance towards their peers. The bill came from the Citizens' Association "Dragana Rodic", a brilliant Nišlijka who, unfortunately, remained in a wheelchair after a car accident still struggles to continue to believe he will walk. I sincerely hope she beats that disease, just like she's done before. This great Nislika has initiated that we teach children tolerance from small legs and together we have made a small gift for children of primary schools and for children of high schools, where we would learn tolerance and where we would show that there is diversity and that diversity is not a reason for another to be a target. The other one can't be a target. Unfortunately, in recent years, we have witnessed that in many schools, both primary and secondary in Serbia, violence is increasingly spreading and that this is a preventive form of work with our students, with our children, where we are asked that the first hour of the month be dedicated to the story of diversity, to being committed to the fight against violence against peers, and that each month that first hour be dedicated to this particular struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22777	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law supplementing the law on basic education and education. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22778	Your Honor, this is the same theme for elementary school only. I'll say that every fourth child is a victim of peer violence, and digital violence is becoming more common among children. Unfortunately, children in some situations can be very cruel. When I mention digital violence, you have different closed "viber" groups of minors, founders and high school students, where a certain child is being ridiculed, where he gossips and where he is the subject of ridicule and gossiping of his peers. Almost every child can become a victim of peer violence, and the first step in preventing this problem is a relationship between parents and children. Of course, one family education is that fortress, the most basic cell, practically one society, is family. However, according to UNICEF data, some form of school violence has suffered two thirds of children in Serbia, which is a frantic information where we have to turn on red light and where we have to work to fight peer violence, that the perpetrators of peer violence are recognized, that the system reacts quickly so that there are no more serious consequences, so that there is no loss of life, given that one of my young Nishlia, a small Alex, has even lost his life in this once-year-old suffering of violence from her peers. These are topics that are very serious and that require that the state and the Resord Ministry react, that through one preventive work, in leading these preventive, practical, educational classes, where it would draw attention that it is not good to be harassed, that it is not good to be isolated, that it is alone, because, besides physical violence, there is also psychological violence when you single a boy or a girl from a group, when you don't talk to him, when you turn your back, it's something that hurts and what a child is subjected to once and for a long time, practically, to a trauma. Every fourth grade says there's a student at his school who's afraid of something, because he could be bullied. Polls that I had in mind say that only six founding students and 23% of Serbian high school students have never experienced violence. I think it is necessary to introduce a programme of tolerance for the prevention of peer violence, which would include raising students' awareness of diversity, in order to increase the safety of children and pupils in primary and secondary schools. The implementation of the mentioned program would take place every month at first class with a teacher, or a class elder, as well as at a first parent meeting, because it is important to talk to parents, to show parents what his child is doing, whether the child has come to school to study or harass another student. I invite you to adopt this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22779	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstention – anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the situation in the media after the privatisation process. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for—seven against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law supplementing the law on local self-government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for—seven against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by a draft law supplementing the law on corporate tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – six, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and amendments to the law on local self-government. Do you want a word? The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22780	I thank the esteemed president. I propose the Law on Local Self-Government, i.e. amending the Law on Local Self-Government. I don't know how many times, and I'm calling you again, since it's a law that needs to be brought into line with the law on student and student standards, and it's about giving opportunities to local self-government in Serbia so that they can scholarship the best students and students in schools. Unfortunately, I have to say that all the time, by proposing this law more than 20 times that wasn't enough for your attention, to accept that law, although we are aware of the state of mind today in Serbia, even though we are aware of how hard it is for people to live and difficult to provide funding for their children, unfortunately, and when we can do that, when it's a matter of form, you don't want it. I ask you to propose this law to the government, to propose an SNS parliamentary group or any other ruling party. Remove these distractions that mayors and presidents of municipalities don't have to break the laws when they want to help study their best students. Also, this is so much more important, which from year to year, the budgets, or the number of students, the college's budget cuts, and you today have a situation where those students with averages of 9.4 or 9.5 and more are self-financing, because colleges don't have enough funding from the budget to be able to accept more students on the budget. It happens year after year. Then we wonder why every year tens of thousands of young people leave Serbia. They're leaving because we don't care about them. They leave because when the best students and students finish their schooling for them, there are no seats in Serbia. It's not because in the state administrations their place was taken by drivers, taken by waiters, they took over some who were loyal to the parties, who absolutely don't deserve to take up seats for such young people. We today, unfortunately, do not base our economic strategy on the best, but on the worst, and this is also seen in the way that businesses and how they support Serbia's economy. We support those who are looking for unskilled workers, so in the future, we will probably need children on this principle to enroll in three-year professions so that they can knit cables in various companies that come to Serbia, because we do not seem to need quality, educated students and students who can give quality to our society and start Serbia and start a change in society, we already need a simple workforce, and therefore you do not want to accept this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22781	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments to the laws on incentives in agriculture and rural development. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22782	I thank the president. Of course, I've been talking for a long time about agriculture being a chance, is the untapped potential of the Republic of Serbia, and I'm sorry that things are going to be the way they are, and it will continue to be. You ignore the fact that more than a million and a half people live in Serbia today, some say, even two, directly from agriculture working through 640,000 small family farms. Today, these agricultural holdings are the largest employer in Serbia and have the least budget support. The strategy for agriculture and investment in agriculture is not focused on them, but is aimed at a small number of large tycoons that need to take as much funding from the budget as possible and when I say so, you can also see how much incentives for farmers are, and therefore I propose this law, to increase incentives for both plant production and regression for fuel, fertilizer, seed, milk premium, because I absolutely do not think that our farmers can be competitive with farmers from countries in the environment. Unfortunately, it is not the ruling party's strategy, it is not a SNS strategy. I must remind you that in 2012, when you came to power, you declared agriculture as one of the key branches of the economy, which you will pay special attention to, and even said that the economic and political definition that agriculture should be a strategic economic branch, that the agrarian budget will increase every year, starting from 5% in 2012, each year by 1% in the budget. I'll remind you that's what it says in the White Book. You can read it, if you don't believe it, which you betrayed and promised the farmers how much you'd give them. Today that budget is below these 5%. So, I'm not talking about that 1% increase, which you promised and lied about, but I'm talking about it's not even the 5% in 2012 and you're breaking the Budget Law, which is supposed to be a minimum of 5% for agriculture. This tells how sincere you are in your promises and how much you want to pay attention to farmers. But on the other hand, it doesn't mean it's not given to farmers. Here, you gave the Arabs 10,000 acres of the most fertile orcs in Vojvodina. Now you will give “Tenisa, ” which should teach us how to grow pigs, and our people who could normally live and do this job well. Unfortunately, there is no place for them, because they are not good enough and interesting enough for SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to come and present a false picture of how it actually invests in agriculture and how agriculture develops.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22783	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Members of Parliament Nenad Konstantinovic proposed that the agenda of the session be complemented by the points - Proposal for a tax-determination law on undeclared citizens' income. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22784	Parliament Speakers, honourable MPs, I have proposed that a law be passed on the establishment of a tax on undeclared citizens' income. I could also call this law a law on the origin of property and the origin of property and of officials and of all citizens in this country. The popular law would call "the aunt's law", alluding to the affair of Minister Vulin, who could not give adequate answers and adequate evidence to the Anti-Corruption Agency, where he received an apartment that paid just over 200,000 euros. So all citizens in this country think that the people who were in office, so all the officials who participated in the executive government, who were directors of public enterprises, have acquired something illegal. Since not all of them have acquired something illegal, I call upon the SNS to pass one law to determine who they are who acquired illegal property and who did not acquire illegal property. I don't see why the SNS is afraid of it, and why the SNS wouldn't support us discussing a law like this, which gives the IRS the possibility to determine in an effective way who it is and in what period what it has acquired, what the value of this property is, and how much income is taxed by the state of that same citizen. If there is a difference, it is normal to pay taxes on that difference. I suggest that it be 20%, up to a certain number 40% or even 60%. We have to try to put an end to the gray economy. The data shows that the grey economy is up to 30% of GDP and that's 10 billion. That cash that's untaxed from illegal businesses generates corruption further. If there was no cash, there would be no corruption to this extent, and it's getting bigger. I call upon you once again to establish the property of all of us who have been to some functions and all citizens and to once and for all put an end to the story that every government steals, that people in power are changing, and that never the next government will investigate what the previous government has done. All the efforts in the fight against corruption that this government was doing we saw that they had failed and Miskovic was eventually released. So let's do something useful and do it together. Don't be afraid to determine your assets.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22785	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – ten, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote – 135. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Special Measures to Prevent the conduct of criminal acts against semi-freedom against minors, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – ten, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote – 135. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency, which submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Konstantinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22786	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I propose a year and a half of SNS to allow this parliament to discuss corruption in political parties, to discuss how to prevent corruption in political parties, to bring together integrity plans and you simply don't want to do it, and probably to know why you don't want to vote on that previous law, which would determine the property of all your officials, and you don't want to discuss what corruption is like in political parties. Citizens know that corruption in political parties has and that it comes from political parties. If we ask the state authorities to bring together integrity plans and behave in accordance with them, to establish state authorities where there is the possibility of corruption in these state bodies, why not ask political parties the same? Political parties include those who lead the country after and are headed by state authorities. Political parties are taught ethics and morality, and if someone steals and cheats in the political party in the elections, he will steal and cheat both in the country in the elections. If someone spends money untransparently within the political party, they'll do it when they get to the state. So citizens don't believe political parties are deprived of corruption. Let's make one effort together and make an amendment to the law that would oblige everyone in their political parties to tell themselves where the problems are, where corruption is, how to prevent this corruption, how to make decisions, and make it a way for everyone to know about them. What's SNS afraid of? I call again on you to bring some of the concrete measures to combat corruption, not to make the fight against corruption a beautiful story about how these or them are being chased, and in the end, no one rushes. Corruption is getting bigger. She's not smaller. You have a public opinion study and you know it very well. Ten billion gray money, dirty money in circulation. With those ten billion you can corrupt anyone. Let's put an end to the fact that there are illegal jobs, undeclared revenues, that there is a gray economy that destroys this society and introduce mechanisms to fight corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22787	Thank you, colleague Konstantinovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does the MP want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22788	The Honorable Chairman, MPs, on 16 September 2016, I submitted this bill. A year and more than a year SNS won't let us talk about property taxes. Why don't you allow at least one law proposing the opposition to come on the agenda? Let's have this internal dialogue. Is the theme for Serbian citizens a property tax? It's certainly a property tax issue, because in 2013, you raised it to some 200%, some 300%, and at the same time you cut salaries, reduced pensions, introduced electricity excise energy, electricity excise, increased VAT. What are you doing essentially? You're essentially making an alleged surplus in the budget by taking money from the citizens and putting it in the budget. You take a single tax, among other things, and a property tax, instead of strengthening and giving some of the measures that would encourage the economy to work better and create some extra value. We can't run an economy on this -- we bring property tax 300% higher and all citizens have to pay. They don't have anything to pay that tax on, and you make them, because they have nothing to pay their taxes on, that they have to sell their apartments, sell their houses and move away. I just don't know where they're gonna move, how they're gonna move and who they're gonna sell, because there's no one to buy. So, the moment you cut all your income, you raise your taxes. It is unsustainable for Serbian citizens. In this law, we propose that taxes cannot be increased to citizens by more than 7% per year, so that it is predictable, that citizens can plan if that increase occurs. You don't need to tax an apartment that has 80 square feet and has a four-member family living in it. People, under the Constitution, we have the right to our property, we have the right to live in these apartments. Don't make four-member families out of apartments that don't have to pay taxes, because they can't even live in smaller apartments. It's not the luxury of 25 square meters per family household member. Vote for this bill of law to discuss it, to resolve the suffering of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22789	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Do you want a word? (Nenad Constantinović: No. I put the motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22790	The Social Democratic Party submitted a bill amending the Law on the selection of MPs immediately after the start of this term, so in 2016. Since then, the SNS will not discuss amending the electoral law, although there is a consensus in society and all citizens agree that the electoral system is not right and that the Law on the election of MPs is not right, that it should change, that citizens want to know who their representative is, from their municipality, from their area in parliament. Unfortunately, since you do not want to put on the agenda for a year and a half of this important law, a law which, among other things, is a consequence of the suspicion that election theft was made in the 2016 elections, and you have rejected all proposals to form polling committees, to examine what has happened, we propose amendments to the electoral law that have nothing to do with political determination of political parties. We've done those shifts in the meantime. So, I am now talking about the law that I passed in 2016, which you do not want to discuss, and I submitted 2017 and another amendment proposal, given that presidential elections took place in the meantime and that in these presidential elections we also identified a large number of irregularities that were not previously held in parliamentary and local elections. That is why I will talk partly about solutions under one law, and then following the next proposal from 2017 on some other solutions. What was clear to all of us is that in 2016, there was a circus in RIK, which took place in front of cameras, where the RIK completely illegally decided to count some votes, some sacks opened, where the SNS was responding, and that some other votes did not count and that the sacks did not open. It was then found that there were 60 votes for SDS at the polling post where Goran Bogdanovic, a member of the SDS, voted in the SDS, and in the record, zero. And the election ended that the record left zero and the determined results of zero. You stole 60 SDS votes in one of the polling stations back then.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22791	Ambassador, no offense. If you're proposing your law, you have no right to insult anyone by your Rules of Procedure and to be false.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22792	I absolutely don't tell lies. This was found on RIK, zero votes in the record and results, and 60 in the bag counted by RIK.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22793	Ambassador, otherwise you've exceeded your time, so you've given these flat rates three minutes later. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22794	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, we are all witnessing the inequality between the participants in the political game. So, if there is a suspicion of citizens in the regularity of the elections, if there is a suspicion of citizens stealing the elections, citizens cannot trust the institutions that are thus elected. If there is no trust in institutions, then there is no assumption of the rule of law and of the rule of law. In such a situation is the one who is stronger, who can beat and who can destroy. That's the situation we had in the elections, right in Belgrade, in Savamala, where some beat and destroyed and never knew why and how. So if there is no trust in institutions, then citizens must protect themselves as they know and know, not within institutions, but on the street. Why would the SNS, refusing a year and a half to discuss here how to improve the electoral system and how to allow elections to be fair, refuse it? Because the SNS doesn't have a majority and it's because it's afraid. He's afraid of choices that would be on fair terms. With this law, we propose that all participants have the same right to participate in the election campaign, to be accompanied in electronic and printed media, to have equal time and to be paid and to advertise and organise such emissions from the Republic of Serbia's budget. (Marian Risticevic: Whose terms are these? ) Otherwise, the budget of the Republic of Serbia gives money for the campaign. Tens of millions are spent on an election campaign. The SNS spends about 10m euros on each election. (Marian Risticevic: Shame on you! ) There is no reason to spend 10m euros, such money can be saved. Let it be organised that televisions with national coverage give dates when anyone can present themselves, organise conflicts in which everyone will participate and the advertising terms they will all receive, and that will be paid directly from the budget. Out of 10m euros, 9m are spent on media ads. For a million euros, and how a good campaign can be organised, this is all another waste of money. You can't use a functional position in the campaign. The scam is that officials who participate in the elections as candidates spend money from the state budget. So somebody's got to get in the way of it. This law makes it possible. (Marian Risticevic throws.) ) Can you let me speak? Marijan Risticevic insults me. Can you let me speak?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22795	Don't ask me what happened. I can only see you shouting. I'm putting your motion to the vote, if you're done. I ask the MPs to approach the vote. (Radoslav Milojic: Throw him out of the O.R. I can't throw anyone out. Don't insult me. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that your proposal has not been accepted. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22796	President-in-Office, I would like to announce Article 106(3) that during the speech of the Members of the People and of the other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with the speaker. If you haven't noticed, the whole time Mr. Konstantinovic was saying, not that there was a throw-off, but there were disgusting lies, an insult to his account, shouting and shouting, and it is your obligation to, as when you draw attention to opposition MPs when they shout, do so with MPs who make up the ruling majority. I ask you not to violate the Rules of Procedure, but to allow representatives of the motions of these legislative proposals on the opposition side that they can normally propose their laws, that no one offends them, that no one falls into their word, but that you sanction such behaviour in the future, if you really want to preserve the dignity of this House where we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22797	Which member did you call?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22798	Article 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22799	Okay. I don't think I hurt a member. I try to work and determine the agenda, and I ask all MPs, both of you and most of you, that you do not insult your MPs in proposing and explaining your points and thus participate in the peaceful course of the session and in preserving your dignity. What's not allowed for one is not allowed for the other. No matter who belongs to which group. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Elections. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22800	Thank you. So we are going to have local elections in Belgrade and these elections will likely be with parliament in less than six months. Why are you afraid to amend the electoral law and introduce election committees that are trained, election committees that know how to work in a polling post, to introduce election committees that would prevent stealing in a polling post? Why are you afraid that we know the results of the election immediately after the elections? Why does it have to wait four days in Serbia alone and you don't know who won how many votes in the elections and you know in Germany at six o'clock? Why are you fighting to scan every record from the polling station, to determine the results immediately? What are you afraid of? Why do you need an election commission in which you have a majority, even illegal, that it counts votes rather than the vote being counted at the polls? Why did you prevent the opposition from having representatives among members of the electoral committees in one part of the Republic of Serbia? Why? So you can steal in that place. There's no other explanation. Let's put the law on the agenda...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22801	Ambassador, I ask you only to bring out the truth while you suggest...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22802	So in one part of the Republic of Serbia there were no members of the opposition in the electoral committees and...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22803	MP, everyone knows, the entire public of Serbia, that the opposition had a majority in the election commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22804	You're taking my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22805	Please, MP, pay attention, take the list, read the names, and you know that this time you are false.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22806	You're taking my time, and that's not true. That's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22807	I'm taking the time to tell the truth. It is my right to preserve Parliament's dignity. Ambassador Alexic invited me to respect the Rules of Procedure, Article 106. Bringing out the lie is not allowed here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22808	It's not true what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22809	That's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22810	Look at the polling stations and you'll see the opposition wasn't there.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22811	In the presidential election, everyone had their own representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22812	It's not true what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22813	Don't be false. I'm asking you most nicely.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22814	Give me back the time you took from me, about a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22815	Yes, it's more important to you than the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22816	You, as president of parliament, are false to the citizens of Serbia, probably not even aware of the RIK manual, in which most of the SNS had coalition partners, more than half, which made it impossible for opposition representatives to be members of the election committees in one part of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22817	I thank you, MP. We haven't heard anything about the bill. MPs are obliged to propose in accordance with the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22818	I propose this law of alterations and additions...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22819	... And to explain here, to get support.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22820	I'm explaining that I'd get support.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22821	Thank you very much. I'm putting it to a vote, even though we haven't heard anything about the bill. I conclude: there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against. I find this proposal not accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22822	Thank you. A year ago, the National Assembly passed amendments to the law on the financing of local self-government by reducing part of the tax that remained on the local self-government tax, decreased by 4% for municipalities and 6% for cities. At that time, it was said that the savings of some five billion dinars per year will contribute to the state of the Republic of Serbia's budget better, and that local self-government will in no way be damaged and that they will be able to comply with their obligations in accordance with the law and that those minors are looking forward to such a proposal that came from the government. Today a year after – what are the results of such a decision? The results are that most of the local self-government is in a major financial downturn, that the state of public debt in local self-government is the highest threat to the finances of the Republic of Serbia, and the result is that despite the empty stories of the city government in Belgrade, Belgrade's budget is in good shape and it is positive, the budget had to go with 100 million dinars, the government's decision to supplement itself from the republican budget because of what the government said was reduced revenues. And what we're proposing is that this change, which was made a year ago, be annulled, to return the amount of income tax to local self-government, but not for the reason that bad, irresponsible behavior of local self-government management would save and help. Our wish is that this total part of the income tax, which is taken every month of 10%, is reduced by 9% from each employee. It's an amendment to the next law I'm going to explain. In order for this change to make sense, it is necessary to amend the Law on the financing of local self-government, to return the rates remaining to local self-governments to 80 and 70%, respectively, in the case of Belgrade, and to reduce the tax rate, which falls to 9%, and that would be zero in the financial pool and make business easier.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22823	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Ambassador Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22824	Thank you, President. Like I said, this law is about a solution from the previous law. So, the income tax of citizens is the tax rate that has been established since 2005, and since then has not been changed despite the announcements of all governments, for the last 10 years, especially all the governments they have had here since 2012, to relieve business. Total gross earnings were not reduced. Only rate changes, pension fund allocation rates increased compared to the health fund, the profit tax rate did not change. We have reports of that again. The last announcement by the president was that it would be 2 – 3%, that we would see what the IMF would say, but I propose to my colleagues that we do not wait for the IMF, that, as the Constitution allows us to do, we create a policy of Serbia, so that we also have economic policy through the adoption of the law on amendments to the law and adopt, that is to say, the draft law amending and supplementing the income tax of citizens and we consider the proposal of the SDS parliamentary group to reduce the tax rate from 10% to 9%. I'm sure that change will come to the Assembly's agenda. Of course, it will be proposed by the government, and of course then we will listen to the praises of the majority MPs for the proposed legislative solutions. The question arises – why is it waiting so long? Why not take action and take active measures that will accelerate domestic economy above all, disbursement what every businessman will say – large publishing on employees' salaries, what makes it impossible for them to grow in both private and public sectors? This would be one small measure, but the measure that would mean the beginning and that would show that we here finally hear what people who produce additional value are looking for. I know that, unfortunately, as many times as I have, I will not get your support for this amendment to the law, but I will continue to propose it while waiting for that government solution that I believe will soon come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22825	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the destruction of buildings in Belgrade in the part of the city known as Savamal on 25 April 2016.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22826	For a year and a half of the SDS and People's Party MPs' group have been trying to come up with a agenda together with other DS MPs and Dveri MPs to put forward a proposal for a decision on the establishment of a Committee of Auditors that would finally help us get to the truth on the night of April 24, 2016, when elections were held, when most Serbian citizens were monitoring developments in the Election Commission with a desire to know the outcome of parliamentary elections. A group of masked people, for whom, to this day, neither the police nor the prosecution can determine who they are, suspended the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia for several hours in one part of Belgrade. They held the citizens who, at that moment, found themselves on the scene in captivity. Those citizens who managed to escape, call the police, received a response from the police that police are not in charge of binding and deprived freedom from masked people, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What do we know today after a year and a half? We know from a statement by the then Prime Minister that these events are being held by complete idiots from the top of the city government. We know the Prime Minister himself would come to tear down those facilities if it were a day. And we know it all from public statements that we could hear from the mouth of the Prime Minister of the then and of the current President of the Republic. I guess for the D.A.'s office and the police, that's not enough. Both the D.A. and the police have no record and no movement in the investigation until today. The price we can see all of these events, in addition to the violated reputation of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to the additional loss of trust of citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, is also the price of a million dinars paid by the prosecution in the name of the fine because it did not want to deliver information of public importance under the law. That is why we believe that it is necessary to form the Assembly's Survey Committee, which would be attended by representatives of all parliamentary groups, who would try to get an answer – who are these phantoms from Savamala, on whose orders they worked, who organized them for it, and who will answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22827	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22828	When the Law on the Public Sector Payments System was passed, our parliamentary group had serious objections, and we presented these concerns in the Bill of Amendments and Law Supplements and for more than a year and a half, practically this entire assembly, we are trying to put it on the agenda. What are the essential concerns that have led, among other things, to the fact that average earnings in the public sector and Serbia are at the beginning of countries in the region, to practically stagnating since 2011? First of all, this law did not cover the entire public sector, although it was said that public enterprises would be in the public sector, it was not the case. This law does not cover employees at the National Bank of Serbia or in public media services. And the other solutions provided for by this law, which was passed almost two years ago, I repeat, which meant the adoption of other laws on the introduction of famous payment classes and the like, on salaries of employees in local self-governments and in the AP Vojvodina, were not adopted in accordance with the legal deadlines. As prime minister, the Prime Minister came twice to parliament, once to reduce the revenues of local self-government as the minister in charge of the state administration and local self-government, and the second time to seek the postponement of a legally prescribed deadline that practically most parliamentarians adopted. We are now waiting, again waiting for the deadline that was due on 1 January 2018. Meanwhile, due to poor detimulative solutions in this law, public administration has left a number of professional personnel. The question today is how can we implement reforms all and adopt the best legal solutions, which unfortunately does not happen. Who will conduct this in the ministries that people who have been the bearers of the reform process in the last few years have abandoned, because their salaries have been reduced multiplely by amendments to the Labour Act, then the wage reduction that has been going on for three years, and now an alleged 5% increase is being announced? These solutions have also contributed to party employment and to all negative phenomena.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22829	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The National Parliament of Alexander Chabrai proposed that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Cultural Goods. Does a messenger want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22830	Last time you wouldn't let me talk about this bill in search of these documents, but I will tell you what's common for a set of laws that I've passed, working with colleagues from the DS Parliament Club on tax laws, above all, with a motive to make a fairer social distribution in Serbia, as well as regional distribution. When I talk about this bill, do you want a income tax on citizens or a corporate tax? So we suggested changing Article 39, where it is said that the corporate income tax rate is variable and is 10% to 30%, and in comparison with the average net earnings per employee of statistical territorial units and regions. The idea is that the irresponsible capital owners who keep their workers on minimum earnings are motivated by not having a fixed rate of net profit tax, but that those who retain 80% to 150% of the average earnings in their companies keep that fixed, at this point 15% of the net profit obligation. Those below 80%, so those who pay below 80% of the average profit would pay the tax on our proposal 30%, because it would motivate them to raise the labour price, make the employee's earnings more, according to the average in the statistical region in which these companies function. The third level is to stimulate all those who know what a satisfied worker means, who know they're fighting for their worker and know they're motivated by them, and those who pay more than 150 percent of the average earnings in the statistical region, and I think that's twice as significant. It's important because of the fairer social distribution, it's important because it insists on the motivation of workers and I'm sure that's how we get a more efficient economy, but also a greater accumulation of people who live out of their own work. In this way we will increase consumption, which will certainly stimulate the next round and production, and I think this is a law that, once again, the bill is here on the agenda because we want to make social distribution both horizontally and vertically more just in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22831	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22832	Thank you, President. In two days, it will be three years after the Assembly passed the Law on the temporary arrangement of the way pensions were paid. The law is to justify the word temporarily in the proposal that its duration has been laid down for three years. In a debate three years ago, the assembly debate, the former labour minister, the current defence minister said, accepting an amendment that came by the assembly's majority to wipe out those three years in the law, that the need for such a law would end long ago. We, from a statement made by the Prime Minister and members of the government here since 2015, who spoke about the excellent results of fiscal consolidation, have been asking for two years to be abolished, or passed, the law on the termination of the law. Unfortunately, today, three years later, Serbian citizens can see that there is no saying about the temporaryity of this law, that this law will last forever, or that it will continue as long as this rule lasts. If it were different and if the stated objectives had been achieved when this law was passed three years ago, we would not have had a story today and a detour from the story of how to repay pensions to those who were unjustly taken away three years ago, whether it was one third or more pensioners in the Republic of Serbia, we have a story about how all pensions will be increased and how allegedly after that increase pensioners in Serbia will receive more money than ever. What's the specifics? Pensions increased at the beginning of 2016 by 1.25%, and if inflation was 1.7% in the previous year, so they increased by 1.5% when inflation was 2.8%. If pensions had remained in line with price increases, pensions would have been higher today and after that 5% increase, because the price rise for a little over the last three years was more than five plus 1.5 plus 1.25, but there's no place to hear it either. The only way to correct injustice is to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22833	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the law on value added tax. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22834	The draft law amending and supplementing the value added tax concerns changes in baby food tax. For two years, we have been suggesting that baby food be included in those products that are taxed with a special rate of 10% added tax instead of a general rate of 20%. It is a very small change and symbolic, but it is part of a few measures that should facilitate the position of families with small children in the Republic of Serbia, to indicate the thinking of young people, who today delay parenting because of the difficult economic situation, that the Republic of Serbia is thinking of them and that it will help them to come true as parents. For more than two years, we have been proposing this law, and we have not received support or MPs of the majority, when a point was put on the agenda of the session, but not when we talked through amendments to the law amending the VAT law to the minister, who said that there was nothing against this measure in principle, but that it did not believe that traders would transfer this reduction in VAT rate to the final product, and that it would allegedly open up a space for abuse and that the tax administration would not be able to control whether they all implemented this change. We believe the IRS can do it. If not, those who manage it must leave urgently and it is a big question of how the Tax Administration does its job in general and whether it makes it difficult to work business and businesses or helps them to work better, to work in accordance with the law, to earn greater income, thus making it more revenue for the budget. But let's get back to this shift. New amendments to the Financial Support Act with children are announced, and we will talk more about it, but it is said that this measure is negligible within these measures. I call on you, therefore, to take a negligible couple of minutes and, without much debate, to adopt this amendment and show that we are taking care of the future of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22835	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by points – Proposal for a law on the proposal of the Law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22836	The law should introduce order in the way the Serbian Parliament discusses legal solutions. Again today, all the points of the agenda, all the laws on the agenda, are put into congregation procedure by emergency procedure. Although the Prime Minister only a few days ago, at some of the gatherings that are being promoted, and here he flees from parliament as the devil from the cross, said the government's intention to pass all the laws through a public debate. And, of course, she gets a round of applause. But what's reality? All the laws of today are laid down by an emergency procedure, some a few days ago, came to parliament. All the laws that generally come from the government bear that mark to be proposed by an emergency procedure. Well, then at the beginning of the session, the ruling majority does not vote to establish this emergency procedure. And today we voted on several laws proposed by the MUP, or Minister, Government, and the minister was authorized to propose here and we did not put those laws. The BIA law came by emergency procedure and now has been in the process for about two months now. What's all this for? What's it for except to dissipate this House's work? What we have been proposing for two years, as the proposal for this law was first submitted in September 2015, to introduce order in the manner in which the laws come into the assembly procedure, how public debate is conducted, how MPs through the work on committees discuss the proposals of the law before they come to the plenary session. And finally, the way they argue here in the Assembly. Is it through the pointless unification of ten or more points of the agenda that primarily have nothing to do with each other. Because of this, Parliament's reputation as the most important institution of parliamentary democracy is growing from month to month. The only media report in this House is about which he has told whom some insults. It's the responsibility of all of us. If we don't want to follow the rules that already exist, we suggest a new one. Put on the agenda to talk about them and adopt what we think is best.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22837	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22838	Thank you, President. And this law stands in the process for a year and a half, or we try to put it on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament for a year and a half. Namely, when a tax was reintroduced, the TV tax whose fee was paid in almost the same way as the electricity tax that was frozen, whose suspension was announced immediately upon the arrival of this authority, in 2012, and for this we had to wait two years, and then only half a year after it was returned, with a similar channel name, or the same billing channel. The fee for public media service today is paid with an electricity bill and you by law, unless you belong to the categories of disabled persons you cannot free yourself from paying this fee. What are the consequences of that? These households, above all in the village, which have several electric numbers, because for years people have spread their households a little bit, and with the house they build an auxiliary facility, a garage, a barn or the like, and for each of them they have received a special electric number and for each of these electric numbers they have to pay the amount of this tax. They can't get free by law. If they apply to the Public Media Service, they answer that there is no legal possibility. What we propose to this law is to clearly define that a citizen, as a single taxpayer, can only pay this tax once, which is in accordance with the Constitution, which is in accordance with the laws. Unfortunately, we do not have the support of the ruling majority. When the amendments to the Law on Public Media Service were discussed a year ago, when the height of that subscription was established, it was said – well, that height is not great, it is only 150 dinars. Maybe it means a lot to someone and to 150 dinars, and it certainly means a lot to someone who has to pay those 150 dinars three or four times, and it will only mean when this tax is raised, because I don't believe the government will continue to finance public media services in the years to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22839	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 14, v – 14. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on financial support for the family with children.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22840	Thank you, Chairman. The importance of this law and the need for it to change and has not been changed since 2010, all ministers have pointed to this importance over the past three years and announced numerous solutions. Today we see ministers appearing in the public and Minister for Labour, Employment and Ministers without portfolios in charge of demography, talking about solutions that the future law on financial support for the family with children will have. In all that time, for more than two years, the Social Democratic Party and the People's Party parliamentary group has been trying to put on the agenda a proposal to amend and supplement, which should help families with children to cope more easily with problems in these difficult times of economic crisis. But unfortunately there's no answer. At one point, the government informed us, in line with its obligation even before, in the term of the previous minister, that a working group was re-formed which was disbanded due to the 2016 elections and that the working group is now doing something. That was over a year ago. The solutions that this task force has come to, as MPs, we don't know. We can hear from the government's official pompous announcement that now the state's aid for the first child is going to be 100,000 instead of 39,000. I believe it was pleasing to the citizens of Serbia, but what they could hear, which is so said not to be heard, so to speak, that this assistance will be paid in the next two years after the birth of the child, which is losing its sense of help, because it was so important to help families who receive the first child, to buy the basic things that are necessary when the baby first comes to the house. Breaking you up for two years isn't the answer. But here in our law there are many other important solutions. We can talk about money, of course, depending on how much money there is in the budget, but there are solutions that need to solve the problems of single parents, which should be regulated differently by the censorship that you qualify for a child's supplement. These are far more important things than the amount of money.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22841	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22842	We've been trying to put the cultural law on the agenda for over a year, and it contains two changes. One is to put cultural action into law and art photography. It was in the working version of the law, then deleted when the law came into the congregation procedure and unfortunately such a solution was adopted. We believe that art photography, as an expression of the artist, is necessary to find and be clearly defined in the law. We disagree that it means that art photography is part of culture as part of visual art. The second thing is to reward citizens of the Republic of Serbia who win prestigious European and world awards in cultural competitions. In fact, the law provides for the possibility of allowing these cultural workers to obtain a national pension by government. We want it not to be an option left to the government, but to be a legal obligation, as it is in the case of athletes who win a medal at one of the European or world competitions. We do not agree with the government's response to this bill, that this is done, that it is possible, because if there is a possibility then it is left to the Minister to propose or not to suggest that some cultural worker does not receive the prize. What we're looking for, we're looking for a legal solution, which requires a legal obligation to provide the artist with a national pension in the event of the award of world or European character. I talked about the importance of culture every time we tried to put this point on the agenda, with various statements of what historical, what current politicians and great world thinkers are doing. Again, perhaps once again, something important for the current moment of Serbia, which is the assessment of European Council President Donald Tusk, that democracy without culture and media becomes a dictatorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22843	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Excise Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22844	The essence of this law is to introduce excise for artificially sweetened drinks. This is the way many countries in the world are fighting an epidemic of obesity, which has been declared by the World Health Organization, and in the environment of Hungary, Norway, Mexico, Ireland, Slovenia, Croatia, Romania, Bulgaria. While we have been proposing this measure for more than a year, the data we have received is that unfortunately Serbia is in a country where particularly young people and children are threatened by unhealthy nutrition and large consumption of artificial sweetened drinks. How obesity in children is so high that more than 40% of children are overweight. How children lack a quality diet in fast food schools. Should Serbia's concern about the future wait for the government's good will to go and try to cope with this epidemic. What we propose to this law is that the funds that would be at the level of some six billion dinars a year, be allocated to a special fund that would fund healthy nutrition in schools and kindergartens and raise awareness of the importance of healthy nutrition. One encouraging news earlier days was the announcement by the minister of education, that a working group was formed to deal with the state of child feeding in schools. What is bad is the cause that was – poisoning children in Belgrade by food suppliers who, of course, are a prominent member of the SNS, when more than a hundred children are poisoned. The ministry is now announcing concern. We are proposing the adoption of this law, because this would probably solve the key problem, if the state were involved in solving this financial problem. That's five dinars a liter of artificially sweetened drinks.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22845	Thank you. I conclude the vote and declare that for—12 MPs, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22846	The motive for proposing this law is also a fairer social distribution in Serbia and a fairer regional distribution in Serbia. The proposal is to earn money from art. 13 to 15b. The law on income tax on citizens of capital referred to in Article 61(2) of this Act shall include in the account. The reason for the adoption of this law is, above all, the inclusion of dividend income revenues proposed in the accounting of annual income tax and the creation of conditions for increasing inflows and public revenue collection based on income tax. Therefore, the intention is to mitigate social inequality among citizens and to carry out fiscal coverage with a desire for vertical and horizontal justice and taxation. I think it is important that these topics be part of the debate in this hall in our plenary session, because I think it is extremely important that we look at the data that means public life in Serbia. The average salary in August was 47,000 dinars, and so on. The new consumer basket was 69 to 70,000 dinars and the minimum consumer basket was 36,000 dinars. We have an extremely worrying record that about 8% of the population is below the poverty line. So, the poverty line, the poverty line is spending below 11,500 dinars per month, and for a family with two adult members and children below 14 years is that amount of 31,500. It's the border and the line of poverty. To remind you – 36,000 minimum consumer baskets are something that exceeds 4.5 thousand dinars that border of the poverty line, so 8% in Serbia is below the poverty line, that's about 500,000 people. So here we're talking about 500,000 people and those who are on the border, and that's a very significant number. The proposal is to cover the inflow of capital, because, by simple analysis, when we start talking about dual education this day, we need to see how we treat work. I think we're jeopardizing the future of young people by adopting a law on dual education, by showing how much we appreciate work at all. These bill proposals are precisely on the subject – to appreciate more the work of people who work and tax those irresponsible capital owners who do not rightly motivate their employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22847	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13 MPs, against – no one, abstention – no one voted 136 out of 149. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does MP Goran Ciric want a word? Here you go, colleague Kiric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22848	Once again, the motive is the same. I was talking about the social status of the largest number of citizens in the Republic of Serbia and this is a set of laws that we are proposing and which, even if adopted, even if we are discussing them, will not solve all citizens' problems. But it's important that we be prepared to talk about it. I think it is important that we open a debate and accept what is reality in Serbia. With this bill, we have proposed that persons be obliged to submit data from Article 2 of this Article twice during the year, on 15 January and 30 June, and that a special organisational part of the tax administration, with specially trained personnel, be formed in cooperation with other state authorities, the MUP, the Catastre, the National Bank of Serbia, the Customs Administration, the Central Charter Register of Value, the APR, the Treasury Department, the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, be processed as a verification of applicants who have not submitted their application. Therefore, the aim is to implement a more efficient comparison of natural persons' assets with their reported incomes. This would go on the road to harmonisation of tax laws with the future Law of Origin of Assets. Here's an example. We are MPs in the Republic Assembly and we have an example of many of our colleagues, both former and present, who have been sitting in the Republic Assembly since 1990. We know that the average salary of lawmakers from 1990 to today has been around 500 euros per month, and in periods significantly and less. In 1993, the salary was five to ten euros, we know for ourselves, in years of hyper inflation. In 2000, in September, the average salary in Serbia was 30 euros. When we remind ourselves, it may even be overestimated that average wage value of 500 euros. This means that at the annual level, the net income of MPs would be 500 times every 12 months – 6000 euros. So if the MP were to sit from 1990 to 2015, for 25 years, times 6,000 euros, his income would be 150,000 euros. So that he doesn't eat anything, spend it on electricity, communals, spend nothing on his family, so he wouldn't have ten thousand euros left with any savings, let alone to reach the amount of 205,000 euros needed to buy significant properties or much more property that some people have. So the proposal for this law is precisely to cross property with paid taxes and reported income from the entire active business life.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22849	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22850	Dear President, in accordance with Article 88, I am expressing my suspicion that we have a quorum and I would like to check the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22851	Okay. Please insert your cards into the e-system MPs, to determine the quorum. I find a total of 101 MPs present in the hall. Since we don't have a quorum, I'm setting a break for an hour. Resumption is at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[after breaks]] To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the MPs' units. 133 MPs are present in the O.R. We can keep working. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the agenda be complemented by a bill on amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22853	This is another bill we have proposed with a goal, so the Democratic Party and I parliamentary club, proposed with the aim of more equal social distribution and more equal regional distribution. So we here as the Assembly, for the past five years, have passed laws that systematically reduced the revenues of local self-government. We have seen through official reports from the Fiscal Council that the budgets of local self-government are in extremely difficult condition, even they dramatically warned that some works are before bankruptcy. Which could also endanger fiscal stability and financial stability of the entire Republic of Serbia. For this reason, but also for other reasons, we have proposed the law, which states that Article 1 of the bill is subject to changes in Article 35 of the applicable law, so that the local self-government unit belongs to taxes, not only on its territory and outside its territory, and between other taxes and income tax on citizens, and on the incomes of 74% of the income tax paid to the employment residence other than for employees in the public sector, including the general government and public enterprises, as a 100% share in the income tax paid by employees in the public sector, including general government and public enterprises of the proportional and equal share in the local self-government population in the general population of the Republic of Serbia on the last census. What does this mean? So we know that in Serbia, at this time, there are around 700,000 employees in the public sector, public administration and public enterprises. That there are 36 public enterprises in Serbia and that taxes belong mainly to the largest cities in which these people work. It is one of the sources of unfair redistribution in regional terms. Our proposal goes to that side, because we follow the logic that people in the public sector, who work in security, the military, the police, the electricity industry, those who work in health education equally contribute to all people in Serbia. Whether they live in Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis, Novi Sad or smaller places, and thus the taxes belong to all citizens of Serbia. This would provide 300m euros, divided by seven million people, on average 43 euros per capita, which would mean that for one small place of 10,000 inhabitants, that means 430,000 euros in additional revenues, and significant problems can be solved for those funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22854	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am closing the vote, for – 14, against – 1, the abstentions – there is no vote. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Defence Act. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22855	Ladies and gentlemen, as you are familiar with the situation in the military, we have proposed, the DS Parliament Club and I personally set a set of laws relating to the military, which refers to the defence of the Republic of Serbia. A lot of things are completely out of date. Many mechanisms are no longer used when it comes to the development of the defence system. We know very well what condition our army is in. We know very well that in the last five years, the government has been acting in a way that we don't need the military, as if soldiers don't deserve decent lives, as if they don't have the right to provide their family in one safe and normal way, as their colleagues from abroad do. Soldiers are getting poorer today. They are largely leaving their profession today and what is a major problem for the future in Serbia is that the existence of an army will be really difficult to sustain without soldiers, without those who actually do. Tomorrow, it can also happen that Serbia has the most modern technology when it comes to both planes and combat funds and vehicles and everything that makes one army well equipped. But if we don't have soldiers and they don't have a good breakfast, if they can't feed their family, if they can't pay their bills, then that army really doesn't have a future. It's not airplanes either, it's not a technique, it's people, and, above all, patriots who chose their life profession, a military profession, which each of us should serve honor, and of course, the government of the Republic of Serbia, which year after year is increasingly poor and humiliating. We can't talk about the army today through the planes we ordered, and they're over 20, 30 years old. If a soldier doesn't have boots that can survive winter, if he doesn't have shoes he can walk with in the spring and summer, then that army simply has no dignity and then the question is how and how do we want to explain to the citizens that we are actually in order to provide them with safety, to provide them with security if they feel safe and insecure about the soldiers themselves. This is the fundamental difference between the period when Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, when the military was modern, professional, well-equipped and satisfied with its incomes unlike the time when it was led by the former julyman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22856	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am closing the vote, for – 16, against – 1, the abstentions – there is no vote. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Capital.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22857	I am very happy when every draft law of the DS Parliament Club comes across a reaction from the MPs. What is now on the agenda is the proposal, we have elections in Belgrade on a regular basis, they will be in March next year. This is not an election year, and we have a fair offer for you to pass a law in the year that is not electoral and that by the law of the capital tomorrow, when the time comes for the mayor's election we choose directly. I know that in this case it will be a completely different proportion of strength than it is today and I want us to propose a direct election for mayor of Belgrade, for mayor of the capital because citizens want to know who they vote for. They want the name and name of the man who has integrity, who has the program, who has the results behind him and who can convince the people of Belgrade that he is the best solution for them. You can't hide behind Alexander Wolfie forever. You can't hide forever behind those false promises you made back in 2012, over half a decade ago. You can't hide behind so-called victories, and it's about election theft, and those victories concern buying votes and everything that's been a theme in years behind us. We propose a direct choice for the mayor by model as well as the late Nenad Bogdanovic, as the only directly elected mayor of Belgrade in his history. As such, he had great results, rebirthed infrastructure, he returned everything that in the 1990s you had just taken away from the citizens in this coalition and simply led Belgrade in a way that the whole world recognised Belgrade as a city of the future. We also received the epithet as a party and as someone who led the city, and of course the Belgrade citizens who together with the late Mayor Nenad Bogdanovic and realised all these victories and tried to make Belgrade a truly decent place to live. I think this is a unique opportunity to show whether you are afraid of these choices and whether you will allow citizens to tell who will be their mayor tomorrow and the man they will give a voice to, to whom they will trust the word and who they will truly believe Belgrade can again become a world, that it can again be a decent place to live, rather than in the last four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22858	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no vote for – 14, against – two abstentions – no vote. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts in the role and responsibilities of the top authorities in the lawless destruction of buildings in Belgrade's Savamal district and determine the facts of the person responsible for the destruction of those facilities.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22859	Thank you. When it comes to Savamal, I would be very interested in the response of any member of the government, or the President of the Republic of Serbia, what would happen to them if someone had knocked down their house, to have someone tear down their apartment, to be you, the President of the Assembly, who was expelled from your house, tied up in the middle of the night, disabled to call the police, or allowed, but the police not to come. These are all the things that affect Belgrade and the citizens of Serbia, for the simple reason that tomorrow can happen to any of us. Instead of Savamala, it could have happened to be a home of health. Instead of Savala, an object of public purpose could have been destroyed. The police didn't react that night. The police minister is still a minister and has not resigned. The Director of Police is still the director and has not resigned. The Prime Minister has become President of the Republic. Look at the evasiveness of this subject, for the simple reason that the whole charter knows who crashed in the Savamala, who ordered the destruction of the Savamala, who was tomorrow removing evidence in Savamala. These are the things you hide, but you'll never be able to hide them. Each of you knows that when you get into a situation, you'll face this. And, just so you know, you will never have the support of any decent Belgrade citizen, any decent citizen of Serbia, since you have shown, not only to rob citizens, to poverty them, but to be violent, to tear down objects, to tear down someone's homes, and that, absolutely, you have no intention of answering. Believe me, after the formation of this survey board, which is one of the first, along with the helicopter survey board, along with all those other affairs that we have proposed survey committees for, this is also one of the things that will be first after the change of government, and your top officials will, of course, be responsible for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22860	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the points of the Bill on Supplements to the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22861	Thank you. DS President Dragan Sutanovac, in a previous assembly of parliaments when he was a member of parliament, proposed a law that would make it mandatory for every bully registered as a bully in the family to take away firearms. It happens that those who commit this crime are released, keep their weapons legally acquired under the law, and commit a crime, attempted murder, or murder. The papers are full, the black chronicle is full of examples when the husband killed the wife, killed the children, when the violence ended in the family with tragedy and a large number of deaths. This is one bill of law that has absolutely nothing to do with politics, but it has to do with common sense. And what's the problem with the law that most people suggest is that these laws are not based on justice and reason. This is justice and this is reason. Only such laws can be respected by citizens and by the majority in this House. So I ask you to pass this law. Put him on the agenda. No one's going to apply, I'm going first, not as authorized by this law, and I'm not going to use my right to talk about it for 20 minutes and explain. What I ask you is that this is how it was possible, until recently, to preserve from the moment Dragan Sutanovac proposed this law, over 50 lives in Serbia. So I ask you only one push of the button to save some of the next 50 lives in the next six months to a year. These are things that are life and human. These are the tragedies that even you face daily or meet in your neighborhood, in your municipality, and in your city. Help your fellow citizens never to repeat this, that the one registered as a bully, that the law enforcement police take away his weapons immediately. Because we talked about domestic violence, we talked about violence against women, and often women who are victims in most cases, but not just them. So I ask you, in this way, to try to do something good for the families in Serbia, to take care of the family in Serbia, because these are things that are, above all, life and not political. These are things that are moral, and this should not be laughed at by some member of the ruling majority and thrown away, but by really pressing the button and that this law should finally be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22862	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a draft law on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22863	Thank you, President of the National Assembly. I was, as well as all my opposition colleagues, against the interstate agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the UAE, for the simple reason that it is a roof law that allows for the robbery of state resources and the country in the city of Belgrade, in Serbia, when it comes also to agricultural land in Vojvodina. This law allows a private investor who is close to the SNS summit with all the privileges given to him by the majority in this House to be a privileged investor, which means he gets everything for free, not to invest a single dinar, and everything that is built, to pay for it by citizens who are underprivileged and on their pensions. So that is what is the essence of the mistake you have committed and which Serbia has been defeated, disgraced and impoverished. For that reason, I appeal to you, I'm not sure you'll do it because the benefits of this are directly and directly the top of the SNS. But I guess it's not all that's being told is true, which is that you're the only one living better, while citizens are living worse and poorer. It is very important to enable, in a way, the equality of all investors in Serbia, not only those who are your friends, but also that citizens of Serbia who are investors, domestic businessmen and domestic owners of certain capital can do so tomorrow. What happened at the end? In the end, we had "Belgrade on Water", as a failed project, which is written today, we have one building that never ends, for the fifth year you can't finish one single building in the area of the Sava amphitheater. Dragan Sutanovac and former Minister Oliver Dulic built 5,000 apartments in Stepa Stepanovic in just two or three years and then Mayor Dragan Djilas. I think it's very important for these examples to see the results as they were and what they are today. You can't build 3,500 euros a square today and speak to Serbian citizens – well, that's for you. Which one of them has the money to buy an apartment of 3,500 euros per square? You promised 300 euros per square, offering apartments of 3,500 euros per square. That's a lie. Do you really think citizens are crazy? Of course they're not crazy and of course you can't do it that way, and you won't be able to run this country for the next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22864	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: there is no one with abstention for – 17, against – one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Balsa Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – the draft law on additions to the labour law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22865	It's a popularly called youth employment law. These are some of the topics we've chosen together with our colleagues from the Parliament Club, because we think they're a young future. In no way will we suggest or do anything that will encourage them to get out and get out of this country, and that happens year after year in a larger and larger number. Fifty thousand work permits were issued by the Labour Agency in Germany last 2016 for Serbia, for Bosnia and for Macedonia, in 2015 issued 16,000 work permits. One year later, 50,000 work permits. I want to tell you that the number of people coming out of Serbia is increasing dramatically year after year. This is a law that stimulates young people to think that they might stay in this country, that it is not all party and party employment, that it is not all about relationships, when it comes to local officials, when it comes to government officials, when it comes to officials in the Republika Srpska Assembly, that it is not possible to hire more than 250 party SNS staff, who have no school, who have bought diplomas, and those who have honestly graduated from high school, to study honestly to have them as the only alternative being either the street or leaving Serbia. Therefore, the law on youth employment through changes and additions to the labour law is very important because we stimulate that both in high schools and in colleges is a practice that will be paid, that young people will be more competitive in the labour market during their studies and during schooling, it would be good to have both a certain bang and to know what a job they apply or a profession they want to deal with looks like. I think this is a way for them to be stimulated to stay in Serbia and to use their knowledge and their energy in Serbia, not Germany, not Austria, not to say that none of them are going to Russia at all, although many of you have measured what society should look like tomorrow. What matters here is that the law applies to those aged 15 to 30. The government of the Republic of Serbia would give 50m euros at an annual level, and this law would primarily stimulate them to be informally employed, to become formally employed tomorrow, to be able to use privileges such as bank accounts, such as loans, like many other things they absolutely cannot do today, or can only dream of.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22866	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Ambassador Balša Bozovic proposed that the agenda be completed by the sitting – Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the establishment of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water". Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22867	Thank you. It's a Lex special. I don't mean to sound immodest, but I am proud that the Democratic Party's parliamentary club, along with a few other independent MPs, was the only anti-lex specialis and the adoption of a Lex specialis at the time of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We've always been against it because it's not possible what actually happened and of course that injustice will be corrected. "Belgrade on Water" is designed for corruption, namely pumping out money from citizens of Belgrade and Serbian citizens, on the one hand and changing our identity. Some MPs said Dubai was one of the most beautiful cities in Europe. They're e.g. Socially support this project and this law, but what is happening in Belgrade is the fact that Belgrade will never be like Dubai, because it is not part of our cultural heritage. Our cultural heritage is a constitutional category and that's what those who want to know. Those who don't want to hear it will never hear it, unfortunately. It is part of our cultural heritage and Lex specialises in breaking all the system laws and many points of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You have a majority, so change the Constitution. Bring in that cultural heritage is actually the legacy of the United Arab Emirates in Serbia but does not inherit culturally and our cultural heritage, because there is no other way that this insolence that you have adopted in the National Assembly is allowed in this way, except that you absolutely do not care, what is our history, what is our culture, what is our nation, is the most important thing that someone there takes land worth billions of euros, that in some way is financed from the pockets of citizens and the budget of the Republic of Serbia, someone's private bar, someone's private shopping mall, some building that has 3500 euros per square, 3500 euros per square, and you say that this is a public good, the tycoons that have bought these apartments are public good for you, but they are not public good for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they will only have a cost, every baby in Serbia that is born over 1000 euros in this project, because of which you have been born to the public with 1000 people who are born of the Republic. Thank you. (Marian Risticevic: And what have you done in life? ) (Radoslav Milojičić: Can you warn these of what they are earning? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22868	You haven't heard what MP Balsa Bozovic was saying, it's good for the ears. These insults we've been hearing ever since he started proposing it to the ears. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Listen to what's being said here and how people get muddy around here, and how the MPs who vote get muddy. Under the Constitution, it is the right of an MP to vote in favour of, against or abstention, and for hours we have listened to insults on the subject and then you are sensitive when someone makes a loud comment. (Marinika Tepic: Well, cursing.) Don't swear, don't make it up. I'd be ashamed to say such words here, I've ruined the country in the last 20 years as you ruled. Thank you for helping with that, Ambassador Jerkov. You were the president of parliament when Igor Pavlicic took part in it. (Alexandra Jerkov: I did not help. I'm sorry. Yeah, I can apologize, unlike you. I'd like to hear you apologize once. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The proposal by MEP Balša Bozovic is to supplement the agenda with the draft law to amend the law on contributions to mandatory social security. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22869	This is also the second part of the youth employment law. The law provides for a steppe rate of contribution for compulsory social security, so it is for the youngest lowest and then increases with the number of years of life, up to thirty years when it is 30%. What the proposal is, is to stimulate employers. We've been testing this bill right on them, because it's cheaper for them to hire a young man without a job experience than to get cash out and get paid on black. And it is much more important to them, and I suppose, to inspect the work would be much more useful, and I suppose to the government of the Republic of Serbia, if it wants to prevent young people from leaving Serbia. We've had a lot of debates, we've had a lot of conversations with young people. You have those who are the best, the best young in their professions, in science competitions, in science debates, in science Olympics, won first place. As long as they're in high school, big international companies are trying to attract them in advance by giving them certain scholarships. Is it possible that the most valuable resource in Serbia, smart young people, is more concerned by foreign companies than the Government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by the SNS? How is it possible for foreign companies to give certain incentives, to grant certain scholarships, to lead young people to the best universities from secondary schools in Serbia, and that the government of the Republic of Serbia and SNS absolutely does not account for it? I know you're ashamed of these young people who are smart and who have success already in high schools, because they didn't buy their knowledge and didn't buy their diplomas. They have studied hard, and they have already won one life match that you, gentlemen of the SNS, have lost, because the largest and most valuable resource of Serbia step on it, spit on it, humiliate it, throw it out of Serbia and sell it for cheap money. You give up knowledge because you know that the one who owns knowledge is the greatest danger to you. Well, you won't be able to do it much longer, because you can't get young people out of Serbia and that's what's the greatest paradox of your way of ruling. The young will stay in their country, the young will change the bad government and make Serbia the country they want to live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22870	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying, for -14, against - no one with abstentions is there. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be completed with the dots – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22871	Thank you. When it comes to pensions, it is a right acquired, we have spoken of it many times in all possible discussions concerning the rights of man, above all, its inalienable right of property, or property that it has over its property. The property here is threatened in a way that you took something from someone, like if someone took a TV from their house, like if someone took a refrigerator from their house, like if they took someone's washing machine from their house. I know you don't care, because you have money to live in apartments of 3,500 euros per square, that you have hundreds of bathrooms, hundreds of kitchens, washing machines, televisions, etc., but citizens who have earned their money honestly and honestly are entitled to only one television set. And this is the one you wanted to take out of their hands. A million and seven hundred pensioners are in Serbia today. For 700,000 of them, you designed to rob them so that your private projects, such as "Belgrade on Water", would be paid out of these reduced pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22872	Ambassador, stop insulting me. Stop insulting me. Explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22873	I don't insult pensioners. You insult them for cutting their pensions. I'm just saying that the temporarily reduced ones should return.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22874	No, you insult all of us. You insult me personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22875	No, not you. I'm talking about pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22876	I'm not a pensioner, but you insult me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22877	You did not reduce your wages, but you reduced their pensions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22878	Ambassador, don't argue. Don't insult me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22879	I'm not fighting, absolutely, I'm telling the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22880	You insult most MPs here in parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22881	I'm telling the truth that pensioners today in Serbia can't pay property tax. Pensioners can't be treated. Pensioners can't pay their living expenses, their medications, they can't give allowance to grandchildren, grandchildren, they can't drive cars because they don't have money from their pension for fuel. They can't absolutely have a good diet. They can't keep up with culture or absolutely with the money they have visiting cultural events, because they don't have any money for absolutely nothing. And you sentenced them to life imprisonment, without the right to pardon, and these people built this town.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22882	I'm gonna give you the right to hurt the Rules of Procedure, and then I'm thinking about taking a break. This can't do this anymore. This has lost all meaning. It is no longer related to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which provided for the proposal of the agenda and the addition of the agenda. This is for the direct insults of most MPs sitting here in parliament. I'm not fit, I'm an ordinary man, I'm emotional, if someone's been giving insults here all day to the MPs that we're thieves, that we're criminals, that we're condemning someone to a life sentence, emotionally, simply, I can't have a session. If this keeps up, good luck next time. This really doesn't make sense. (Radoslav Milojic: Call the elections. If you want to, you'll look at it, but it's not a problem for us. I'm very tolerant of having a session. I'm gonna start interrupting because this doesn't make any sense anymore. This is not in line with the Rules of Procedure. No one explains the bill we have in front of us anymore, no one. Insult, insult, insult, spit, insult, insult. I can't run a session like this. Think about it and I'll really think about it. There's not much of a suggestion yet, it's not a problem, we'll hold on, but really, this doesn't look like anything anymore, it doesn't look like anything. Now that someone has proposed a serious law, no one would take it seriously anymore. You explain by insulting people. Well, who's gonna vote for it? Yes, ten votes “for. ” That doesn't make any sense. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22883	Thank you. I'm suggesting a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. (Radoslav Milojic: We didn't vote on this. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22884	Well, wait, there'll be a vote. Excuse me, was there a quorum before the vote? It can, and this can't. How? Stop it, really. Let me run the session. Here, now there will be a point in changing me, so my God, if you have enough votes, you will replace me. But don't shout and direct the session. I'm sorry, MP, I didn't listen to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22885	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Gojkovic, a member of 107 has been injured. All day long, SNS MPs have listened to the worst possible insults on their own account, at the expense of their party, at the expense of Alexander Vukic. We didn't steal anything. I can't buy an apartment in "Belgrade on Water". Marijan Risticevic can't buy. Dragan Sutanovac can buy an apartment in "Belgrade on Water", he can buy both buildings built in "Belgrade on Water". Balsa Bozovic, who complains about children who don't care for buns, he and his father can buy both buildings in "Belgrade on Water". Mr. Bozovic, since you gave us a lecture...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22886	Ambassador, just talk to me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22887	So here I am now offering to Mr Bozovic, to bring his index from the university, I will bring mine, I will bring Alexander Vukic's index, so let the whole of Serbia know and let the whole of Serbia see who was a student and whose side Serbia's mind is on. Whether on the side of those who have ruined both the state and the military and the police and the economy, who have carried out a robbery privatisation or is Serbia's mind, or the young Serbian side of Aleksandar Vukic, on the side of SNS, are on the side of those who drag Serbia forward from the mud that Dragan Sutanovac, Balsa Bozovic, Vuk Jeremic, Sasa Jankovic and similar to them. So please don't let the agenda be complemented turn into the continuation of the worst possible insults... Radoslav Milojic: Time. )......................................................................................................... Otherwise all SNS MPs will raise the Rules of Procedure and reciprocate... (Radoslav Milojic): It's been two minutes. )......................................................................................................... In the words of the bandits, criminals and thieves who have ruined Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22888	I try to run a session and respect all MPs. You heard what I said and I really can't lead. Please, MPs. Ambassador Martinovic, please, do you want us to vote? No, I don't. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22889	I'm advertising a breach of Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure. - The president of the National Assembly represents the National Assembly, a second position - the president of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. You had to react to what we heard from the previous speaker, who was advertised by the Rules of Procedure, and you allowed him to comment on the private life of other MPs and thus violated other members of the Rules of Procedure, because I think today you have been more tolerant and shown your different attitude towards the MPs of the opposition and MPs of the position, especially to the head of the parliamentary group who had just advertised the Rules of Procedure, talked about everything else, except for the Rules of Procedure. Mr Balša Bozovic explained his bill. You had to let us vote on that bill. In this way, you have influenced the Parliament's decision, because in the meantime you have given the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure, rather than, following the interpretation of its proposal for a law, access to that vote and determine whether the bill is accepted. So you're aware yourself that you've broken the Rules of Procedure this time, and that's not the first time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22890	MP, all day, this morning since 10:00, we've been trying to determine the agenda. It is the right of MPs to propose amendments to the agenda. It's a right, but it's not the right for someone to explain their proposal to supplement the agenda in an offensive way for all of us. That's what's been happening this morning since 10:00. It's not the first time, but it's getting worse and worse. I know you won't agree, because you don't want to get to the truth that every story has two sides. You talk only and always about one side, and you don't see or hear yourself. So you've been insulting MPs who voted for individual laws all day, insulting the president of the state and insulting many other politicians and public figures, and I don't know who you haven't mentioned yet, and we haven't heard anything about the bill's proposals. I try as hard as I can, but it is indeed the amount of offensive expressions spoken by MP Balša Bozovic... This so far, somehow, but what Balsa Bozovic says is crossing all the boundaries of someone's decent and fair play in politics. Someone can't keep saying that someone's a thief and someone's stealing and someone's doing something to make us all rich. I would trade with MP Balša Bozovic, as far as material status is concerned, and it offends me, it really offends me. (Balsa Bozovic: When would you change? Now. Take everything I have and I'll take your property. Now, get out of the pay. (Balsa Bozovic: Can you? Will you? Say sorry to the MPs. No, we're not at the bar. It's not funny. There are us who aren't funny, we're not cynical. I can't be cynical. I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. I will interrupt anyone who continues to insult the MPs. You're proposing laws, but don't insult anyone in this country. We'll vote, but I don't see what I've done here and how I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure this morning since 10:00 p.m. when I'm calmly listening to everything today. I think the Administrative Board should seriously study this Rules of Procedure, determine all the shortcomings and really take this work seriously. You don't run away from the election. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22891	Mr President, I think you've violated Article 108's order at the session of the old President of the National Assembly, and I can quote another member. Articles 106 and 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22892	Art. It was 106th and 107th.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22893	I also said Article 108. Publicly, in front of the media, since I was just accused of having an apartment in Vračar, every property outside of Smederevska Palanka, which is led to me, my mother, father, grandmother, wife and two born sisters, will be immediately donated. There's really no point in telling such lies anymore. I understand a little bit, and I sometimes go too far, but to accuse someone like that, it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22894	Okay. I think you've realized how terrible it is when someone's making some accusations, and we've been listening all day to Alexander Vukic doing something to get him off the hook, and I don't know what good he's doing. Now you've figured out what this is about. Do you understand? Then don't do it. I ask the MPs to move on. If we can't, my God, see you tomorrow, if we don't see each other the day after tomorrow, it doesn't matter to me. I'd like to take it seriously, really. I'd like an MP to try and work. I put to the vote what MP Balsa Bozovic has proposed. That was 20 minutes ago. You heard the explanation. Here, vote. I conclude the vote: there is no vote for – 13 against – one with abstention – no vote. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Serbia's Army. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22895	Thank you. This law was proposed by me, and indeed in consultation with General Sreto Malinović, I gave this explanation. As one of the heroes of many wars in the 1990s, a great professional and pilot who had the opportunity to face a more powerful enemy in 1999, he advised that the situation in the military was not good and that legal solutions must be improved between the other and the material condition of the soldiers. In the assembly, of course, there are other generals like Mr. Delic, who also understand what this is about. A soldier in Serbia is humiliated today. A soldier in Serbia has a salary with which he cannot buy an apartment, and the state does not guarantee it, he cannot provide. A soldier in Serbia today is in a situation that he simply cannot pay his bills. He can't feed his family. He can't educate his children, and these are the problems facing today by those who have defended our country and who, God forbid, will be able to defend our country again, but also security and security. The country is threatened by this material state of the military, the laws that exist, and they do not agree with each other, many measures that are no longer understood in the military, and during Mr. Sutanovac's time as defence minister, were meant when I was a Mr. Sutanovac - is it possible and is sure that he will manage to carry out the professionalisation of the military and to abolish the regular service of the military deadline, I was then skeptical, and he assured me that even if you are committed and worthy of doing so, it is possible for the Serbian Army to look like the best armies in the region and Europe. However, the situation is much worse today, the situation is much worse for their lives. Just soldiers don't have their own apartment, they don't have their own house. I don't have my own apartment, and my father doesn't own his own apartment. My family has no apartment unlike Mr. Martinovic or the Vukic brothers...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22896	Ambassador, I'm giving you a warning because this really doesn't make sense. It's an honor. (Balsa Bozovic: Can I finish? You can't. You can't insult, you can't finish. You can't do that. He can't. There, it just can't. What has nothing to do with the law. The Rules of Procedure will be respected. Keep your personal insults by the street. It doesn't make sense. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I ask the MPs not to plead at all because this is no bill of law. This is a game of Rules of Procedure. What's to vote on? About the series of insults. It doesn't make sense. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22897	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an extremely important law. This is an extremely important law, as is the defence system, an extremely important system for both us and the whole country. I immediately say that I do not expect in the debate that the SNS and its coalition partners will accept the proposed amendments and additions of the Defence Act because we know what the relationship between the SNS towards the defence system and the overall defence system is because the SNS has appointed Mr. Alexander Vulin and Mr. Bratislava Gasic as the BIA director. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97(1), paragraphs 4, 6 and 9. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is scheduled for Serbia to now regulate and ensure the defence and security of all its citizens in general. The Defence Act is insufficient and does not provide answers to essential questions. One of the reasons for this is the obsolescence of basic strategic documents, but also the neglect of current security situations both in the country where we live, in Serbia, and in the region where we live. It is necessary to establish an agreement with other laws, above all with the Emergency Act. I am proud of the people who have worked on the amendments and additions of the Law on Defence with me, and of Mr. Peter Radojčić, General, and General Sreto Malinović, and I really don't know what is controversial and the changes of eight members proposed by DS. I do not really know what is controversial except that these amendments and additions to the Law on Defence are proposed by the DS and what is disputed in Article 1 where basic strategic documents and the Strategy for National Security of the Republic of Serbia, the Strategy for Defence of the Republic of Serbia and the Doctrine of the Serbian Army are said to be in the field of non-military exports, risks and threats. I don't really know what's controversial in the position of the 4th, which is changing and it says -- that the basic planning documents are the use of the defence plan of the Republic of Serbia, whose administrative components are part of the plan to use Serbia's Army, the plan to mobilise Serbia's military and implement the defence plans, except that it's controversial for you from the SNS because every one of your defence ministers, which is new, is worse than your old defence minister you've proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22898	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Ambassador Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments and addition of the Law on the financing of local self-government. Here you go. The word is Milorad Mircic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22899	I'm advertising an injury. 104 and 108. What's interesting is that when each session is held, there is one pre-prepared scenario. In fact, the MPs here are called directly by name and last name, which is prohibited by the Rules of Procedure, but we in the SRS do not want to be naive and not to point out to the public what this is all about. Obviously, it's a lot of preparations for early parliamentary elections, so they fit in with this Belgrade vote, and then you've always got some on call who's gonna make some noise here in the Assembly by getting the president upset, and the public will think you're polarized on two sides. You're not polarized. You're the same ideology, same politics, same everything, and don't distract us anymore...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22900	Ambassador, what you're saying has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You feel free to discuss politics when it is, but I'm not the same. They really piss me off with insults and I'm going to run the Rules of Procedure... I guess I got the hardest job in the country after working in the mine, and that's to do the Rules of Procedure. I would, but I don't know how. Radoslav Milojic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22901	Local self-government? Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, local self-government, i.e. municipalities and cities in Serbia have been in an extremely difficult situation for six years. Local self-government has experienced that the SNS took away five billion just the previous years. Local self-government has experienced that in five years, SNS has taken away over 50 billion of its unprofessional and arrogant governments. Local self-government i.e. The presidents of municipalities and mayors are aware that every day they have to call the SNS, tell them if they will make any investments, who will conduct the investment, who can answer the tender, who can't answer the tender. This is a direct abuse of the will of citizens in all local self-governments and DS proposes amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government because, regardless of their religious, national, political belongings, whether they live in Surdulica or live in Subotica, where the mayor of SNS bullied, beat us, I guess he wanted to draw his throat out to his political and party friend. The Democratic Party is proposing a concrete measure, which is to return five billion dinars to local self-government as long as the SNS took away only the previous years. The European Charter, which Serbia has just ratified in 2007, which you, who were now on the other hand, voted against, and now we understand why you voted against the European Charter, guarantees every local self-government political, administrative and financial independence. No local self-government in Serbia has political or financial independence. All local self-government, as well as government, as well as all ministries, as well as all institutions in this country, depends on the will of one man, is the will of Alexander Vukic and whether he will wake up that morning in favour of Kragujevac, favoring Nis or Surdulica, to whom local self-government will be given financial resources. How is it in the EU? In the EU, half of budget revenues belong to local self-government, while in Serbia, unfortunately, only 10.8% belong to local self-governments and AP Vojvodina. As I said, since 2012, you have taken away 50 billion dinars from the citizens, and your expert in the King opens a traffic light, and your expert in Leskovac opens a tap in the cemetery. It's investment and it's the mayors of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22902	Thanks, time. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Information and Media. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Please, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22903	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm signing up, but the system seems to be down again. This is an extremely important amendment to the law and, as you can see so far, the government is changing, unfortunately for the citizens of Serbia, the power is variable in the peaceful democratic course, only in 2012 when the government lost DS. Whenever the government lost those from the SPS or the radicals, i.e. Now the SNS, the government was not variable in a legitimate and democratic way, and precisely DS therefore proposes amendments and additions to the Information Act. As Nikola Pasic said, when they brought him the law and asked his associates what is the law, they answered him, so he will never forgive you. He said -- bring back that law, that law is bad. So I ask you all to give together representatives from your parliamentary groups, so that we can arrange a system of public information. You've turned off "Novine Vranjska", you've turned off "The impression of the week", you're harassing every television that's kind to you, but not as much as you want it to be. So if you're not afraid of fair and democratic elections, then why not adopt these amendments to the Information Act? Why don't we sort out the Information Act? You won't be in power forever. Not all televisions, honor of exceptions, will be able to write praises about Alexander Vukic, how he at one point saves children in Feketic, how he is the most beautiful, how he is the best.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22904	MP, let's talk about the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22905	On the bill, here, if the problem is what the DS is proposing, I'm not the only one who proposes these amendments and the additions of the law, we can agree and consensually settle this issue. Very soon you will lose both the Belgrade and parliamentary elections, so I ask you to arrange this area until it is too late for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22906	MP, about the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22907	Please, Your Honor, I know that your arguments are not in your favor, but don't interrupt me every 15 seconds, because I'm not really a confusing nature, and I won't be confused, so please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22908	I won't interrupt you, but you didn't quote Nikola Pasic well, he didn't say that. He said, "What kind of English are you?" That's what I am. And what you said doesn't exist. It's just not true. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The replicas don't exist in this case, unfortunately. The breach of the Rules of Procedure is second, the replicas do not exist at the submission of the proposal. The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22909	Mrs Gojkovic, you have violated several members of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 27, then Rule 93, then 104 and Article 107. To say that in this part of the session there is no right to replica is absurd. That would mean that Martinovic, as he unfortunately did a little bit, without any sanctions to say to DS MPs that they are thugs, criminals and thieves.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22910	What's the injured Rules of Procedure? Which is where I hurt my ankle. 27, Art. 93, Art. Article 104 107?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22911	Here, I'll explain. So, Mr Milojic said a lot in his presentation, among other things, that the representatives of the SRS were violently coming to power and that when they left power they did not leave in a peaceful manner. He obviously has amnesia, but his problem is at all the DS that the amnesia cannot spread to all Serbian citizens. If you have something against SNS representatives, and how can they be better when you've made them, they can't be better real.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22912	Ambassador, don't enter the replica, there's no replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22913	The other thing, Mr. Bozovic, is so...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22914	I turned off your microphone because you came out of the form of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I didn't hurt a single member of 27, or a member of 93, or a member of 104, or a member of 107, and a direct address to the MPs is forbidden, and you started it. Thank you. Do you want us to vote on the injuries of these members? You don't want to or want to? No, you do, thank you. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Social Protection Act. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22915	Thank you, Mr. President. A little digression, so Nikola Pasic didn't have just one thought that you said earlier, he had more, but it's not a theme now. With respect to all other amendments and additions to the laws proposed by the entire opposition and myself as an MP of the DS, I think that this amendment and addition of the Social Protection Act is extremely important, if not the most important. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Articles 97 point 8) and DS, I, as an MP of the DS, propose three concrete measures. The first is that all students whose parents do not work from the Republic of Serbia's budget are provided free transport, free lunch is provided to all students whose parents do not work from the Republic of Serbia's budget and free textbooks are provided to all students whose parents do not work from the Republic of Serbia's budget. I don't know if you know the fact that 50,000 children who are covered by primary and secondary education are hungry every day, 50,000 children are hungry every day, while tycoons like Zvonko Veseinovic and Nikola Petrovic spend every day destroying Serbia. That's not the kind of Serbia I want, which is what the DS fought for and what the DS is fighting for today. Unfortunately, we have not long ago a situation and a case of a boy from Moll who, first of all, left the third grade high school in Vienna because he didn't have the money to pay for a ride home from school...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22916	Please don't abuse your children at the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22917	And he had no one to provide him. After that, that boy, unfortunately, took his own life. In 2015, please don't interrupt me first, is...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22918	I have to hang up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22919	... in the total population of Serbia, only 17.3%. The Democratic Party proposes a concrete solution to the problem, too, the DS suggests that the finance ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia finance free out-of-body fertilisation for all parents who cannot be realised in the role. Serbia is unfortunately the leader of the region, but only at the risk of poverty. We can build bridges, we can build roads, but we can't let our kids get hungry in 2017. Therefore, I ask you to adopt these amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act so that all children, whether their parents work or do not work, have a normal schooling, have lunch at school, have a free ride from home to school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22920	I'm putting the motion to put this item on the agenda of this session. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Police Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22921	President, I don't know if this just doesn't work for me or if you want to shut me up, but it's not possible. I've been proposing amendments and additions to the Police Act for over a year as the MP of the DS. Then the ruling majority of SNS wonders why they have police on the street – because you do not want to accept changes and additions to such a law. Because you have humiliated the standard of living of all citizens, especially members of the police. The constitutional basis for amending and supplementing the Police Act is contained in the provision of Article 97(4). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the DS and I, as its MP, are now proposing these changes and additions because the situation in the MUP is extremely bad. The state of the MUP is so bad that the SNS first honoured all members of the MUP by reducing the salary of 10%. Then the SNS also treats all the members of the MUP and reduces the dinars to 150 dinars, so that the member who spends all day risking his life provides us with our border on those 150 dinars can buy one cider, yoghurt or burek. Not together. Two key points are in the amendments to the Police Act. The first is that the ministry must determine the needs of the system needed to establish a working relationship in the MUP. Today we have a situation that young, educated and educated personnel who finish the Police Academy do not have safe employment in the organs of the MUP. The Democratic Party suggests that all students who finish the Police Academy are automatically admitted to work and start a working relationship at the MUP, because, unfortunately, for six years now, there has been some sort of Dijana Hrkalovic, who has not passed the Police Academy or some police school. The second important point is that the provision of Article 172, point 2. The law on police is destroying the prejudgment of innocence. We propose a concrete solution, we suggest that Article 172 point 2 be deleted. This means that against a member of the police who is honest and honest, who finds some chairman of the board or vice president of the SNS in some murky business, even some Martinovic can file criminal charges and that man is automatically away from work, which is wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22922	Well, can't it go without an insult? (Radoslav Milojic: Who have I offended? ( b) What would a messenger be? I'm putting this motion to the vote. Now MP Martinovic is worth less than you, what? You didn't say, for example. someone rather than even Martinovic someone can. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Serbian Army.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22923	Thank you, Madam President. I'm glad you're sensitive to the mention of Mr. Martinovic who wasn't in a negative context...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22924	Explain the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22925	Yes, I will. You didn't think of a moment ago when he was putting out lies on my account and on DS, but good. The Democratic Party has proposed amendments and additions to 18 points on amendments to the Military Act. That's what people who have their integrity suggest. That is what Mr. Sreto Malinović, General Radojicic, suggested. Please, if there is anyone in the SNS MP's club, who wants to take this amendment seriously and supplement the law, it is not important which parliamentary group will propose these amendments and additions, but rather please look at the proposed amendments and additions to the Military Act. First of all, it is necessary to bring the Army Act into line with the Defense Act. It is not normal in 2017 that a country such as Serbia that has such a famous military past has not been in line with the two laws, has not agreed the Military Act with the Defence Act. The military was once the most trusted institution in which Serbian citizens. Today, this military, unfortunately, is being commanded by Alexander Vulin by the SNS, and it is not disputed that he served not the army but because he is not competent to perform that function. The military is today an institution where 72% of its members earn less than the average earnings in Serbia. The military today, unfortunately, whose 82% of the members who left the military in 2016 did so on a personal request. The military was once the most trusted institution of citizens, and today the army is an institution to escape from. You've managed to provide the moments you're now talking about, which we don't know how they got to Serbia, we don't know how old they are, we don't know how much they cost. Is it necessary to improve the Serbian Army's defence system? Yes, it is. And is it in such a non-transparent way? No, it's not. The Democratic Party has had the best defence minister in the last 20 years, the minister who has professionalised Vojska, the minister who built 5,000 apartments for just two years in Stepa Stepanovic's settlement, while you cannot build 20 apartments in "Belgrade on Water"...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22926	Your Honor, this is not the party of political parties. (Radoslav Milojic: Why did you shut me out? ) Because you must propose laws on amendments and additions to the Law on the Serbian Army. There's nothing in the law. I read it. (Radoslav Milojic: There are 18 members. There's nothing in the law. I'm putting the bill to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no vote for – 13 against – one with abstention – no vote. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The word is Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22927	Madam President, a member of the 106s was injured because the DS MPs are not talking about the agenda point at all, but are brutally insulting the SNS. Since they are doing so, I will say because of the citizens of Serbia that in the time of Dragan Sutanovac, 500 tanks and hoodies, 220 armored vehicles, tens of thousands of small arms were destroyed, 1,200 "Strela Type 2", 1,100 anti-aircraft cannons, 26 multiple rocket launchers M63 were destroyed. The military was destroyed and so, Mrs Gojkovic, it was the First Basic Court in Belgrade that on 28 January 2013, Mr Dragan Sutanovac owned 56,838 dinars on the account of the Commercial Bank 5,658 euros on the account of the Commercial Bank on the day 28. 01. In 2013, 6:127 U.S. dollars, that Marija Sutanovac owns 90 000 euros in her account at Hipo Alpe Adria Bank, that Dragan Sutanovac has a savings stake at the Bank "Intez" of 200,000 euros, that Marija Sutanovac in cash owns 85,000 euros in the bank's account, all from the salary acquired, and that Dragan Sutanovac has an armed savings stake with the Bank "Intez" of 99,324 euros, as well as that Dragan Sutanovac owns artistic paintings, watches and weapons, and Marija Sutanovac jewelry. When you wonder why during Dragan Sutanovac, the army collapsed, tanks were drowned, but were therefore filled and how the defence minister Dragan Sutanovac was spared.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22928	Do you consider this to be a violation of the Rules of Procedure in which I participated? (No) Thank you. (Radoslav Milojic: Rules of Procedure. Here you go. According to the Rules of Procedure, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22929	Thank you. I'm advocating article 108 to be held at the session of the old president of the National Assembly. I'm glad Mr. Martinovic, after years, is a series of disgusting lies... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22930	Ambassador, we're not going to replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22931	I'm not replicating. I have two minutes to explain the injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22932	It has nothing to do with Martinovic. He's got me. Will you let me run the session?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22933	Let me explain?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22935	Madam President, I think you've been obliged to interrupt the previous speaker, no matter what he read the acquittal and... (Vladimir Orlic: Which member? Are you going to let me, or are you going to let them get it? I said a member at the beginning. There's no sign of a member. For truth's sake, "Sartid" melts carbon steel, and tanks are made... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22936	I shut you down, so you didn't hear this. (Radoslav Milojic: It is very fair of you, thank you. Yeah, it's fair of me. (Radoslav Milojic: Let us read about someone's women. That doesn't make sense. I have been listening all day to the fiction and defamation of the messengers. (Radoslav Milojic: To read something about Alexander Vukic's wife. That doesn't make sense. Read whatever you want. You've been reading all day. (Radoslav Milojic): Read about someone's women, so it really doesn't make sense. I don't have any words, don't throw it away. Just take five minutes, and we'll think about what to do. Don't knock on the table. I run the session, I try to run it, you don't let me, so it's my turn to give myself a five-minute break. [[after breaks]] Let's move on. I'll wait for Kiric to come, so it doesn't turn out I don't want to discuss my resignation, I can't wait, I can't wait, I can't wait. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law prohibiting manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organisations and associations and prohibiting the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and markings. Does a messenger want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22938	Yes, I want a word, but I also have the right under Article 88(7) to express my doubts about the existence of a quorum and I would ask you to establish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22939	No, it's just a letter has to be one plus and everything else is fine. (Alexander Martinovic: Majo, it was already the Rules of Procedure ten times. He can't do the same article again. No, it wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was a quorum to determine. The screen shows we have 133 MPs. Please, MPs, don't make a circus. So, please explain, I don't really have any other way to fool around here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22940	I'm sorry that I'm falling for it now, or I'm getting over it, and it's like you're sharing further anger and anger here, and I'm really in the mood to wait until this morning to explain my few draft laws to supplement the agenda, but you can see for yourself the presidents that there are cards in the hall that have been inserted, and there's no room. I'll continue to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22941	We've established the quorum, don't make every session a circus. Do you want to explain your agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22942	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22943	So don't do an obstruction that's so obvious.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22944	Please, just don't accuse me of obstruction.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22945	So you want it or you don't want it? We were trying to determine the quorum. Not every five seconds can determine the quorum. It's a circus.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22946	Can I have my time?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22947	Thank you. I'm putting on a vote on the agenda. That's enough of this circus. He writes everything in the Rules of Procedure, what he can do, what he can't do and how many times he can. Just two votes. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Thank you very much. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of Maja Gojkovic from the post of National Assembly President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22948	This proposal we made to the National Assembly and you accepted it on 13 April 2017, where it was declared, I will remind you that you are eager to put yourself on the agenda and discuss this agenda point. At that moment, we gave an explanation, signed MPs, and I'll read it briefly. So, by suspending the work of the National Assembly during the presidential campaign, the president of parliament severely violated dignity and reduced the importance of the National Assembly and violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Second, the president of the National Assembly also injured Article 104, 106. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 19. Law on the National Assembly, as well as Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which define the authority of the president of the National Assembly, led to the blockade of the work of the National Assembly during and after the election campaign for the election of the President of the Republic, by assessing that the Assembly will not work for the sake of stability of Maja Gojkovic and confirmed that it also considers the Assembly a source of instability and would join those who would like everything in Serbia to shut up. So that was an explanation that was most directly related to your conduct and your leadership during the presidential campaign. Certainly, this statement that for you the Assembly is a source of instability is something that speaks about the relationship to this home, but also to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have elected and voted MPs in the National Assembly. There were many reasons and confirmations, apparently and this session today shows an atmosphere that depends primarily on the ruling majority and, of course, next to all of us, here I will start from us MPs, the highest level of responsibility for the atmosphere in the Assembly and the way you work. Today, we have another example that I will give and which speaks of the way the Assembly is run, both you and your vice presidents when they sit at the chair. And today, we've had examples of violations of the codes of conduct of the MPs on the limits of being allowed to comment on court decisions and proceedings. This is a document proposed by the Administrative Board, which insisted on the way in which the Assembly should be led and how MPs should behave, where it is said - the MP is obliged to adhere to the principle that everyone is considered innocent until his guilt is determined by a judicial decision. Both today and in previous sessions, you have tolerated MPs who have read the liberating judgments of other fellow Members. I think that's another reason why we should put this agenda item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22949	Time. Thank you. I completely agree with you. I've tolerated everything today. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – two abstentions – there are no, 138 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The word has Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22950	Thank you, President. I believe you've injured Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, under which we are obliged to work, and you too to take care of its application, in paragraph 2, because you have just given me, and not giving me the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure immediately, denied the right to explain the amendment proposal and to supplement the agenda. You didn't hear me sound good when I was talking, they were still getting mixed up, walking and yelling, colleagues and colleagues, no matter where. You weren't even ready to hear what I'm saying, let alone give me my intended three minutes in the Rules of Procedure to explain the law. You know very well that you did, and at this point I really don't care whether you're in effect or not or whether you're emotional or not. We're all emotional. You've got a desk chairing at least three other, next to you, vice presidents who can replace you at any moment. I have no doubt that your work is difficult. It's very often very difficult for all of us. I'm also a woman and I share emotions like you, but that doesn't mean you have to practice and train injustice and dishonesty towards MPs who have really behaved appropriately. For the first time today, I asked for a quorum to be determined, and you took away my right to explain a proposal to amend and supplement the agenda through your laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22951	Thank you. I didn't hurt Article 92 at all, even though you talked about it a little bit. My argument is never that I'm a woman and it's never that I'm emotional. Only the knowledge of the Rules of Procedure was at stake this time. I can't stand it when someone points out their attributes to be a woman, so they're asking her to be more or less respected in this business. So you missed the subject, but you can't search for the quorum twice in a row within three seconds when you don't like the information that there were 134 MPs. But if you think we should vote, we will vote on Article 92(2)'s injury. (Marinika Tepic: Yes. ) Thank you very much. (Marinika Tepic: Please give me back the opportunity to explain my proposal. ) The National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22952	Thank you very much. I'm just obliged to ask, although I'm going to spend some of my time, will you give me back three minutes for the previous law you denied me, to explain that too? You're not answering. I understand you won't. So, with the proposal to put on the agenda a proposal for amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, I believe that a member who was introduced as new in the Criminal Code last year should be completed, as regards the denial of genocide and war crimes is a criminal offence in the Republic of Serbia. It is commendable or similar that it can be commendable, if you do not deal with this member in a little more detail, and then you see that denial of genocide and war crimes applies only to genocide and war crimes that has been ruled by the courts in the Republic of Serbia of the International Court of Justice. I felt that this article should be complemented, so that all international courts dealing with this type of crime should be in the regime of our Criminal Code, because in another way we lead it to absurdity, that is, a hypocritical relationship with the crimes and genocide that was committed on our behalf. In order to illustrate the example that has been happening in the last few days, and not to be an example of Rwanda, as I have done in the previous few times to this same occasion, here, I will remind all colleagues that if such an amendment to the Criminal Code was adopted we would never be in a position to welcome the Minister of Military Warlin and the representative of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Nikola Selakovic, to welcome General Lazarevic, and not only to welcome him, but to Minister Vulin... People's MPs speak in the same voice. [[off microphone]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22953	A five-minute break. I'm asking the Vice Presidents of Parliament to come to my office, to discuss further work. (Marian Risticevic: Tomorrow? No, we won't tomorrow, because the dictionary of insult will be ready for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22954	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Comrade Tepic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22955	Thank you, Chairman. Since I was interrupted while explaining the proposal to put amendments and additions to the Criminal Code on the agenda, by which the criminal act of denying genocide and denying war crimes would also be in the Republic of Serbia, as it should, as far as it would apply to all judgments, all internationally recognised courts, and mainly those not covered by the current and valid member of the law, are recognised. I've begun to give a concrete example, and I'm interrupted here, I'm only asking for a little attention. So, a few days ago, we became the address for absolutely incredible news. My colleagues from the New Party and I were shocked by how General Lazarevic, not only accepted by the military minister, Vulin, was also promoted to a future lecturer at the Military Academy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22956	counterpart Tepic, do you want to continue to explain the proposal to supplement the Criminal Code? Would you like some? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22957	If this law had been amended in the way I'm asking, if the majority of the assembly were willing to gain strength and face the crimes committed on our behalf, and much of them were responsible for that policy in the '90s, this change would have been put on the agenda and there would have been a debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22958	Comrade Tepic, do you want to explain the bill? Thank you, colleague Tepic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: for – eight, against – three, with abstention – none, no vote 140. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. People's MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Games, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2016. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22959	Mr. Milicevic, you were obliged to give me your word immediately when I asked for it, and the vote went through in the meantime, and you announced a new law. I think you have a duty, first of all, to tell us what's going on in the assembly right now. Article 27 says the president of the National Assembly is representing the National Assembly, calling meetings, chairing them and doing other tasks. Mrs Gojkovic spoke to other MPs, and the speaker was turned around earlier. In accordance with Article 32, the President of the National Assembly, in the event of temporary prevention or absence, replaces one of the vice-presidents he appoints, informing all vice-presidents and secretary-generals by written means. So, is Mrs Gojkovic prevented, is she absent, what is it? Third thing, you must finally decide whether to respect the Rules of Procedure or not. This Rules of Procedure is no good, but even worse to respect it selectively, that class can't, that class can't. Determine here, I don't know, some days when the Rules of Procedure don't apply, so that anything can be done or anything can be said, but you can't let one speaker insult the worst in the world, so don't let me explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then again let Mrs. Tepic insult the worst in the world, the whole Serbian people, and talk about some genocide that was done on our behalf. So either you work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, or you back off. Come on, there's like, four, five vice presidents, let's switch until we find one who's able to work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, or change the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure don't work. This is the DS Rules of Procedure, which are using SNS MPs in the worst possible way, and there is no difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22960	Thank you, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22961	So, let us know what kind of emergency this is? What is this part of the session where everything can be done and where the Rules of Procedure is not respected?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22962	Thank you. It is precisely, in accordance with Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure, which says – the vice president of the National Assembly helps the National Assembly to do business in its work, that is exactly what I do as chairman. Are individual MPs allowed to speak about what is not, among other things, part of the draft law on amendments and amendments to the law proposed by counterpart Tepic, I think that you have all been witnesses of two, up to three times, and I have insisted that he return to what he has proposed, to return to the interpretation of the legislative proposal. I took it away, so you noticed that I went after that to a plea under the bill. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22963	I want and I want you to answer the first part of the question why the President of the National Assembly does not chair if it is present, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is mandatory.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22964	A colleague of Sarovic's, all right. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22965	The Honorable Chairman, you have allowed the violation of Articles 107, 108 and 109. Rules of Procedure. You may not have been able to prevent the violation of article 107, but you were obliged to apply article 108 and Article 109. This insolent insult to this home, the Serbian people, by calling the most frequent, the most honest, the most brave and bravest soldiers and generals of the Republic of Serbia who ever had genocide, you should not have left unpunished. This is an insult to every decent Serb. Maybe the lady who said that changed the game, but her way of thinking obviously didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22966	Comrade Komlenski, you know very well that it is very difficult to predict what the MPs will talk about, in this case the proposed addition of the law on amendments and amendments to the law. The moment I felt that through the explanation of this legislative proposal, dignity and the reputation of the National Assembly were violated, I reacted and tried to suggest to my colleague Tepic that we still have to take care of it, in fact, that it is a priority, respect for the Rules of Procedure and respect for dignity and respect for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, I also interrupted my colleague Tepic in further presentation and insisted that the National Assembly declare the proposal. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) In accordance with Article 112 of the two-minute break, to return to the agenda. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. We took a break to get... Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. No, you can't point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure right now. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Games, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2016. Does the National MP Marinika Tepic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22968	Thank you. Of course I want a word. I always want a word. It's the only thing that's the other way around when my word is taken away. The proposal to put the law on gambling on the agenda in order to change it is a very important proposal that actually has an extremely positive effect on those most vulnerable and youngest of our citizens, which are mostly children whose conditions and diseases cannot be treated in the Republic of Serbia, and which can be treated abroad, are supported by this amendment to the Law. According to the law on gambling, part of taxed gambling income, lottery revenues, poker machines, bookmakers, which are taxed, part of these revenues is poured directly into the republican budget, and the remaining 40% is distributed in some five areas, including for the treatment of conditions and diseases that cannot be treated successfully in the Republic of Serbia. However, this is compared to only 5% compared to those 40%, which is divided into these purposes by the Law on Games on Happiness. The idea and the proposal that I'm running here to all my colleagues and colleagues is that the taxed part of the games on happiness, from the lottery to the front, as I said, because it is the biggest and this lottery should not only serve night visitors from the SNS, but also for such noble goals, that this relationship is changed, not to be 60% in favour of the big one, to say the budget and 40% in relation to these smaller branches, but to 50% to go to the big budget only, and 50% to go to the Red Cross for local self-government, for sport and youth and to treat conditions and diseases that cannot be successfully treated in the Republic of Serbia, but to increase 5% of these previous 40% to 25%. Practically, that one quarter of the taxed income from gambling, to be shifted for treatment, I say, our youngest and most sensitive citizens, whose parents are very often not familiar with the information that this budget line exists, so very often, they appeal to help citizens with text messages, to humanitarian concerts, which is fine and should encourage humanitarian relations, especially when the help of the most vulnerable is needed, but simply, there is a budget line, there is an economic classification in the budget of the Republic of Serbia that is open to these purposes, and I ask that the pure profit from gambling be shifted to a greater amount for this purpose.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22969	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and I find that there is no one with abstention for – 10, against – and 144 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic... Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. We took a break to keep working, but here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22970	Mr. Milicevic, you have violated Article 103. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly which states that - the MP has the right to orally point to a violation of the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure done at the sitting, which is in progress, and immediately after the injury has been done. You told me, you have no right to harm the Rules of Procedure without listening to me, without doing anything, and now I'm going to explain how you hurt him. The fact that you gave in accordance with Article 112 of the two-minute break and that you violated the Rules of Procedure because it says so – if it is unable to hold order in another way. It's a provision that goes after the provisions that determine the ways in which order is maintained for you, by warning someone, so in extreme urgency if he kills himself, if you make a serious incident and get away from the session. Another very important thing you and the other chair are doing. So you took a two-minute break, went on after 30 seconds, and we had a five-minute break, and it continued after a minute and a half. You have no right to lead MPs astray in this way. Is the next thing we're supposed to expect, to say, a break by Tuesday next, so you can meet on Friday and run these agenda points? If you set a break for two minutes, wait two minutes, if you're 30, you have to wait 30 minutes, at any cost. The third injury that I initially suffered and reported was that you allowed Mr. Komlenski to indicate the injury that I previously pointed to, which is the injury of Marinika Tepic, who was talking about someone on behalf of the Serb people committing genocide and, most importantly, do not have the right of you from the ruling majority to own General Lazarevic, because General Lazarevic defended in the war what you teach in peace. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22971	Please, there's no reason for you to enter communication, direct communication with MPs, no need for that, no reason. So, my intention wasn't to bring, please wait, I asked that there was no direct communication and I'm trying to explain, it wasn't my intention to lead the MPs astray in any way, and on the other hand, it wasn't my intention as chairman at this point to make it impossible for anyone to speak. A colleague, Sarovic, spoke for two minutes. Wait, let me, Article 112, I'm trying to explain to you, colleague Milojicic. Article 112 is used to establish order at the session and for this very reason I gave a break to Article 112. There's another unpopular part, and these are sanctions, and I didn't want to apply them at this point, I say unpopular, because if you apply them, then the MPs of the opposition say you have double arches. We don't have double arches, we don't have double standards, we have one Rules of Procedure and we chair and we respect that one single Rules of Procedure. He is what he is, but he is the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, I don't think I've hurt the senior members of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Gojkovic, here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22972	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course you didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. This time it's Article 103. It's obvious that the MPs who called before me... If you can, Mr. President, use your authority to hold a session and establish order at this session, regardless of the tendencies of individual MPs to create chaos today at this session. I'm convinced that we're close to the truth that the MPs who keep waving at you here in front of you with injuries to the Rules of Procedure, actually, want elections. The election will be won, but not today at today's session. Please, since, under article 103, the apparent abuse of the Rules of Procedure, because MPs appear here to replicate other MPs, to insult the SNS and others, use and take two minutes of their total time for discussion, and then, please, the chairman... I expected everything, but I didn't expect the MPs to participate in chaos.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22973	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22974	So, please, and it is your duty to start punishing MPs. So we have a set of measures that can establish order, because MPs are here in this House that make chaos sensitive only to penalties that mean a reduction in wages from 10% to 40%. Please, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, start applying measures and establish order. It's the only way to communicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22975	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22976	Not this time, but next time if you don't start using the measures of taking words and sanctions, I'll ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22977	Thank you, colleague Gojkovic. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. There's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22978	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. I'm advocating Article 108 to be in line at the session of the old chairman, in this... (Maya Gojkovic: That was it. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22979	The infringement of Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure has been ordered for a short time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22980	It's not 108. Just before 103.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22981	108. A little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22982	Well, a little while ago, half an hour ago. I'm pointing now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22983	You didn't notice that in continuity we have an indication of a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22984	Mr. Milicevic, I point to Article 27 and just one hypothetical question – if you hurt the same member twice in four minutes, are you saying that the MP has only one right to point out, and that the second time is not because, behold, it was announced 15 minutes or two minutes ago? You're wrong. You can injure a member of 108 at any minute and, of course, it is the right of all MPs to answer and indicate. First of all, I ask you to introduce order into this high house. Indeed, thank you, because indeed MPs of the Democratic Party who have 52 amendments and amendments to the law, concrete solutions for our citizens, cannot explain here normal and democratic solutions in accordance with our Rules of Procedure because representatives of the ruling majority do not behave as they do to this high House. And for you, one request, because of this House, not because of the party where you belong, if you are already in charge of the session, take it, and don't let the President of Parliament conduct you from the place what you did well and what you didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22985	My colleague Milojičić, when you just said that I had warned you that it had already been pointed to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 108, so the Rules of Procedure are clear on this point. Your right as an MP, legitimate right, that right cannot be taken from you by anyone, to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure if you consider the breach to have been committed. Again, it is my right as chairman to explain whether or not I think I hurt myself. I explained, considering I didn't hurt. I think you're mistaken, but in any case, the Parliament in voting day will plead. And, of course, I can't wait to hear the legal proposals and the solutions and I'm trying and I'm trying all the time to keep working. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to make a statement about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you, colleague Milic. National MP Marinika Tepic, I will repeat. On the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 October 2016. Does the MP Marinika Tepic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22986	Yes, I do, of course. I'll only ask you for ten seconds, to get an explanation, since my word was taken when I tried to explain my first bill, and I wasn't heard at all, it wasn't possible to hear me, to let me explain that first law in this set of mine. So, the proposal to amend and supplement the law on the financing of local self-government, which I intend to ask you to put into the agenda and to reopen the debate, aims to return to municipalities and cities, i.e. local self-government units across our country, to the start of those 4.6 billion dinars, which their central government last year, by amending the same law, took away and took away what is the safest part of the income in municipalities and cities, which is part of the personal income tax. Please, I know you're aware of the situation, I absolutely can't hear myself, I know that listeners can hear me and this can seem very funny in an explanation. So I can't hear myself, please silence your colleagues. So this is one way to make it stronger, no matter who's in power. The government is replaceable. The mayors and presidents of SNS municipalities and their clicks will be replaced, but this is an important law that strengthens the autonomy of municipalities and cities because it strengthens their finances. It's very clear, as it is in the family. When someone takes it from your wallet or reduces some of your money from your earnings, it's normal that you're more dependent on it, and it's done with these laws and municipalities and cities. What's further is the problem, it's that the SNS political commissioners started pushing the presidents of municipalities and mayors, not only to be in debt, but we know that, it's public data. So, in millions of dinars, municipalities and cities are in charge of regular funding, and they will leave the debt to some next, unfortunately, authorities, have already begun to force them to sign budget executions, so that in Panchev, so throughout South Banat, I always mention a certain Branko Malovic, for whom I have reliable information, is forcing mayors to sign the budget, which is against the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22987	Please don't mention...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22988	These municipalities will go bankrupt by the end of the year. So there are municipalities, please listen to me the thing is very serious, which are in a serious financial crisis, which will go bankrupt because budgets have already been spent in the first quarter of this year. I'm asking you to just consider, with all of our colleagues, and to open up this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22989	There's no reason to explain the bill amending the law on the financing of local self-government to mention people who don't have absolutely any touch points with the supplement that you've proposed. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 151 people's messenger for – 10 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 June 2017. Does MP Dusan Milisavljevic want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22990	Dear Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I submitted this bill and the following to health insurance provoked by an incident, an unheard incident that occurred in Nis at the Jura factory, where my fellow citizen lost her job in the breast cancer treatment process, when she operated on breast cancer and when she was in Cytostatic therapy, the employer interrupted her work relationship. Fragrated as a doctor and exclusively as a doctor, I have reacted and responded and now, with the aim of making this bill impossible for any employer in Serbia, whether he is in the private sector or in the state sector, that he has no right to fire a worker while in the process of healing from the malignant process. Who are these gentlemen who estimate that this woman can't continue working in that factory after breast cancer surgery? My fellow citizen, who I visited, was successfully operated, successfully conducted a cytostatic treatment and is now on the street, only because the employer estimated that she could not return. Who are these people who have hearts, who have no souls to forgive, cut off his working relationship and in the most difficult fight, put him on the streets in the fight for life? As a doctor, I'm telling you that when you fight cancer, any trauma of this kind further worsens your patient's health. It is an appeal to disable any employer, whether he is in the state or private sector, that he has no right to fire workers while in the process of diagnostics, treatment and rehabilitation from the malignant process. Serbia, unfortunately, is among the leading countries at a percentage of patients with malignant tumours. There are numerous risk factors, but precisely because our citizens are at the rate of malignancies and by the percentage of the mortality of malignant tumours among the leading countries in Europe, the role of the state and the obligation of the state to protect them in this field as well. My fellow citizen is fine, but unfortunately on the street. It is because of this case that I have submitted this bill no longer to let someone who is fighting for the life of an employer, because of his desire to gain profit, not to think about the human soul, about human life, leave him and let him on the street. I call on you to stop people from getting fired with this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22991	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 137 MPs for – 21 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 June 2017. Does MP Dusan Milisavljevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22992	Dear Chairman, this is part of this idea and initiative that workers suffering from malignant tumours are given support from a country that is also relying on the Serbian state's action plan to fight malignant tumours, that the employer no longer has the right to fire them. This proposal I have proposed for health insurance is that workers who suffer from malignant tumours have the right to 100% disease, not as for other patients, for other processes that are on sick leave to have 65%, it is proposed that workers who suffer from malignant tumours, patients who suffer from malignant tumours have the right to 100% compensation while they are on sick leave. You're witnessing that life is very expensive. I, as a doctor, must tell you that the process of treatment and the needs of these people, these patients, these workers in the rehabilitation process and the healing process requires and requires them to bring in high-vitamin, high-calorie food in order to carry out an operational, post-operative course successfully. That's why it's the idea to make a kind of positive discrimination and to allow these patients, these workers who are suffering from malignant tumours, to receive 100% monthly compensation. This is exactly the financial support of their country, i.e. The Health Insurance Fund and the employer allowed them to have the first state support, to see that they have the support of the state, but more importantly, that they have financial resources so that they can buy both some drugs and some vitamins, but what is more important, high-vitamin, high-calorie food to help them recover faster after these operational treatments. I repeat, unfortunately, Serbia has been exposed over the past 30 years to a number of sanctions, bombings, one poor quality of life. The way we eat, the great abuse of tobacco, the great presence of alcohol, all of these are risk factors that lead to malignancies. It is an appeal that through a kind of support to these patients, our citizens are allowed to fight more politely in this one life-long fight against malignant tumours, to have support through this vision, where the Health Insurance Fund, i.e. The state stood behind them and had the right to 100% monthly compensation, i.e. Immunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22993	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 24, no one, with abstentions, has voted 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the session agenda be complemented by a draft law amending the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 August 2017. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22994	This bill amending the Law on the National Bank of Serbia is a proposal that insists on responsibilities. In this previous debate, we also discussed the responsibility of the President of the Assembly, the responsibility of all MPs, and here we insist on the responsibilities and leaders of the NBS as one of the most important financial institutions. The proposal is simple. Our proposal is to delete Article 86b. I will read to you how he reads – Governor, Vice-Governors, Director of the Board of Supervisors and other NBS employees are not responsible for the damage caused by NBS operations unless it is proved that they have not acted in good faith. So I think it's the only solution that exists in this way defined, and here in the Assembly there was a vote on this law, on this kind of solution. We used to give an amendment to this article, wanting to delete, and insisting on simple things. Both governors and members of the council must, of course, bear responsibility, especially in such an important financial institution, as people carry responsibility in minor institutions, so the directors of companies with one, two, three or five employees carry them both with ten and with thousands of employees. Of course, this logic also requires the introduction of responsibility for those who can influence fiscal monetary flows in the Republic of Serbia in the most significant way. So it's a simple requirement to insist on responsibilities. I call on you to establish this fair relationship of responsibility throughout the Republic of Serbia by simply amending the Law on the National Bank of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22995	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, no one, with abstentions, voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the bill is funded by the AP Vojvodina, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 December 2016. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22996	Vice-President Milicevic, I am a People's MP, not a People's MP, or if it is, then allow me to speak to you from the Vice President.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22997	I'm sorry, but this is where the MP stands.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22998	So, 300 billion dinars since 2007, the Republic of Serbia owes AP Vojvodina on the grounds that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that the AP Vojvodina budget is 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. These are no money belonging to the government of the AP Vojvodina, no matter which party the government runs. These are the money that would go to the help that the people of Vojvodina get to start their own business. These are the money that would go to the building of apartments for young scientists. These are the money that would go to help farmers who through different programmes, which we are proud of, get various kinds of help from the grants, whether to buy mechanisms, whether to do irrigation, whether to bring some innovation into their jobs. It's the money that Vojvodina gives its citizens when they try, when they don't have enough resources to finance out-of-body insemination. That's the money Vojvodina gives to rebuild schools, kindergartens, homes of health. That's the money Vojvodina gives to the families. That's the money that Vojvodina specifically gives women to start their own jobs. It's the money Vojvodina gives to build houses for refugees, which it gives to young couples if they want to start a life in the country. It's money that invests in the most basic things like sewers, plumbing, lighting or asphalting. All this Vojvodina can't do because for 10 years there hasn't been a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, and it's not a whim that I'm talking about. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states that this is one of the laws that must be passed. There's no excuse that the law hasn't been passed for 10 years. Now you're gonna yell that it's our fault. Gentlemen, for five years you've been in power, for those five years, we enter into the sixth, there have been seven finance ministers, 17 working groups, 18 drafts of the law, the only thing we can't agree on is that the Constitution is respected, that the people of the Vojvodina get the money that belongs to them, and that it's not just good when they're paying, when they're full of the Republic budget, and when it's due back, then there's no money for them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u22999	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: No one, the abstentioned one, voted for—13, no one, nor did the 146 MPs vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. Mr. Alexander Jerkov's National MP, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2016. Does Mr. Alexander Jerkov's folk letter want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23000	Mr. Milicevic, you had no need to apologize to Ambassador Aleksandra Jerkov, because you are obliged to respect the institutions of this country and the final, final position of SANU as the largest and highest linguistic authority in our country. So, no MPs, no pilot, no fighter and no such differentiation when it comes to interest and gender-determining, and you should know very well. So I ask you to proceed with the Presidency in the way that it has established the Constitution of our country and how our functions speak and to give the word to Ambassador Aleksandra Jerkov to continue to discuss the subject he wishes to propose.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23001	Of course I know what you're talking about, but you can see I want to respect the opposition's position. My colleague Jerkov insisted, I agree with you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23002	I'm sorry. It's not about the opposition's attitude, it's about me being a woman and having the right to refer to myself as a female. If she can be a maid, if she can be a maid, if she can be a laundry, etc., then she can be a messenger, and someone might like it or not like it, and I need you to address me in the family that I belong to. I'm very uncomfortable when you talk to me like a man, really. So, I've proposed a law on amendments to the Law on textbooks... Nemanja Sarovic throws. ) I apologize, "coworker" Sarovic throws something, I don't know what it is. So it's one of the laws that Minister Sarcevic announced was amended. Since his duties, he has announced a large number of amendments to the law, some of them unfortunately have realised. I say regretfully because every bill he has given in this assembly has shown that Minister Sarcevic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia or do not understand what is needed by our education system, or do not want to understand, or do not know that they understand. In any case, I think that teachers, parents and children are absolutely no matter which of these reasons is in the middle, and what is clear is that every law in the field of education, which comes to this Assembly, offers solutions that are backward, which are retrograde, which now, in the case of the Law on Dual Education, puts us back further into the past than these previous ones. Among them is the Law on textbooks. Every parent in this country knows what our textbooks look like. He knows, first of all, that there are too many of them, he knows they're too heavy, he knows they're too expensive, he knows they're outdone, he knows that kids are terribly hard to understand, and he knows, unfortunately, sometimes the textbooks are very full of some incorrect information. Now the situation is further complicated because, under the new Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, it will personally be the minister who will approve the textbook plan and who will choose textbooks, so that instead of making progress in this area, we have an ever-increasing setback. I've proposed some amendments to the laws that I think should be introduced into the Bookbooks Act. I think we should talk about it before the minister comes with his, I guess, retrograde laws, because the only thing that's left is, and it's consistent with all the other suggestions he's made, the law says that he himself writes textbooks, and that would be consistent with his policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23003	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Nemanja Sarovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23004	Mr. Milicevic, as you have just heard, Mrs. Natasa Jovanovic made a very well-intentioned remark to you and Mrs. Jerkov and taught her, I would say, that she cannot be called a "national Member", because it is not a term that knows the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It's a function name. It's not about whether it's male or female. Mrs. Jerkov obviously didn't accept it. Instead of accepting, to learn something, to learn a lifetime, she told me that I was her “coworker. ” Of course, I cannot be her "coworker" and I think that while you are chairing the National Assembly, you must protect the institutions. So the fact that someone wants to be called a "people's Member", that's not enough. When he comes out of the congregation, he can call himself whatever he wants, and you, as chairman, are obliged to do so in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of this country. You know, tomorrow they're gonna ask you to say that she's a "cunt" of this bill that explains it, so someone else's gonna find it offensive. Therefore, SANU gave her position. If it wasn't clear enough for some so far, it's clear now and I ask you to stick to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23005	Thank you. You noticed that I respected the suggestion of my colleague Jovanovic and that I explained it. In the follow-up, I didn't notice that your colleague Jerkov spoke to you. Of course, dialogue and direct communication with MPs are not allowed. If I'd noticed, I'd have reacted for sure. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you, colleague Sarovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 14, against – 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 25 July 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23006	Thank you very much. This is an amendment to the Government Act, which begins with one, say colleagues, a set of health laws. The Government Act's proposal says to change the name above the member and Article 11. They change and they say: health skills, incompatibility and conflict of interest. Article 11. - before the government's election, any proposed member of the government must provide the National Assembly with medical assurance of the health capacity to establish a working relationship in state bodies. A member of the government cannot be in another public office and a state body, an AP authority, a town, the City of Belgrade, or perform an act that is incompatible by law with the duties of a member of the government, or create the possibility of a conflict of public and private interest. A member of the government is obliged to comply with all the regulations governing conflicts of interest before performing public office. What is the idea of this law? It's obvious he's necessary. It is also relevant for the election of a MP, i.e. for candidates for MPs, for candidates for the president of the state, which is to be carried out before the election, before the choice of these people is possible medical examination to prove that they are capable of performing their duties in the state administration. Such a medical examination is carried out by all the officials who work with us here today or anywhere in the state administration, from the level of secretary, guardians, to the level of deputies, advisers, chiefs, referents, and I don't know why the government members, or future members of the government, would be denied the opportunity to prove to the Serbian public in the most explicit way that they are capable of acting as ministers. If that were the case, and already once was the choice of the first democratic Serbian government after October 5th. The then Prime Minister also insisted that the candidates bring medical assurance that they were capable of serving in the public sector. It is, therefore, already in practice applied in Serbia and it would be very good to apply it again. Then we wouldn't have people in the government who say they're preparing our children for war, we wouldn't have people in the government who are seeing big savings, big surpluses, big pay hikes, it's just not normal, because they don't see it, because they don't hear it, because they have a problem with the conclusion, whether because they can't reach, because of the spine, say, a policy on which some law stands, so they can't be informed. In any case, they should not be placed on that important function if they are unable to perform it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23007	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for eight, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 151 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23008	I reported for the violation of article 107, Mr. Milicevic, because Zoran Zivkovic from session to session insults people who have certain physical shortcomings. Now he said someone who doesn't see or sees well can't be a minister. Here, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, my distinguished colleague and president of the National Assembly, doesn't see well, wears glasses, has a certain dioptria, but I do think she can be a minister. And, after all, she was a minister... (Radoslav Milojic: Great. ) Great, so, what's called "Heineken", "Heinekena" in fact, that... So she certainly was a good minister. Here is another question – I really want to know how Zoran Zivkovic passed the medical examination? How much did that medical examination cost? I am interested – which health care facility issued Zoran Zivkovic with confirmation that he is capable of being a minister after the 5th October changes. I'm really interested -- which health care facility, since we're here from session to session listening to ministers in Djindjic's government pass medical examinations? I'd like to see once that medical report, see which medical facility has issued that medical report and see how it's possible that Zoran Zivkovic is incompetent for the military, has a mark minus one, which means he's completely incompetent with the severe damage to biological functions as it is in the Nis Military Department's military report, and he's capable of being a minister? So, to explain to me how it's possible that someone can't serve the army, but can be a minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23009	Col. Martinovic, do you want the National Assembly in voting day to declare the orderly violation of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marinika Tepic. He's giving up. Thank you. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 December 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23010	So the motion to amend the labour law has two members. The first requires that Article 187 paragraph 1 changes and reads – during pregnancy, maternity leave, leave of work for child care, leave of work for child care and leave of work due to temporary prevention for longer than 30 days the employer cannot cancel the employment contract. This Article 2 is that the law enters into force eight days after its publication in the Official Messenger. If you're not careful and you don't understand as well as a former colleague who's completely misunderstood what I've been saying and doesn't deserve any further comment on it, I'll repeat. This law requires employers, to be focused, dear colleagues, not to be able to quit to someone, workers who is pregnant, on maternity leave, any worker who is on leave for the care of a child, on leave for the care of a child and on leave due to temporary prevention for more than 30 days. These are civilization norms. This has to be in the Labour Act, whether you're Chetniks, Partisans, left-wings, right-wings, I don't know what, any nation, any religion, anything, and that's not a joke, and it's not for playing someone who's a stranger in the conclusion. Of course I didn't mention any people with visual problems. You didn't understand. Look at the stenogram and you'll see. I said that only someone who's crazy or blind can see progress in the economic field, and who recognized himself directly, I congratulate him on that recognition...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23011	Comrade Zivkovic, go back to the reasons of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23012	... and I wish him great success, as all of you, the MPs of power, especially SNS MPs, congratulate New Year, for the first time in history, happy new 2018...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23013	Comrade Zivkovic, do you want to continue with... .
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23014	the way you've painted the city so it looks like a circus...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23015	Comrade Zivkovic, obviously you do not want to continue to explain the draft law amending the Labour Act. Zoran Zivkovic throws. It is hard to have such powers, colleague Zivkovic, to predict your goals and your desires. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, voted with 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23016	The Honorable Chairman, in fact I would not have the right to injure the Rules of Procedure, under Article 92, today only legislators can participate in the debate. So he's been breaking himself here all day for some kind of tolerance from the political Rules of Procedure. It is now a matter of Article 104, and you had to react, not MP Aleksandar Martinovic, when MP Zoran Zivkovic, trying to explain his bill, insulted not only me as an MP here who has a really expressed vision problem, but also all the people in this country, because he disqualified them for not being able to deal with politics and count on them to be ministers and to exercise executive power if they do not see well, if they are small growth, if they have a problem with the spine, if they can't walk. If anything today was a hate language, it must have been the explanation of Zoran Zivkovic and cannot be over it. Personally, I have a huge dioptria, but I am convinced that I can run the country much better than Zorana Zivkovic, who is so highly healthy and I am convinced that regardless of being disabled and not seeing well and that I am on the verge of falling into difficult categories of disability, and I am not ashamed to admit it to the Serbian public, that I can be much better and more honest with the police than he did in the Government of Zoran Zivkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23017	Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 1 November 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23018	Of course I do. The draft law supplementing the Act on the election of the President of the Republic states Article 1. – in the Law on the Selection of the President of the Republic, the Official Messenger has since and since then, in Article 11(3) of the post-point 2), added point 2a), which reads – medical assurance of the health capacity to establish a working relationship in the state bodies. Why? So we wouldn't have the situation we're in right now. I think it's clear to everyone in Serbia, and if there was such a law, we wouldn't have the president we now have, or the one before him, and that was a preventive measure for the future, because who knows who can run for president of the state if we don't introduce this protection. I think it's as clear as day. I'm calling a letter or an MP, a Member of Parliament who spoke before me to read the stenogram and to see that, of course, it has nothing to do with what she said about my earlier presentation. Of course, the Serbian public has long known, and unfortunately many from the Association of Disabilities of Different Areas what has been done and what I have personally done for them as a former official. It's not a subject, I don't need to defend myself against lies, a lie was never even dangerous.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23019	Let's get back to the subject, colleague Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23020	But I must give a few explanations to the Serbian public for what some MPs have said. I've never been to the government of Zoran Djindjic, under a), I've never been a police minister in the government of Zoran Zivkovic, just a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23021	Comrade Zivkovic, you will get a minute and eight seconds, but please, you cannot speak to the MPs directly and answer questions as you say. You can't have a replica of a specified breach of the Rules of Procedure. The basis of your notification is to explain the draft law supplementing the Act on the election of the President of the Republic. Here, you have another minute and eight seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23022	As in reporting for the injury of the Rules of Procedure, it cannot be used for the replica, for the false, some would say false information about an MP I did not want to replicate here, because they do not deserve any answer, let alone a replica, but I wanted to inform the citizens of Serbia that they know what it is and thank you for the opportunity you gave me. So it's necessary to change the law on the election of the President of the Republic, so that we don't have what we have right now at the head of the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23023	A colleague of Zivkovic, a colleague of Martinovic, did not speak to you for a moment, asked questions to me. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23024	Please, Mr. Milicevic, respond to what Zoran Zivkovic said. He told the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic that. So, Aleksandar Vukic is a man of blood and flesh who beat all of you alone, and Zivkovic and Jankovic and Jeremic and Djilas and Tadic and Bosko Obradovic, all in turn, and that Vukic received almost 56% of the votes. So he's got so many votes that you won't get for ten of your political lives. I understand that you suffer great political traumas, that you're nervous...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23025	Comrade Martinovic, speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23026	That you are angry, but, Mr. Milicevic, I ask you to protect the dignity of the National Assembly, among other things, and because the President of the Republic has sworn an oath here before all the MPs, he has honored every MP of the people, he has not given anyone a hard, bad word. So, Aleksandar Vucic was a candidate for the SNS who confidently beat all of you together and we are in the SNS extremely proud, and Mr. Milicevic, I ask you to courteous Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23027	Please, you don't have to go directly. I'll allow you to breach the Rules of Procedure, of course, but you don't need direct communication. You have ten more seconds for your colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23028	Marianne, please don't react as president of the parliamentary group. It's a man who's still suffering fears, because he can't explain to himself whether he's the one who tied Luleta to the Nish or Lula to him, well, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23029	I thank my colleague Martinovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23030	Mr. Milicevic, we just commend you on how calmly you conduct the sessions, and then you spoil the impression, so let the Rules of Procedure be broken again. You made it possible for Mr Martinovic, as head of the ruling parliamentary group, to speak for two minutes and 20 seconds. You interrupt all MPs of the opposition in a second and that is another indicator of how you distinguish between MPs who are equal under the Constitution, by law. If we accept the principles of parliamentary democracy, then this cannot happen. That wasn't your feature until now, I hope it won't be in the future. The second incomparably more important thing, Article 103 regulates what is required by an MP who reports that he is talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Did you, Mr. Milicevic, hurt the Rules of Procedure by allegedly winning the election alone? Did you talk about it? I didn't hear that. I don't think that's how you hurt the Rules of Procedure. And this is in that people, two of them, and I and my grandmother are alone. The wolf defeated all of them, he and the 27 parties that were in the coalition. When he's so big, so handsome and smart, why didn't he go out alone? Secondly, if, as Mr Martinovic said, Aleksandar Vukic, a representative of all citizens, if he respected all citizens and all MPs in the National Assembly, how is it that for the upcoming local elections he borrows his name only one election list? Is that list "Serbia"? You know, you did it in Kosovo and Metohija. It says - the state project Serbian List. Will you also have a state-run project in Belgrade, the Serbian Progressive Party – Aleksandar Vukic?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23031	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. We've exchanged our views on this subject for a little while, and you know very well that it's really hard to predict, so I'm going to repeat by who knows which time today, what will the MPs be talking about. It is up to me to suggest and try to direct the MP back to what is the topic of the current assembly. Did Col. Martinovic speak a few seconds longer? Yes, it is, because I interrupted it at one time interval, trying, if you noticed, to suggest my colleague Marijana Risticevic not to lead direct communication with other MPs. That was the only reason. I, as chairman, have disabled those 10 to 15 seconds, and that is why I have allowed it. You know very well that I don't have double arches and I don't have double standards when it comes to sitting down. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23032	Dear President, I will not be angry with you if you use Serbian and address me as "national MP", as I respect the views of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. When our language recognizes concepts such as craniss, soldier, psychologist, and I don't know what's being used today, then I'll have the right to be angry with you. This time you have injured the Rules of Procedure in Rule 92, which speaks of who has the right to participate in the debate. You are not guilty, but yet you are tolerated and you are constantly giving a word to the false violations of the Rules of Procedure to MP Nemanja Sarovic, whom she hated to write, at least for the sake of a bill, so she is using today's violation of the Rules of Procedure to insult, not only the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic, who will endure everything, for five years suffers the lowest and worst insults at his expense, and whether it is difficult for him or not to be the subject of this session, but MP Nemanja Sarovic has, this time, threatened the dignity of Serbian citizens, 56% who voted for President Aleksandr Vukic and who supported him, but also 100% of Serbian citizens who respect the role of the President of the Republic. I ask that it be stopped in this parliament once with the humiliation of the Republic of Serbia, with the humiliation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the state. And it can't be allowed to anyone, no matter what one day they wear a shirt that says, I'm a member of a party that's in opposition, so he thinks he can insult whatever comes to his mind. There is nothing to protect Sarovic because he belongs to the opposition... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23033	Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23034	If it were Nemanja Sarovic, I would ask. But since it's about you, not this time, but I'm asking you to respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23035	Thank you. For a little while you said yourself that we started the session in one spirit of tolerance and practice of reporting in the Rules of Procedure, of course, respecting that direction and in this context and MPs of opposition and positions, we started even before noon. We continue it only and I still believe that the goal and positions and opposition, again, with respect, will be given every MP a word, of course, Milojic, and you as an opposition MP will be given the right to speak, but I hope that we will continue in the spirit of tolerance and that we will finish the work that we started today at 10.00 p.m., and it is about adopting the agenda. Here you go, colleague Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23036	Yes, a violation of article 27, Mr. Milicevic. It was not Alexander Vukic, as Nemanja Sarovic said, who supported 27 parties, but Aleksandar Vukic came out on the line and Vojislav Seselj and Saša Radulovic and Vuk Jeremic and Sasa Jankovic and everyone else and got 56% of the votes. All you fake partisans, fake brushes, fake Europeans, etc., you couldn't do anything to that man.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23037	Talk to me, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23038	And the citizens of Serbia know that your only program in the campaign was hate against Alexander Vukic and you didn't even have any other policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23039	Just talk to me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23040	Absolutely all presidential candidates and all parties behind any of these presidential candidates had only one man as the target – Alexander Vukic and members of his family. So it wasn't the two of them -- me and Grandma alone, but one man against the complete, though quite weak and insignificant Serbian opposition. And what I must say -- the Serbian Progressive Party is proud of General Lazarevic, but we are also proud of Colonel Veselin Sljivancanin.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23041	My colleague Martinovic, please return to your ordered violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23042	This is what I must say, Mr. Milicevic, because one of the alleged biggest war crimes fighters in the Hague has said that Veselin Sljivancanin is responsible for the war crimes in Vukovar and that he should have been convicted. Not guilty, Veselin Sljivancanin is for us a Serbian hero who freed Serbian Vukovar when Serb children were killed in Vukovar by Ustasha.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23043	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) The word has the People's MP Nemanja Sarovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23044	Mr. Milicevic, you did hurt Article 27, but by letting Mr. Martinovic say what he was saying. Don't you think I'm offended by that, because how is Mr. Martinovic going to insult me? Imagine how valuable it is when Alexander Martinovic tells someone he's a fake brush. Here, Aleksandar Martinovic is a real protégé. I also commended him at the meeting of the Administrative Committee, noting that he is, in my opinion, both the most beautiful and the smartest in the entire parliamentary group, that he is their best representative...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23045	Comrade Sarovic, there's no reason...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23046	... that he is a symbol of democracy, a beacon of consistency, beware, indeed such a man is rarely lucky. And when he tells me I'm a fake brush, believe me, I'm proud, because imagine that Aleksandar Martinovic estimates I'm good, so the privilege is to get a negative grade from him. So, sir...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23047	What did I do to hurt the Rules of Procedure, just tell me that, please? There is no reason to speak to Mr. Martinovic, please speak to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23048	By allowing the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Aleksandar Martinovic, who built his entire political career by explaining who they are and what they are, parts of the MPs on the right and false Chetniks. So imagine Alexander Martinovic assigned me the title of a fake Chetnik. I may be, but here I am, he's the one. Another very important thing, so Alexander Vukitch is what he says I won. He's like the Prime Minister, as a minister in every ministry, as a man who is the province's Prime Minister, the mayor of every city, who has everything at his disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23049	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23050	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Please, I have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I would like you to tell me about the first violation of the Rules of Procedure, which member I should appeal to, and on the basis of which, on our proposals today, you give Mr. Martinovic the floor of the Rules of Procedure that he can replicate and insult the representatives of the opposition? Of course no one, especially the DS, is afraid of Martinovic, but I would appreciate it if you could tell me on the basis of which member you've been giving all day...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23051	And which member did you point to?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23052	I'm asking you to tell me on the basis of which member, to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, on the basis of which member all day you give Mr Martinovic and Maja Gojkovic the word? I'm ordering a breach of article 88, and I demand that the quorum be determined, because the quorum is gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23053	My friend Milojičić, you cannot ask me to determine which member you can contact. You have to call on a member of the Rules of Procedure first, you're a long MP, and I think you've had to learn that by now. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting days about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Here is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23054	Mr. Milicevic, here, I'll answer. Article 106 has been injured. That's why I get the word and why SNS MPs get the word, I'm going to tell all these SNS haters now, because we're not going to let you use this day to hit us like a bag. Because We have nothing to be ashamed of, nor have We robbed anything, nor have We taken anything from anyone. We raise Serbia from the ashes, we raise it from the mud you left behind, we're proud of Alexander Vukic, we're proud of his victory of 56% of the votes won, we're proud of the fact that for the first eight months of this year we've had 1.6 billion direct foreign investments, we're proud of 100km of new highways, tens of thousands of new jobs, that in three years we've opened over 60 factories in all of Serbia, that we haven't fired anyone unlike them who in four years their authorities fired 400,000 people. Now I'm telling you, Mr. Milicevic, we will no longer allow those who won one, two or four percent of the vote to hit the SNS like a bag. The people showed us trust to run the country, to make laws, and we'll do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23055	Mr. Martinovic, I completely agree with you. The National Assembly, as the highest body of the legislative authority, has the role to play. Before I give you my word, colleague Gojkovic, we must comply with Article 88, first to determine the quorum. I find that 129 MPs are present in the O.R. We're going back to work. (Alexander Martinovic: Don't give them a word, they're not in the O.R. You can't give a word to someone who's not here. You're right about your colleague Martinovic, but they didn't answer, a colleague named Gojkovic answered, and she's present, I must allow her to speak. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23056	I will call on article 88, which was auctioned by Ambassador Milojic just a moment ago, just to cover what he was saying and enters the replica and then bid any member. I ask the MPs to watch what the 88th article is about, and so DS MPs refer to Parliament and today's work. Article 88, it's a chapter on opening a session and participating in a session, and we've heard everything in his explanation of the violation of Rule 88, except for what he writes. So, Mr. Chairman, you are allowing the session today to be maximum tolerance but yet insubordination of the Rules of Procedure, that every MP of the opposition should appear here today, bid any member of the Rules of Procedure and insults Alexander Martinovic. If the MPs haven't realized yet that the MPs here, all 250, are equal and everyone here has the right to answer the word, then they've missed their profession. They could have read the Rules of Procedure in at least a year's time, how much this assembly of parliament is in place, and known that we are fully equal here. Aleksandra Martinovic has the right to speak, has the right to call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, has the right to seek a replica, and it is up to you whether you allow it or not. Please respect the Rules of Procedure. Let us begin and continue, in fact, by laying down the agenda and using a provision of Rules of Procedure that says that, in this part of the session, only legislators can participate, and the quorum can only be sought by the president of the parliamentary group and no one else, and it says in the Rules of Procedure. As far as I know, Radoslav Milojic has not yet replaced his parliamentary group or deputy president. So this time you really hurt the Rules of Procedure because you're letting anyone do what they want at this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23057	Thank you, colleague Gojkovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? So, yes, you're absolutely right, 250 MPs are completely equal, completely equal and have the right to report for the word, and it is up to the chairman to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. With that tolerance, we started this afternoon, continued to respect the right of opposition and not to apply the other part that is unpopular, because then we would go back to having double standards and having double arches, which is sanctioning. Thank you. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, which was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, with abstention – there is no, there is no vote 140. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23058	Thank you very much. This is a motion for a resolution that was proposed for the first time two years ago and I will remain persistent in that. I think it makes perfect sense that a resolution supported in the same text by over 20 countries, including the Russian Federation, Greece, Belgium, France, Canada, Cyprus, Italy, Switzerland, Argentina, Uruguay, Sweden, Lebanon, also condemns the Serbian parliament, i.e. the parliament of the Serbian state. I think we have a lot more reasons, motives and civilizations, but also personal and national, to support one of these acts. I've repeated it several times, but since I realize that here the understanding of what I'm saying is a bit more difficult, I'm going to repeat that it has nothing to do with Turkey's current policy, nor does it have anything to do with the conflict between Azerbaijan and Armenia. It is a matter of genocide that has been established, which was committed in the Ottoman Empire from 1915 to 1922 to the Armenians. Why does it matter to us? Because there is a well-founded opinion that, if it has not received a legal basis, it certainly has a basis in the sense of the good work of Serbian citizens that it has been committed several times over Serbian people and others throughout history. It used to be the ones who were the occupiers, used to be the first neighbors, and sometimes they tried to do it, and some who faked themselves as patriots. It has to be recorded, so it doesn't happen to us again. Because tomorrow, we may have the current power to order Serbian and Serb citizens, say in Kosovo, to vote for a war criminal against whom this state has an Interpol warrant, or to have Serbian judges take an oath before a war criminal, who is currently president of a Kosovo. They are not Serbian judges, they are then judges of the unrecognized so-called state of Kosovo, or the state of Kosovo, as it suits. But both must not happen to us, and in order to remember, we must remember other people's sufferings and genocides over other nations, and one of them is Armenians.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23059	Thank you, colleague Zivkovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for eight, against those who are abstentioned, there is no one who has voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Members of Parliament Zoran Zivkovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - the draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 January 2017. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23060	So, January 12, 2017. I have two draft laws concerning amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs. Unfortunately, I don't see here which is which, but never mind, this other one will get on the agenda. So, one is about what we call health laws, which is to supplement the Law on the selection of MPs, Article 1 and that it reads - in the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the Official Messenger, etc. In Article 44(2), point (a) is added to point (b) of Article 44(2), which is – medical assurance of the health capacity to establish a working relationship in state bodies. This law, when adopted and adopted at the time, I guarantee it, will take effect on the eighth day after the publication in "The Official Messenger", just as it says in the Serbian Constitution. What brings us such a change of law? It brings us, as in the case of candidates for the president of the state and candidates for a member of the government, that even candidates for the MP before their candidacy is verified, not the choice, means the candidacy itself, must pass the medical examination necessary for public sector employment. This review is not particularly significant. Some have been through such an examination. All these people who serve us, who work for us and with us in this building, have been through such an examination. It is also predicted for some other documents. I don't think there's any reason for anyone to object to this bill at all, unless they're afraid to apply that law and they're not afraid to pass a medical examination. So, I invite you all to take this vote, see who votes yes, he's not afraid of a doctor's examination, and whoever votes against, he's afraid. I must warn, before you vote, that this medical examination also implies a test of the presence of drugs in the organism, not only in the present, but also in what was five, 10 or 20 years ago, that these analyses may lead to very interesting conclusions about the past and the general state of health of the MP. So, I don't want to call anyone, I don't want anyone to recognize themselves again or think that it has any personal connection to what I'm saying, but I think the citizens of Serbia deserve to vote for the people they are, if they're not sure they don't want to change parties, at least make sure they're healthy enough to sit in these benches. Thank you very much. I call on you to vote together for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23061	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—seven, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 138 out of 145 MPs. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23062	That's right, a year ago, this amendment to the law was re-proposed, and in the last term it was the same proposal. The congregation’s majority did not decide to put it on the agenda until then, regardless of the promises I received. There's also a promise from the Serbian government a year ago, which Alexander Vukic, at the time, said these changes were justified, made sense and would be incorporated into a new proposal for a law on higher education, so that didn't happen. Fifteen or twenty days ago, there was a minister of education sitting here, and he said that this formulation would be installed in the next changes. But it didn't happen either, and I will, for the sake of the Serbian public, because I'm sure most of you already know this proposal by heart, to repeat what the proposal is. The proposal is that, in the Law on Higher Education, the Official Messenger, in Article 4 after point 1), adds point 1a (a), which is academic congratulation, to add the name of the member and member 5a, which is known to be – academic congratulation, to add Article 5a, which says – academic congratulation is based on the independent creation of written works, as well as on the strict respect for other people's copyrights. There, of course, was no point in putting it that it was impossible to take and graduate on Sunday, that it was impossible for the best students of self-proclaimed universities to say they were the best, and they studied for eight or nine years. I don't know about college where regular schooling takes eight or nine years. It also means that you can't run from college to college, so where they don't recognize your doctorate to run across the woods and go to someone else and pass there. That means what's called honor and honesty. At the risk that what I'm saying isn't recognizable to all my colleagues, I still hope we can make an effort and get to know what academic honesty is. The honesty of life, to put it this way, should already beautify us in our young age, that it also helps people who have had an accident, who may have been punished by God, who may have had some kind of, how do I know what kind of pain of life, but that's why society is, therefore, competent institutions that can be both preventive and curative can help those people get back to being honest. Of course it is necessary for people who need to educate future generations who, hopefully, will no longer run from you from the state, but will remain here, they must be people who have clear knowledge of what academic honesty and honesty means at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23063	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote. (Zoran Zivkovic: The vote goes 15 seconds, according to the Rules of Procedure. It's been released for 10 seconds. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 140 out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23064	Thank you. It's a bill that I've been trying to prevent, for a very long time, unintentional spending, waste of people's money, budget money for what's called – pre-election propaganda programs, i.e. they're unsightly, above all TV ads by national and these less national televisions, where the goal is for candidates for various functions in this society, politically, of course, to show smarter, nicer, more able, faster and how they were, I don't know, thirdly, than they really are. Huge money, estimated to be somewhere between 70 and 90 million euros a year is thrown for it, for a photoshop, a change of character, for a script, with Mrs. Hope, with no idea what all the pointless things, that should seduce people and think it's a serious thing, not just a bad copy of a reality program or some TV series, from us a distant but friendly country. Therefore, in order to prevent a waste of money and to focus that money on much more needed needs, I have already talked about some colleagues before me, if that is true 70-80 million, you can cure all children who need medical help, surgery or any treatment they cannot be given in Serbia, but have to travel abroad. So we wouldn't have text messages for the treatment of children who are due tomorrow to inherit the debts this government has made, but we would have one normal fund that would go to those unfortunate children, their parents and some other people, if necessary, to be cured and able to pass a medical examination so that they could be candidates for both the MPs and the minister and the president of the state. I don't see anything strange about this. So all we have to do is give up all of the state's money to spend through some different transmissions and washing on something that's pointless to throw away money, not something that helps people stay healthy. Of course, Serbian citizens must be informed of what list holders, political parties, organisations, movements offer but should be done by organising on all national televisions or in the province, if they are the province's elections, or local if they are local, dual emissions, where political insinuators will offer their programmes to Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23065	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 135 out of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of political activities, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23066	This law is related to a law that I have just defended and tried to convince you that it is better to do that for the treatment of children or for some scientific research or for social contributions in another area than to throw themselves away for stupid TV ads, but in order for it to be successful, it is not only necessary to change the Law on the selection of MPs, but also the Law on the financing of political parties, where it would say that it is forbidden to spend money in a campaign to fund promotional videos on electronic media. There's a lot of other media that can, if someone thinks they're very nice, smart, in some spot, they can do it through Facebook, via Twitter, over some third, fourth social networks, they can go from house to house, if they can without security and ask the neighbors what they think of it, they can leave when the campaign in Panchevo is to greet the workers of the chip factory, which is there, is actually not made, but it's promised to be made. Or maybe he can sit on this Chinese train that goes to Budapest, but it's not done either, it's just promised, or maybe someone goes to drink wine, like he throws a colleague there, it's that train that's charming to go to the Kosovo Field, so he came here somewhere to Batajnica, all the hero to the hero was there. So let's not play the circus, but let's do something that is the work of the MPs, which is to help this troubled people, the citizens of Serbia, all the faiths and nations, to live by making them live in Europe for a moment in the 21st century, and we can do that by starting to act like serious people. There's always someone who can come up with a lie. It's a history of lies. It's an encyclopedia of lies. You can talk about whatever you want, whoever's been talking to, who's been taking down the awake, who hears well, who doesn't hear well, who's serving the army, who's smoking, and who's peeing, all of it can be told as much as you want, but let's do something serious. We are not chosen here to see who can make a bigger fool of himself, but we are chosen to help our citizens. So I urge you to vote in favour of this bill, to say that we direct you to treat children who are being treated with text messages today.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23067	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 136 out of the 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Planning and Planning of Space and Villages, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 August 2016. Does MP Zoran Zivkovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23068	Thank you. So it's the same old bill that was proposed in the previous assembly. It is practically an abdicated version of the law that was passed in 2003, which was one of the serious laws that had all its contents and also the sublaws, which were necessary in order to get in the way of illegal construction in this country. The law was passed, I repeat, in 2003, but its application was immediately, after the deadline for the start of application, which was in 2004, obstructed by many sides, and it left no serious trail, but serious positive consequences for the situation in our country. So today, where you turn around you can see as much as you want illegal construction, you can look at it in something called "Belgrade on the Water", you can look at something called the Prokop station, because it looks like no one is allowed on the train, I see it's open, I see it's the main Belgrade station, at least that's what they wrote when they were painting, but there's only some local trains going, some driving from the Pančeva Bridge to that station and to Batajnica. You have such examples today in Belgrade, there are over 150 facilities for which the city services are responsible, where your colleagues from your parties in power have made judicial solutions to the construction ban and the destruction of the built, but this is still as if nothing had happened. A fellow with a third-row beard, left of me, witnessed a building like that in Nebojsa's 8th. Let's just say, in front of the authorities, it happens. I warned him a few times, and they said to me, "Be careful what you do, he's protected by someone up there." I know it's worse, I know it's the worst, but it won't stop me from going on not because of that case but also because of many others to bring order into that area in Serbia. Irregular construction, healthy candidates for MPs, ministers and presidents, not to throw money at advertising, but to treat children from these couples, are all things that Serbia can do to a better country, a country that, not because of the EU, but because of ourselves, can achieve European standards as soon as possible and achieve that goal that many swear is lifeless, and I fear they are not aware of what they are doing. Therefore, I invite you to vote with honor for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23069	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote - five, against - one, with abstentions. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the work of the Shareholder Insurance Company "Such Insurance" Kragujevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23070	Thank you very much. This decision proposes to educate the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the permit for the work of the Action Society for Insurance "Such Insurance" Kragujevac. This happened some year and a half ago, according to economic experts, according to the claim of 408 employees who are currently out of work because the insurance has been closed, that there have been a lot of dirty operations by the National Bank of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance and some others involved. That can't remain a secret. It must have its epilogue in front of the Serbian public, and I hope that this parliament has enough power, credibility, honor, honesty, or at least desire to solve some of these major traumas that have occurred in this country over the past few decades. This is about proposing that the polling committee be made up of one MP from each parliamentary group, that the first session of the Committee, of course, calls on the National Assembly president, or the president, however, that the committee's committee should choose from its first session of its members and vice-presidents of the Committee, that it is the committee's task to consider and determine the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the work permit. The responsibility of the National Bank of Serbia for withdrawing work permits due to lack of technical reserves at the time they were above the average necessary, responsibility for the destroyed reputation of the owner of "Such Insurance", responsibility for 408 employees who lost their jobs. To determine whether there was consent of the National Bank of Serbia Legal Service to withdraw the license for the work of this AD insurance company, and whether the AD winding-up insurance process "Tavo" Kragujevac found that there was no need to withdraw the work permit. And that's what happened. The Committee of Auditors shall have the right to request from the national authorities and organisations data, corrections and documents and notifications. The poll committee is required to complete the task within 120 days, and I think it is a good opportunity to slowly restore honor to this temple of democracy, this temple of parliamentaryism and politics of Serbia, which is called the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23071	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The National MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, proposed that the agenda be supplemented by the points – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. Does the People's Parliament want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23072	Thank you, President. At least it's a shame that I'm proposing this, I mean, third or fourth year in a row. It is also not the biggest problem that Serbia has been reminded by the Council of Europe for four years of the obligation that we have under the verdict that Serbia is obliged to adopt a law on missing babies. A much bigger problem than I suggest, a much bigger problem is that we are ashamed and we allow the Council of Europe to warn us, to adopt this law, is that the parents who have been the worst thing in life, that their only-born children have been stolen, they can't get to the truth, they can't get to justice, they can't figure out what happened to their children, and you're directly preventing them. So I'm asking you next time I meet them, and I know that all MP groups write to them, because it's absolutely no matter which party, which most of them and the government will adopt this proposal, I'm asking you, I'm calling you to go with them and see them, so they tell you what humiliations they're going through, that they tell you that these women in the maternity ward when they're given up, that they're pushing to sign dozens of documents and between them and the documents that they're refusing to accept their child's body, so they can tell you a little bit what it's like when after six years they get a warning that the child isn't enrolled in school, so they have to go and report that their child died, so that when they come to some alternative investigations where their child might be, they don't have a way to establish it, so they have to tell you for five or ten years to realize that you're not dead, so that you can't be dead, so you can't do anything. They would probably tell you that the most terrible thing about the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in the bill that has delivered to this assembly, which has been sitting in the process since November, and thank God, you don't put it on the agenda, and they are offered to give up their child in exchange for 15,000 euros. You know what, when you give up your children for 10,000 or 15,000 euros, then ask for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23073	I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The National Parliament of Aleksandra Jerkov proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agricultural Land. Do you want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23074	Thank you, President. The agricultural land law adopted a year ago in this assembly, and whose amendments I propose, implies one very unusual procedure under any municipality in Serbia can assign a third of the best agricultural land to the investor by choice of the president of the municipality and the minister of agriculture, without tendering, without public competition, without any conditions, evidence and without seeing what the real price of that land could be. If he offers the most, let him get it, etc. What's the problem with that and what exactly am I proposing to change? The problem is that between 15,000 and 17,000 families, it lives on the lease of state agricultural land. A few thousand of them live exclusively from it, and now that you've provided for by law such a solution, you've actually made it impossible for these people to process the land from which they live, and at best you've forced them to be superiors and to work for some kind of reward on the ground that you gave to your business partners, I say again, without any procedure. What we're proposing is that at least some rules are made by which your business partners can get you land. To make a public call, to make a bid, to see who offers, who has a plan for it, to see what land it is, and not to give them the best agricultural land in every municipality without criteria. We're actually trying to get some order into this area, which you obviously don't want. We know that the agricultural land law has been passed solely because of it, and many have already called it "the tenis law", and later we heard from Minister Nedimovic that it is "teniz", so it is "teniz law", to say the same. But let me tell you something, gentlemen. What you give to your business partners is not yours, you have no right to give agricultural land, which generations of farmers have worked and thousands of families live on, to their business partners. Let's adopt these changes, so if your business partners are the best, if they offer the most, then they'll pass, don't worry about them. The problem is you're not offering anything, and they're getting somebody else's, everyone else's.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23075	Thank you. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for the vote - 12 MPs, against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Please, let's determine the quorum. I agree that the session is attended by 134 MPs, and we are going to vote. National MP Vladimir Orlic proposed to conduct a joint principled Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Dual Education; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education and Education; Proposal for a Law on Secondary Education and Education; Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on Loans (Project on Inclusion of Preschool Education and Education) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Nuclear Safety; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Common Convention on the Security of Fuel Safety and Security of Radioactive Waste. Joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, which was submitted on 19 October of this year; Proposal for a Decision amending the Committee of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to determine the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association on 18 October of this year; Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia which has been tabled by the parliamentary groups of the SPS and the Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do you want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 134, against – three, abstention – no one voted three MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of these proposals, we are going to work on a set agenda. (Wait just a moment to determine the agenda in general. ) I put the agenda proposal in general to vote. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 129, against – nine, abstention – no one. I find that the National Assembly established the Agenda of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for 2017 in general. We are going to work on the established agenda. Since we have come to the conclusion of these proposals, we are going to work on a set agenda. Wait a minute, let's determine the agenda in general. I'm putting on a vote on the draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, v – nine, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017 as a whole. We're going to work on a set agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development Mladen Sarčević; Prof. Vladimir Džamić and Anamarija Vicek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education; Nenad Mijailović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance; Minister of Finance, Dr Dusan Vujović; Deputy Minister of Education and Technological Development; Director of the Agency for the Protection of Ionian Emissions and Nuclear Security of Serbia, Mr. Sladjan Velinov; Branko Drcelic, Executive Director of Public Debt Administration at the Ministry of Finance; Ivana Avramović and Branko Bajic, Deputy Director of the Agency for Ionian Aviation Protection and Nuclear Security of Serbia; Aleksandar Markovic, Head of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Education and Technological Development. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle and uniform review on the draft law on dual education; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law on pre-school education and education; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education and Education; Proposal for a Law on Pre-school Education and Education; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Loans and Supplements between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Nuclear Safety; and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Joint Convention on the Security of Fuel Safety and Security of Radioactive Waste Management. Does the proposing representative, Mladen Sarcevic, minister of education and science and technological development, want to give us the opening statement? (Yes) The word is Mladen Sarčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23076	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. Now I'm going to give my colleague Arpad Fremond's word, and when he's done, we're going to finish today and we're going to continue our work tomorrow at 1:00. Here you go, colleague Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23077	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians – the Party for Democratic Action considers that the adoption of a set of educational laws, and this proposal for a law on dual education and amendments and amendments to the laws in the field of pre-school education and primary and secondary education and education, is an important step in bringing the Europe 2020 Strategy in line with smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. The challenge that stands before all of us is how to educate competent students with smart policy, to make them available knowledge, skills, attitudes and values, and these are key elements of the development of a society and, ultimately, how to retain talented, professional and creative people, who will create society, knowledge, innovation and new technologies. The adoption of this set of educational laws is an important step in educational forms, but I must point out that in addition to a number of reasons for the adoption of these laws, harmonising with the roof law on the foundations of education and education systems, improving the quality of efficiency and efficiency of all levels of education and education, ensuring the improvement of quality, availability and fairness of all levels of education and education, as a key reason we see learning based on the development of key competences. The development of competences involves the development of a positive relationship between students with obligations, the development of advice and responsibility for commitments undertaken, and the development of a positive relationship with teamwork and entrepreneurship. In order to improve the quality of education in the languages of national minorities, MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians have proposed amendments to the amendments to the amendments to the law on changes and additions to the Law on Pre-school Education and Education, basic and secondary education and education, as well as to the proposal for a law on dual education, aimed at improving educational work for members of national minorities, in the language and letter of the national minority, more precise regulation of the use of the language of the national minority in the achievement of educational and educational work. We also responded to the amendments in terms of adding data concerning the determination of child status, student status and adult status. We believe that the data on nationality, data on the language in which basic, secondary and higher education was acquired, on the previously completed education and education programme, or on the level of education in the mother tongue, are important for the records kept by public documents issued by pre-school institutions, i.e. primary and secondary schools. Thirdly, we believe that if the plan and the programme of teaching are achieved in the language of the national minority in the dual education programme, it is important to specify the obligation of the employer to organise and implement learning through the work of the language of the national minority, and that the instructor knows the language of the national minority, which carries out the plan and programme of teaching and learning. The Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians and the Party for Democratic Action is the position that it is important to harmonise this set of educational laws not only with the roof law on the foundation of education and education systems, but also with the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, which provides for members of national minorities to have the right to education and education in their language in the institutions of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education. Fourthly, it is important for the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians and the Party for Democratic Action that the solutions proposed by this law are in accordance with the powers of national minority councils, as well as with the provisions of the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina, particularly in the work relating to entrusted matters of the AP Vojvodina. Therefore, the proposals for a set of educational laws respect the legal provisions on entrusted transactions, giving consent to the implementation of teaching and the implementation of a school programme in the languages of national minorities for less than 15 students, in the light of the relevant national council of the national minority, the recognition of foreign school documents, the procedure for the recognition of foreign school documents, the keeping of records and documentation on the recognition of foreign school documents, the granting of consent to the number of students in order to obtain specialist or master's education, professional qualifications, requalification, qualifications, qualifications and specialisation. Educational reforms and proposals for laws that are before us can only be understood as part of a broader process of harmonisation with European values and standards. It is important for the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians and the Party for Democratic Action that the draft laws agree with the thematic comments of the Advisory Committee of the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities from the thematic comment on education, to the thematic comment concerning the right of members of national minorities, not only identification. In the spirit of thematic comments of the Advisory Committee of the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, we have proposed amendments that involve a contextual broader understanding of education. In terms of education, we mean not only the mandatory primary school system, but preschool and higher education, research, vocational education, adult education, vocational education and educational activities outside of the regular school course. The Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians and the Party for Democratic Action sees an increase in child coverage and the availability of all levels of education as an important reason for the adoption of these laws. In the broader context, increasing child coverage and ensuring availability of a social partnership aimed at linking education and labour markets through the legislative and institutional framework of the National Qualifications Framework system are assumptions of reduced poverty rates. As a significant step in supporting reforms of the education system in Serbia as the first EU agreement of this kind with one of the Western Balkan countries in late September 2017, the Republic of Serbia signed a contract with the European Commission to implement a project of educational reform, which the EU allocated 27.4m euros of grants for the period 2017 to 2019. The project plans that around 40,000 teachers in Serbia will be trained according to new modern programmes, which will provide students with high quality lectures and that at the same time four thousand teachers, who teach in the languages of national minorities, will receive special training, and special textbooks in minority languages will be printed. When we talk about additional training for teachers, I remind myself of the activities of the Minor Action Plan, that the development of the professional training programme of teachers and associates, which performs teaching in the language of national minorities and in the report on the implementation of the minority action plan for activities, which reach the conclusion of the second quarter of 2017, it is said that the Education, Science and Technological Development Task Force, established in June 2017, will develop a new rule on professional training of teachers, educators and professional associates. As part of these activities and the Faculty of Philosophy of the University of Novi Sad as part of the Centre for Teacher Training is implementing programs for the professional training of teachers and co-workers teaching in the language of national minorities. The centre also includes accredited seminars for teachers and co-workers teaching in the language of national minorities. Let me talk a little bit about numbers and statistics. The total coverage of children aged three to five years is low compared to other European countries, as well as the objectives of various education strategies in the Republic of Serbia since 2020. In fact, while the average participation of children aged four to the start of primary school in 28 EU countries in 2012 is around 94%, in Serbia this was the case for about 74% of children of that age. It encourages the overall percentage of preschool children to grow up constantly, while in 2002 32% of children were covered by preschool education, in school 2016-2017 they covered 52.53%. In view of demographic projections, preschool children's population decreases continuously at a rate of up to 1% per year, there is a need for good planning of new pre-school facilities to avoid discrepancies between available capacities and pre-school children. In 28 municipalities in Vojvodina, the preparatory pre-school programme is implemented in two languages, in six municipalities of cities is realised in three languages, in the Serbian, Hungarian and Slovak municipalities of Novi Sad and in the municipality of Kovačica, in the Serbian, Hungarian and Romanian municipalities of Zrenjanin and in the municipality of Žitište, in the Serbian, Hungarian and Russian municipalities of Kula, while in the Serbian, Hungarian and Croatian pre-school programmes are implemented in the territory of the town of Subotica. What concerns is the reduction in the number of children in the preschool period from year to year. On the other hand, according to data from the Republic Statistics Institute covered by secondary school education, the secondary age is 85.4%. It is also evident that before completion of secondary education, there is 3.21% in three-year and 1.29% in four-year secondary education, which is at the level of overall secondary education rate of 1.54%. When we talk about departments with a small number of high school students, the ministry is in school 2017/18. The year approved the opening of Hungarian departments, apothecary technician at the Chemical and Technology School in Subotica, at the Sombor School "Veljko Petrović" and the School of Economics, at the Art School "Bogdan Šput" in Novi Sad and at the Chemical-Food School in Choka, the opening of a combined department of butchers and bakers. Preschool preparation and educational training in Vojvodina in primary and secondary schools alongside Serbian schools are also accomplished in Hungarian, Slovak, Romanian, Russian and Croatian languages, bilingual in national mixed environments. In the AP Vojvodina classes in the languages of national minorities, the national communities were organised in 43 secondary schools, based in 17 local self-government, in 12 gymnasiums, in 27 vocational schools, in two mixed schools and in two art schools in Hungarian. So, in school 2015/16. A year in the territory of AP Vojvodina of 466 regular elementary and secondary schools, in 20, and in 138 schools next to Serbian language teaching is realized in another or two minority languages. A total of 158 schools in addition to the Serbian teaching language have some minority languages. In school 2015/16. The year in 1240 elementary schools in the territory of the Republic of Serbia teaches in Serbian private language, in the language of eight national minorities, Albanian, Bulgarian, Bosnian, Hungarian, Romanian, Slovak and Croatian, as well as combined in the Serbian language and language of the national minority. To conclude slowly, Mr Minister, I would like once again to underline that the SVM parliamentary group and the Party for Democratic Action will support the draft laws and we expect that you will show openness to the adoption of our amendments, whose aim is to bring these proposals in line with the adopted roof law and the other laws mentioned. We are pleased to have built an extremely good cooperation with you in the past, and we hope that you will be open on these suggestions as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-24-0.u23078	Thank you, colleague Fremond. Thank you, of course, for the address and for all fellow Members of the People's Parliament who participated in the discussion today. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00.
