ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18925	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. I invite you to pay our respects to the late MP Miroljub Stankovic for a moment of silence. May eternal glory be his glory. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I have consulted with professional services that say we have the necessary quorum, because there is no agenda. (Send Group Davery laughs out loud. That's funny. It is truly tragic for me to laugh at someone who ran the 15, 20-year-old parliament of the Republic of Serbia, so he could learn at least basic things. I only run the fourth year, so there's hope for me, for some there's no hope. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 122 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has his word, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18926	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question to the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ani Brnabic, why she has not already applied to the National Assembly to resolve Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, who caused a serious incident the other day in the interstate relations between the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China. The incident was made by the fact that, designed on August 19th to transform, when she knew that no domestic company as a subcontractor worked, because none of our workers worked on Conversion, went to the alleged inspection of the construction site from Belgrade to Užica and threatened to terminate the contract with the Chinese firm. At a very delicate moment, she did it. When Serbia makes efforts to agree with the Chinese side to take over RTB Bor and there is a great chance that a powerful Chinese company buys a Fiat factory in Kragujevac that is actually ahead of its extremity, which is preceded by the Fiat. I remind you of how helpful the People's Republic of China has helped us by buying Smederjevska Jelizara, giving twice as much money as the Americans gave us in 2000 and some years, and after the budgets we found out about, I'm holding a press conference today, that Americans have left us $384 million in debts. Those debts fell to the state. At such moments, she makes a move that can't be called anything but high treason. It's not nonsense anymore, it's not nonsense, there's no other name. Under the emergency minister must be relieved. On this occasion, I would like to commend Prime Minister Ana Brnabic for the statement she made on 21 August, when she said – everything we do, we are doing to give birth to more children and for young people to stay in Serbia. I support it from the fifth vessels, but I would also like Prime Minister Ana Brnabic to inform the National Assembly of what he thinks he is personally doing to contribute to our great venture to correct Serbia's birthright. Thirdly, the government has shown complete indolence to the problems of raspberries producers. That's what our representatives were already talking about at one of the last sessions. I remind you that the production of raspberries has become so massive in Serbia, it is actually a Serbian and strategic and export product. I am not in favour of controlling production and exports and taking over the state in my own hands, but the Ministry of Agriculture must always be alert and when it is estimated that there is an express monopoly between the purchaser and the exporter of raspberries, to intervene immediately and to make an appropriate proportion between the retail price on the European market and the purchase price in Serbia. There must be a significant difference, but not exaggerated and not twice or three times larger. So, if Prime Minister Ana Brnabic answers why the government is indignant to the problems of the former major systems in Serbia, the giants of the Serbian economy such as "Gosa", where workers have long been starving, strike hunger, and have nothing to eat, are forced on the strike, until the state takes what could help them in the current situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18927	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18928	Thank you. I have a few questions. The first question concerns and is addressed to the foreign ministry, and as far as this latest incident is concerned, I would say scandals, in relations with the Republic of Macedonia. The question is also about the request - that the Foreign Ministry in one exhausted and correct way, as they have done several times, explain what it is that led above all to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because the minister is making the decision, and then the state summit, to take such a drastic and unusual move as the withdrawal of a complete diplomatic staff from the Embassy in Skopje. It's very good to worry about the country's dignity and I support every act, every move that goes towards preserving the dignity of the state, but this is, that's what anyone who understands diplomatic practice is going to say, an extremely unusual measure. Our country has not made such moves towards countries that have recognised Kosovo, and has not made such moves either towards countries that are actively working to implement Kosovo's independence. Moreover, there are many examples of a very condescending and courting relationship towards the most powerful, primarily Western but most powerful countries that are sponsors of Kosovo's independence, while at the same time towards a country that is essentially friendly, with its problems, with its torments that are even greater than ours in some things, such dragonic moves are being made. After all, only in the event of a direct war threat, and not even then, in the event of a war between the two countries, this guy's measure is withdrawn. The ambassador may withdraw to consultations, be expelled or requested by the country's ambassador to leave the country, some diplomatic representatives may withdraw or declare undesirable, and that is what is normally done. The withdrawal, I repeat, of the complete personal embassy in Skopje is like a measure followed by the bombing and the war. It's either artificial panic in the local public, in the Serbian public, or there are some things, some information we don't know. So I would ask the Ministry to share them either with the public or at least with the MPs, preferably at the session of the Serbian Parliament, but at least then in the internal information of the interested MP. So, as, at least what's publicly visible, with all the following tabloid headlines: "The knife in the back", "Zaev declared war on Serbia", etc., it seems to be the least inappropriate and untasteful, and I have the impression that as a country, we have not defended dignity, but we have emboldened ourselves, so before today and yesterday, we announce the return of our diplomatic presidents. My second question concerns and goes to the address of the Ministry of Traffic, which also once made a lot of effort to answer, when it came to the highway to Timisvar, so I hope it'll be half as exhaustive this time. The issue concerns the work of our national air carrier, i.e. "Er Serbia" and the information that exists in the public that it has been operating for the third year with a loss, i.e. that artificially some small profit is reported and that the price of this profit is enormously high in terms of direct and indirect donations of the Serbian state. The chairman of the Er Serbia Supervisory Board, Mr. Sinisa Mali, who several times earlier when he stressed why JAT must be liquidated and why some measures had to be taken, stressed that the state has invested 30m euros in JAT. According to this information by relevant experts and experts, the granting of Serbia's state, either directly, either via the airport, or through giving up profits from taxes, are almost 60m euros annually. So, "Er Serbia", as a joint venture with Etyhad, costs the state Serbia between 50m and 60m euros annually. That's what I'd like to see the Department of Traffic report on whether your data is accurate and what it intends to do on that occasion. The last question, unfortunately, goes to the office for Kosovo and Metohija, I would personally like the ministry, but still, which is -- which is the state assessment, which has led this expert assessment to the conclusion that the Serb list should be in Kosovo and Metohija, or in the parliament of Kosovo, self-proclaimed self-proclaimed Kosovo, to vote for Ramush Haradinaj? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18929	Time, thank you. The word is Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18930	Thank you very much. There are a lot of questions that have run out of answers, and I think it's good to do it again. It may lead to those who need to give these answers starting to give them. This is just 15 questions I've asked in writing, which I haven't received an answer in the last year. There are two possible reasons for that. One is that these are difficult questions that there is no one to answer, because there is no knowledge, courage, or experience for such a thing. The other thing is that these are issues that are of no interest in the government, so I'm going to repeat them. The first question and all other questions I ask the Prime Minister, and next to it, for each individual issue, it will be asked by one of the ministers. The first question is the Prime Minister – by what act did she transfer her responsibilities to SNS President Aleksandr Vukic? Is there such an act, because every day we are witnessing that the president of the SNS is dealing with the foreign policy of the state, the economy of this country, the traffic, agriculture, environmental protection, and I don't know what everything, and by the Law on Government and the Constitution of Serbia, these are the powers of the Serbian Government and only the government itself, or perhaps in some cases the Prime Minister can pass it on to someone else. Whether it's some act that was brought to the government's secret session, or elsewhere, or whether it's handing over the government without constitutional basis, or whether it's a kidnapping of power. Well, if that's the situation, let's find a way to help the president get his jurisdiction back in his hands. The question of the Minister of Business and Prime Minister – How is the construction of the Chip Factory progressing, how much do I remember in Pancheva, which SNS President Aleksandar Vukic announced three and a half years ago? Are property-legal relations resolved, are construction and urban planning needed, and have works started? Three and a half years ago, a chip factory was announced, the company is "Mubadala", if I am not mistaken, which was certainly according to the SNS president that it would begin the construction. "Asamakum", we still don't know who's behind this big criminal affair. We heard apparently who's not behind it, but let's see who's standing? Some people have been arrested, detained, held in custody, whether or not they have been initiated procedures against them is a matter for the justice minister and also for the Serbian Prime Minister. Is it settled, this is a question for the police minister, Justice Minister and Serbian Prime Minister, an assassination attempt on SNS president in the Lambs? That, I think, a year ago, we had days and days about it, so do we find something there, so whether it isn't, so whether it's Bazuka, so that you're rifles, whether, what it is, I don't have any of that, and that's very strange for a country that boasts about its great fight against crime and its great statistical evidence that we're one of the safest states in the world. What about Cvetan Vasilev, who for three years, exactly three years the other day, has been on the warrant, on a red Interpol warrant for embezzlement in Bulgaria worth billions. At the request of the Bulgarian authorities, it has been kept by the competent or not in charge of this country for three years. Is it the president of the state, whether it's the Prime Minister, the interior minister, the minister of justice, whoever, but it's a disgrace for this country that we've been hiding a criminal, or a criminal suspect for three years, and he's being photographed at the same time with various authorities and is also one of the buyers of the Serbian glass factory Paracino, which, of course, is due, is currently one 30m euros to the state. And, finally, this situation with Macedonia. What happened here? What wisdom happened from Sunday to yesterday at noon. And, regarding that, the Prime Ministers and Foreign Ministers are asking for information on the effects of our measures against France that were introduced a few months ago, where we threatened them sharply, and I no longer remember why, and what has contributed to Serbia's reputation and security?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18931	Thank you. The word is Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18932	Dear citizens of Serbia, dissatisfied with the current power of the SNS and its coalition partners, I would like to ask on your behalf today a question, first of all, to the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is not also responsible ministers for labour and business, and as to the explanation that they are no longer competent and in which way nothing can help the workers of the "Gosa" of Smederjevska Palanka who are absolutely justified in the strike and demand to pay them the wages earned and everything else that comes to them from previous years, and which does not pay them one of the famous foreign investors who are otherwise so praised both the current and former authorities. How, therefore, is it possible that the state washes hands of workers working in this country? How is it possible for the state to side with the tycoon any foreign, any domestic? How is it possible that the state tolerates someone not paying taxes and contributions and how is it possible, at last, that the state does not protect workers who are thus damaged, humiliated and offended? When I talk about it, and at the same time I ask the question, I don't mean just the Gosse workers, they're a symbol of this distressed work in Serbia today, I mean all the humiliated and offended workers of Serbia who have been damaged in various robbery privatisations which, despite the current government's promises for the past six years, no one has been imprisoned by SNS authorities with a judicial verdict, on years of imprisonment, due to the mugging of this people and the state in the past 30 years. When I say this, in particular, about Belgrade workers, workers of former Belgrade giants, from ICL, IMT, workers of "C-market" and others who are damaged as small shareholders in various bankruptcys, in various robbery privatisations, which today try to solve their problem on the streets of Belgrade. So I'm looking for a concrete answer and an explanation of how far their case has arrived. This is not only their case of Belgrade workers, today workers strike in the same way both in Arangelovac and Nis and in Priboj and in a number of other towns and municipalities of Serbia where national, social, national property disappeared in robbery privatisations. What I particularly want to ask the current, mentioned ministers, and I would like to add here the Minister of Agriculture, is, where today, when here, by this extraordinary and urgent procedure, they have to adopt laws on EU orders, where they are today to do something for farmers who are so damaged this year. My colleague, a respected professor, Dr. Miladin Ševarlic calculated that the damage to agriculture is at least a billion euros and that our farmers simply cannot wait for the fall and cannot survive these catastrophic natural disasters that started with those colds, so across the city reached this present huge drought. So, where is the Ministry of Agriculture, where is the Government of the Republic of Serbia to adopt, by emergency procedure, one such kind of support for farmers in Serbia I understand that for you are the priority of migrants, how you will set them up, make them houses and apartments, to include them in the school system because it is another of the orders of your friends from the EU, but I am asking you and I urge you to remind the ministers to finally become our citizens, not gay parades, not migrants, not empty stories about foreign investors who are getting money from our budget, but our citizens, our officers and soldiers who strike, our educators who strike, our strikers who strike, and all others who today in Serbia actually live hard under this devastating and catastrophic power of Alexander Vukic and SNS. So my call to the ministers is to answer our question, when are we going to get laws here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that are in the interests of our citizens, not the IMF, the World Bank, NATO, the EU or foreign firms for which this government works all the time? Are we finally going to do something for the domestic economy, for domestic agriculture, that's my question for the competent ministers, and I'm sure they don't have answers to that question because they have to ask Brussels first.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18933	It is past time, I ask the MPs to ask questions in accordance with the provisions of Article 87. Please, before asking questions, introduce yourself to the content. The word has Enis Imamovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18934	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, MPs, have been more than a month since we referred the question to the minister of police, justice and the Republic Public Prosecutor about finding a mass grave in the courtyard of the House of Health in Novi Pazar. All state authorities, media, and the public have completely ignored the fact that on July 15th of this year, a mass grave was found in the wider centre of one of the largest cities in Serbia with a large number of remains of people I suspect was founded that the posthumous remains of the prominent Bosniaks were shot at Haxhet. It is simply incomprehensible to me that in the 21st century, a mass grave is found and that everyone is silent about it, and that the bones found, once alive, are placed in cardboard chips boxes, in a country that is a candidate for EU membership. Since the exhumation was carried out on an adequate, unprofessional and extremely inappropriate and humiliating, both for victims and their families. We have asked the competent state authorities to provide us with all information regarding this procedure as soon as possible. Due to the exceptional sensitivity of this case, in accordance with the laws and regulations of the law, we are again asking the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Police and the Republic Public Prosecutor, to answer our questions without delay, who and under what circumstances has discovered the mass grave and remains of the Huxhet? Who gave the order for the exhumation of the remains? Where are the remains of the post-exhumation and whose jurisdiction are they? Who are the perpetrators and what institution executed the exhumation? Who supervised the exhumation, and who is the responsible person in this act? Have they conducted all the procedures prescribed by law at the site of the discovery of the mass grave? Is the exhumation fully carried out until all the remains found in this mass grave and who is responsible for determining the identity of the people to whom the remains were found and what is the further procedure that these authorities are planning to take? This is just another in a series of evidence as much as it is necessary to urgently review the action plan for minorities and finally include in it the issue of solving unsolved crimes committed against Bosniaks, the issues of missing, kidnapped, tortured and murdered Bosniaks. This action plan does not provide Bosniaks with any hope and perspective to solve their accumulated problems. The Bosniak people who make up the numbering minority in the Republic of Serbia have many accumulated problems and many unresolved issues, as is the issue of the missing, murdered and exiled Bosniaks, as well as the status of Bosniaks as the people and the status of Sandzaks. Legal representatives of Bosniaks actively participated in the process, however, in an attempt to draw up an action plan for minorities, the government's working group ignored all the requirements of the Bosniak legitimate representatives, to include in this action all those issues which are vital and which are essential for improving the socio-economic position of Bosniaks in the Republic of Serbia. The action plan has not been considered either in the National Council, the Republic of the National Council for Minorities, and thus has not acquired or required the legitimacy necessary for the adoption of this action plan. That is why I am asking the minister, or Prime Minister Brnabic, for an explanation as to why the procedure for the revision of the Action Plan for the exercise of the rights of national minorities has not yet been initiated, and for the adoption of a legitimate proposal, to establish new working groups in which the proposals of legitimate minority representatives will be respected and included in the final document, and finally, to initiate the procedure for the removal of the negotiating team's chief to conceal all these facts in the negotiations with the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18935	Thank you, MP. You asked a question. The word is Predrag Jelenkovic. Ambassador, let me just give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18936	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the issue is addressed to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government. Namely, a group of citizens from the village of Ostrvica, the town municipality of Niška Banja, submitted an initiative in 2014 to the Assembly of the City of Nis for obtaining the status of the inhabited town and returning the old name of Saint Petka. After a positive opinion given by the Planning and adoption Board at the session of the City Assembly on 14 October 2014, and on the basis of Article 8. The Law on Territorial Organization was passed to the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government for verification, i.e. to give consent. As until today, no agreement or any answer has been received, my question is, what else is it necessary for local self-government and what activities are needed to finally make this decision, first and foremost this activity is accompanied by the Ministry and given consent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18937	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18938	I thank the president. So the basic question that I am asking the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic of Serbia, is whether the MPs will be aware of the serious action against the state of Serbia by the Republic of Macedonia? I think that's a very important question, and that people's MPs and citizens of Serbia have the right to know what was so dramatic that it happened, so we had to call the Serbian Embassy and staff for consultations? What is it that caused such a reaction, by the foreign minister, is the Prime Minister even aware of this action against the Republic of Serbia, and why does the President of the Republic of Serbia keep certain information to himself? Nikola Gruevski, as a great friend of the SNS and Aleksandar Vukic, supported an independent Kosovo with all of the Democratic Party of Serbs in its coalition, which later did not leave the coalition. They also voted for Kosovo to enter UNESCO. I am now interested in why the government of the Republic of Serbia's position towards Zoran Zaev, who first said it would be held back on Kosovo's entry into UNESCO and then on Macedonia's relationship with Serbia, when it comes to, pardon, Kosovo and Metohija. Which is why, and on the basis of what information, although we have requested meetings and the Committee on Security and Home Affairs, on the basis of which information did the President of the Republic rouse this public of Serbia when he said that serious enemy actions were being carried out by Macedonia towards our people and our country? Who does this diplomatic war end up with? Does it serve to distract Serbian citizens from the promise that Serbia will have 4% of GDP growth this year? Are these bigger salaries promised over the last six years, from 2012 to today we have had several dozen times the wages and promises of these higher salaries, and no citizens can feel it on their skin. On September 1st, the youngest go to school. A set of textbooks for two children costs over 30,000 dinars, and with pillows and other accessories is 45,000 dinars. Does the diplomatic war with Macedonia mean that Serbia's public needs to deal with all issues today, just not with the most important issues of life? Is it a diplomatic war with Macedonia to distract the public from the coalition that the Serb List in Kosovo is making with Haradinaj, who has been accused of war crimes? Whether it draws attention to the diplomatic war with Macedonia, when it comes to workers and their rights, "Gosse" workers in Serbia today, and the labour minister says he cannot help them because it is a private firm in Serbia. Does the "Er Serbia" bankruptcy, which becomes a low-cost company, draw attention? Does the ruling majority’s attempt to sell the land draw attention? Is it a distraction with corruption and a secret and blurry contract when it comes to the old Sava bridge in Belgrade that costs citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade, does it draw attention to who beat the journalist in Serbia and how they live in Serbia today? It's a question for the President of the Republic, of course, and for the Prime Minister, if she's familiar with any of these issues. It is also important for us as MPs to have the right to hear information about who and on what basis has come to know that Macedonia is taking hostile measures towards our country and our people, and we think that it is a one-cut scenario all the time, so that only citizens can be distracted from basic life issues. I don't think it's going to work out for you today when it comes to tennis and the tycoons you're trying to sell to the Serbian country and once and for all to impoverish Serbian peasants and to provide your tycoons with increasing and higher quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18939	Thank you, Ambassador. I ask Members to ask questions in accordance with Article 287. As far as the appointment is concerned, it cannot, of course, be answered by either the President or the Prime Minister. Would you like an answer to Mr Bozovic? Do you want an answer about the committee meeting and who you asked about parliament and the work of parliament? Since the president of the government and the president of the state can't answer you about the work of parliament, otherwise you would object if you responded. I would just like to instruct you that an appointment of a committee meeting is required under Article 71 of the request of one-third of the Members of the total number of members. If you have a serious intention to convene that committee, please comply with the Rules of Procedure of your request, and if this is not the order for the purpose of setting a topic for the purpose of the subject, if you really want the committee to be appointed, please in accordance with Article 71, that the required number of Members sign that request, specify the date and specify a specific topic within the scope of the work of the committee. You have not made any of this out of your two demands, and I ask you to commit yourself to that and to comply with your demands with the Rules of Procedure. This cannot be answered by the President of the State and by the Prime Minister, but I am not involved because it is not my jurisdiction. Thank you. The word is Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18940	Thank you. The first question comes for Minister of Labour Djordjevic – who owns "Gosse"? Has the Ministry of Labour launched an inspection in "Gosa"? Does the Labour Act provide that employees receive salaries or that provision of the law does not apply to "Gosse" workers? Another question for Education Minister Sarčević – does he know that the average household income in Serbia is 57,000 dinars and that it takes between 15 and 20,000 dinars to equip students? Does he know that serious countries in the world are taking care of birth and education and that children are getting textbooks? Like, my kids went to school in Canada, America, and they got all the textbooks there. Why is there no such thing in Serbia? This is not a major item in the budget, and it is very important for all parents in Serbia, especially important for promoting birth and parenting. The third issue of Transport Minister Mihajlovic – does he know that "Er Serbia" from 2014 to 2016 received over 160m euros in budget subsidies, a gift, that this is more than JAT has ever received – whether she knows she did not receive that gift, "Er Serbia" would make losses of more than 150m euros, so she fictitiously shows profit. Does he know that apart from this money, the airport is indirectly subsidized by “Er Serbia” by freeing fees, releasing debts, etc. When is this practice going to end? The fourth issue goes to the chairman of the Committee on Security of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, the DJB parliamentary group has filed an emergency session of the Security Committee, to which Foreign Minister Dacic and Director BIA Gasic would be invited to discuss security threats coming from Macedonia only through the media, a place to discuss such matters is the Security Committee, to hear where the threats are coming from, how big they are and which is why the government has taken such an important, serious move as the withdrawal of the entire embassy from Skopje. We must respect the institutions of the system for institutions that need to supervise the work of the government. The fifth question goes to the defence minister, during the reading of the exposés, I read the minister's biographies and asked the minister, the current prime minister, about the minister's qualifications. I didn't get the answer. I will repeat the question, let's say for Alexander Vulin, he was assistant director of marketing at Super Press, then director of marketing at Kolor Press, then editor-in-chief of the weekly Pecat and columnist in several daily and weekly papers, the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac, according to his biography. The question for the minister is when he graduated from the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac and what does he think, based on his biography, which he himself supplied to the Assembly, qualified him to be minister of defense? The sixth question goes to the Minister of Trade Ljajic – is it true that the owner of "Informer" is co-owner of the company for the retail sale of raspberries? Does the minister know that shoppers and buyers kill raspberries and what he's going to do to stop it, that all the profits from the work the rabbles are investing are going to the shoppers and the buyers? The seventh question is a question for agriculture minister Nedimovic, farmers in Serbia have been hit by a great drought that will have unsightly consequences for them, many have taken loans, have been in charge, will have a big problem with continuing to operate. The question is, what about the big projects that were announced for irrigation, which were more likely to come from investments, from Arab investors, and what would they do about droughts and help our agricultural landowners? The 8th issue goes to Finance Minister Vujovic – how many days since the beginning of the year was the minister in Serbia, and how many abroad and how many in Serbia were in his post? The second issue is economic growth in the first six months below 1.3% of the budget, how does it expect growth to be about 5% by the end of the year and from which sectors and what are the new projections of the growth of the Republic of Serbia's budget? Then, 24 times so far, we have asked the President of the Republic, the former Prime Minister, and we have asked 16 times the President of the Assembly, to which we have never received an answer. Article 287. The Rules of Procedure say the answers are delivered in writing. The question for the President of the Assembly is when he will schedule the session...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18941	Next time, it's been five minutes. Remember where you left off, then next time ask me a question. Now all I can answer you about is your request to hold a session of the board. Please align with the member... (National MP Sasa Radulovic throws out of place. Ma, you have no idea. ... in accordance with Article 70. (Saša Radulovic: I don't care about that. I know you're not interested. You're talking about the media, not the essence. (Sasa Radulovic: It is not in line with the Rules of Procedure. All right. Don't yell at me. We haven't worked very long. So, there's time to scream. Article 71 speaks of how, in which way and what it is necessary to state in the request for holding board meetings. So you have to have one third of the signatories of the board, you have to specify the agenda and you have to specify the time limit in which you ask to hold a session of the board. You've been looking for some agenda points, and you haven't met the other conditions. You must also state the reports you were referring to, since the reports submitted by the foreign ministers... (Saša Radulovic: You are violating Article 287.) Rules of Procedure. It is, yes. The reports are provided for on committees, and I urge you to submit your request to the President of Parliament or to the presidents of the committees. There's so much I can do for you, I can guide you on how the motions for holding a session are being written. And to the other questions, when you have something concrete to ask me, I will certainly answer you. For now, I have to admit, I didn't know to answer the questions you asked me because I don't know what it was about. (Saša Radulovic: You are violating Article 287.) Rules of Procedure. ) You are in breach of Article 171(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but I will not punish you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18942	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no need to draw attention to the fact that "Goshu" has sold the Democratic Party and that for four years, how long the monitoring of the Privatisation Agency has lasted, they have done nothing to check whether the customers "Gosse" fulfil their obligations to workers, so I am telling the "Gosa" workers to ask the Democratic Party what they have done about their rights and cooperative relations in their company. These days, we are being lectured on diplomacy and foreign policy by DOS leaders, former DOS leaders, so here I want to use this time to ask the government of the Republic of Serbia, the foreign ministry, BIA, VBA, VOA - what was the role of the DOS leader, such as Zoran Zivkovic, in breaking the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, what was the role of DOS leader in breaking the state union of Serbia-Montenegro? What did DOS leaders who led Serbia in 2008, when a large number of countries in the world, reportedly their friends, recognise the self-proclaimed independence of KIM? What did DOS leaders do, what did MPs who were elected to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia from a list of Dossos parties, such as the Democratic Party, the Democratic Party of Serbia, etc., when in March 2004, otherwise all the great heroes, the Cypriots committed a coup over the Serb people in KIM and burned dozens of Serbian Orthodox churches and monasteries in March 2004? Furthermore, I ask the question to these competent state authorities -- how is it possible that these great acquaintances of diplomacy, those who lecture on good neighbourly relations, those who tell us that we should lead foreign policy, how is it possible that since 2008, when the largest number of countries that have recognised the independence of KIM did so in 2008, how is it possible that from Belgrade, imagine this heroism and that force, from Belgrade, were expelled by letter and by the number of only two ambassadors? I'm asking the Foreign Minister how could that have happened? Only Macedonian Ambassador Mr. Aco Vasilevski has been expelled and Montenegro's Ambassador, Mrs. Anka Vojvodic, has been expelled. This was in October 2008, a day after the United Nations General Assembly decided that the International Court of Justice was being asked by Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic about the legality of the declaration of independence of KIM, so when we received an answer from the International Court of Justice that was extremely unfavourable for the Republic of Serbia, then the number of countries in the world that recognised KIM independence increased. Also, I ask the competent state authorities, and I've already asked that many times before, who ordered the killing of Ranko Panic in Belgrade in the summer of 2008, who ordered that mosques be lit in Belgrade? So today, we have no conflicts in Serbia, no one dies, no incidents, no peace in Serbia, peace in the region, and during their rule, during those who ruined Serbia between 2000 and 2012, many disasters occurred, including on the agenda of foreign policy. How is it possible that no other ambassador from Belgrade has been expelled and has been declared a person non grato, except for the ambassador of Macedonia, who, Balsa Bozovic, tells us now our great friend and how it is possible that only Anka Vojvodić and none other than 86 countries that have recognised their independence in the period from 2008 to 2012, so during their rule, KIM?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18943	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18944	Thank you. (Saša Radulovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, just to let Sasa Radulovic know she can't advertise the Rules of Procedure during asking questions. I'd like to ask you a few questions if the former regime and their assistant who raises this Rules of Procedure are allowed. My first question concerns Mr. Sutanovac, who is popularly referred to as the "Snaps" in the people. Is it true, and this is a question for the Anti-Corruption Agency, that 300,000 euros were found in Mr Sutanovac's accounts? Those 300,000 euros were found after buying and building an apartment on Vrakar, which is over 300 square meters. So that's the rest of some money, and that's why I'm asking the Anti-Corruption Agency how someone who had a 1000-euro salary could acquire an apartment or part of a 300-square-metre building and have 300-square-metre account left over? With regard to the issue of the Anti-Corruption Agency -- how is it possible and may be related to arms smuggling, how is it possible that the same person has a collection of watches estimated at several hundred thousand euros? So, the question is clear and loud and it ends with what will the Anti-Corruption Agency finally take seriously against Mr. Sutanovac, who is popularly referred to as the "Snaps", not only against him but also against other persons? With that in mind, I ask the following question for these honorable and congratulatory opposition, to answer me, the police to answer whether Mr. Sasa Jankovic, popular in the people like Prangia, has a license to ride boats and yachts, so that we do not get that license retroactive again, as well as the gun from which Gojkovic was killed? The question is clear and loud, the police need to answer whether the person mentioned, Mr Jankovic, had a license to ride a boat, or a yacht. It was almost like a boat, a little longer than a simple boat. The next question concerns Mr. Radulovic, who is known in the people as the bankruptcy manager of all bankruptcy managers. Is it true that Mr. Radulovic and his related banks have hundreds of thousands of euros? This is the question of the Anti-Corruption Agency, to try, regardless of the links its MPs have with certain members of the Agency, is it unbiased whether it is true that it has banking roles and interrelated persons who are several hundred thousand euros? It's estimated to be about half a million. To answer what they think they are doing about it, as Mr Radulovic does not have any financial and other assets in the application. Finally to answer, and I asked a question about the replacement of agricultural land, which Miodrag Kostic, i.e. "MK Komerc" and "Agrounia", whose buyer, replaced in the Indji Municipality, gave these small plots to get these state-owned and large ones. Is it against the law, because in law it's not possible for many reasons? And the next question is about that land. Since part of the land was built "Energo Zelena", which leads to a dispute against our country of 130m euros, is it true that this replaced state agricultural land was sold through the Indji Municipality in 2010 "Energo Green" for money that was ten times the cost of agricultural land. Why did the state not directly sell the land to the Energogreen, and the municipalities, why did it have to replace it with Miodrag Kostic, so that Miodrag Kostic would sell it to the municipality, and then the municipality would sell it to the "Energogreen" municipality? The result of all these corruption affairs is that today, "Energogreen" sues us and leads an international dispute of 130m euros. And, in this regard, to examine in detail the criminal activities of this joint criminal enterprise called the former regime, to give us the exact answers that all criminal activities have led to today's 130m-euro dispute against our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18945	Anyone else want to ask a question? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the Assembly to discuss the draft law on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you have been informed, for the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, the following is set: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today's session is attended by Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management Branislav Nedimovic, V.D. Assistant Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management Daniela Milosavljevic, Dragana Gođevac, V.d. Director of the Department of Agriculture Land at the Ministry, Ruzica Tripic, head of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and Prof. Dr. Dragan Milic, special adviser at the competent ministry. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act. Does the representative of Prime Minister Nedimovic want a word? The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18946	President-in-Office of Parliament, honourable MPs, I am very pleased to be able to present to you today the amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land, therefore, one law which in the past few years has awakened quite a lot of interest, especially with regard to the things we are going to talk about today, which is, above all, the liberalisation of the agricultural land market. In order to come to the field of legal solutions at all, I think it is very important that we begin to point out some of the things that have been going on in the past nine years, since the moment of acceptance of the SAA and the facts that have arisen from this and the commitments that have been under way since 1 September 2013, within the four-year period left for us to adapt our regulations and to meet international agreements. I must say that we are the only country that has failed during the negotiations, then, in 2008 to act for itself a transitional period after joining the EU. They're facts and they're facts we can't escape from. The reasons that this came about, we can talk about each of them, but I'm afraid we'd have to stay here a long time. The fact is, we don't have the privilege of having other countries. By amending this Law and the conditions that we set, we are in fact correcting what is defined by the SAA, creating and protecting the interests of Serbia and Serbian farmers, so that in one legally justified way, the Constitution allows and the law allowed, in accordance with the practice that exists in the EU, to protect Serb oracles, primarily because of the great interest that exists from agricultural producers, the great interest that exists in the public. In this way, by amending this Law, we are making a new transitional period within which conditions must be met in order to even achieve any legal traffic by natural persons, foreigners, and related to private property. I must say that we have a constitutional basis in Article 85 and Article 97. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Individuals indicated that we had no justification in the Law on Fundamentals of Property Law. We do, especially with regard to reciprocity. The law he defined, which ratified the SAA, also states in favor. And what is doubtless and what is the fact, in this way, of these amendments to the law, which I will talk about in the coming minutes, we have protected, above all, the interests of Serbia and the interests of Serbian agricultural holdings, Serbian orities. What does the law actually say? For ten years, a deadline has been foreseen from the moment the law is passed, i.e. the adoption of a law under which natural persons who are EU citizens must have housing in order to even come into a situation where they can buy private-owned agricultural land, I would like to stress once again, private-owned agricultural land. Agricultural land in state property is not a subject here at all, is not the subject of debate and cannot be spoken of. There are reasons why it's like that. We don't have complete restitution procedures. We have some other laws that haven't been finished since 1992. It's, first of all, the law of so-called. PZF, i.e. the return of agricultural land from 1992. This is how we introduce a 10-year term, how much someone has to live in the territory of a local self-government unit where they want to buy agricultural land. That's enough of one narrow frame. The deadline, once again, begins to run from the day of the law, so any stories that concern someone who has lived under the Foreign Law for several years to be counted on that deadline, that's not true. The other thing that is very important, to say, is that the person who wants to buy agricultural land must and process the agricultural land that has been the subject of legal work for at least three years. Now the question will be asked – how is that even possible? Well, it's possible over the lease. So we need to clearly distinguish here property rights from lease rights, and individuals very often from different political initiatives mix the right to rent and the right to property, which is heaven and earth, when you talk about the different quality of rights that someone has. Also, it's about cumulative conditions, I must say, so they must all be fulfilled, not just one of them. This person must have registered agricultural holdings in an active status of 10 years uninterrupted. This is why we want, if such legal traffic occurs in 10 or more years, that person to show seriousness in carrying out agricultural production, in addition to this one general condition, that he must have tools in his own possession, agricultural land-processing machines, not that he has something to rent, not that he has something based on a business-technical co-operation contract, which is often used as an instrument in the processing of agricultural land. And when all these cumulative conditions are met, there's one more thing that's a restriction and it's an attempt to solve this thing, to fix as much as possible to avoid automatic liberalisation, it's a maximum of two acres of agricultural land purchase. I must make it clear, too, that the subject of purchase, the subject of legal work, cannot be agricultural land which, in accordance with special law and plans, is defined as building land. There are a lot of people here in the O.R. who ran local self-government, doing business in local self-government. There are also agricultural land which are defined as building land by plan, but are used for agricultural purposes until the time of the inauguration of the purpose, i.e. the construction of buildings of a building nature, and they have taken care of it. Also, when it comes to protected natural goods, absolutely it cannot be an object. We also took care of Serbia's security, that they could not be the subject of legal work, the subject of the purchase or the plots located near military complexes, which are within the polygons themselves, and there are such cases. There, here, is near us, on a polygon that's near Ruma, where we have private properties within the polygon, and it can't be sold at all. And I also want to say one thing, as far as restitution is concerned, this law exempts the restitution, because this is the thing that this National Assembly, so the restitution and that law that regulates that matter, has adopted and it's excluded from this process that we've been talking about. We have another control mechanism in a series of control mechanisms, which is the right to intercept purchase by the Republic of Serbia. Even when someone wants to buy, they achieve 10, 11, 12 years of these cumulatively prescribed conditions, the Republic of Serbia stands with the right to prevent purchases. There is a mechanism that has been developed for these purposes and I hope that we will use it. Any legal work that is contrary to all of this is automatically nothing. I want to say one thing, which is very important and that a lot has been talked about in this period for a few days. The two topics were because obviously, although the farmers' associations say – we are satisfied, a large number, the largest number of political parties say – yes, that's it. Many have talked about it all these years ago. They ask the question - why didn't you solve it earlier? (Radoslav Milojic: When you were in power. I'm now asking one conflicting question - that we did it for a year or when you Mr. Keno were able to bring it...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18947	Do not, please, address yourselves directly, the messengers of the people to the guests, and the guests to the messengers of the people. Thank you, continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18948	... Or a new opportunity like you said. If we'd brought in a year ago, they'd have accused us if we wanted to get into this process sooner. Now that we're doing it in deadlines, now it's no good and it says, what you're bringing now. Whatever you do, someone will always find a grudge, but what makes me particularly happy is that the public has given its judgment on this and said this is in line with the interests of the Republic of Serbia. One more thing I want to say is there's a lot of talk about legal persons, foreign legal entities can't be able to buy agricultural land at all. That's what the law says. Questions are raised by individuals – what about the legal persons who are Serbian, so they are founded by other persons, but they are established under the Law on Economic Society, and they are Serbian legal entities. They pay their profits here, they meet all their tax obligations here. These are business entities that are business entities of the Republic of Serbia. I know that during today's debate, I'm going to use my right to continue to discuss this subject, but there's another threat to constraint. If you limit the right to what is left of agricultural entities, to pass the ownership transformation process to get new markets, to get new technologies, to get new investments, if there are any suggestions in the public, which I have heard these days, you will be in a situation, because the largest number of agricultural goods has been sold under the Privatisation Act, sold, the finished thing, has passed. If there are restrictions on what some advocate, it means that they want to tear down a circle of people who can participate in international tenders tomorrow, to get new investments, new technologies, new markets and to concentrate on only a narrow circle of people, and you know who bought agricultural goods after 2003, that there was "Delte", that there were "MK groups", that there were other entities, and if there was what some advocate, it means that we would only allow them to do so. We wouldn't have an international character and we couldn't have investments on the other side. You should take care of this, too. Is that a protection of Serbian interests? When you narrow down the space and allow someone for cheap money to come, a narrow circle of people, a man from Koceljeva has no right, agricultural land or some cooperative from Ariel. So, take care, these are sensitive things. The government of the Republic of Serbia is interested in protecting Serbian agricultural land. It is also important to develop our Serbian agriculture in a way that we have modern technologies, modern processing industries. This is a very important question we need to talk about. He will often say that the SAA could have changed. It's literally driving people crazy. It requires a great procedure and we wouldn't be able to protect our interests. In this way, through these amendments to the law, we have proposed, if the National Assembly accepts it, I would ask for your support, because this is important for Serbia and for the protection of agricultural land in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18949	Thank you, Minister. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18950	The Honorable Chairman-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is on the agenda one of the most important laws in the matter of agriculture. The Agricultural Land Act is important for all our farmers, and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and on behalf of the SVM and the Party for Democratic Action, I want to make our views known on this important issue. Two years ago, in this high house, we changed the Law on Agricultural Land when the main reasons for changing the law were to remove certain problems, shortcomings in the application of the law. At that time, new solutions were introduced that enabled better management of agricultural land in the public property of the Republic of Serbia. At that time, we said that agricultural land is a resource and good for the Republic of Serbia. I think that's why it has an extremely big role and great significance. In the case of agricultural producers, this topic raises the highest interest, the issue of ownership of agricultural land, or land use, always causes the highest interest in the producer. If I say that in my environment, in Vojvodina, 50% of the citizens are somehow connected to this area, then it is clear to everyone that this topic is serious and very important. The adoption of the bill is important because it is a matter of responsibility and the moral right of our generation to have agricultural land that is the basis for the sustainable development of the next generations. The question of values that we want to preserve when it comes to agricultural land is raised. It takes one and a half million years to form 60 centimeters of land, which means 20,000 generations of the average age of 75. Agricultural land is the most productive and economically important category of land available, which is practically non-renewable natural resource. We need to be careful and sensitive when it comes to agricultural land, because land policy is much dependent. We all have to think together in advance, because we just don't know what kind of challenges we're facing in the coming decades, we don't know if there's gonna be enough food, for example in a few decades, it doesn't matter what and how we produce and it doesn't matter who manages this natural resource and how. The SVM parliamentary group has been monitoring the land policy situation for years. Balint Pastor, head of our parliamentary group, mentioned four years ago, on December 26th 2013, in his question of the president and vice president of the government that perhaps at first sight it might be thought that it was a matter of agriculture, but it was strategic issues, political issues when it comes to land. Balint Pastor had already said that SVM should provide that agricultural land can only be purchased by someone who is a registered agricultural producer, who has been resident for a number of years in the area of the Catastrian municipality, etc. The issue then voted on what the government of the Republic of Serbia wants to do, because under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in Article 63. The Stabilisation and Association Agreements between EU Member States from 1 September 2017 can acquire property rights over agricultural land in the Republic of Serbia, under which citizens of the Republic of Serbia can do so and should somehow be prevented, or limited. It's not the government at the time, and neither is this government to blame for the situation. However, it is up to us to limit this in some way, that is, to protect our interests, to preserve our natural wealth. No country that wanted to become an EU member has allowed citizens of EU member states several years before joining the EU, but has done so several years after full membership. I would say just a few examples, the Republic of Poland has negotiated a Stabilisation and Association Agreement in such a way that they can reach EU citizens for 12 years after the accession of the Republic of Poland to the EU. In the Czech Republic, it is 10 years after accession, as well as in Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Slovakia, etc. In the case of Serbia, in a few days this part of the agreement comes into force, and we are still far from full membership in the EU. Of course, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement cannot be changed, it is accepted and we must stick to it. However, we should always be careful to find a place for the interests of our agricultural producers by non-breaching the agreement. Two years ago when we changed the law and then we talked about this problem and we proposed similar solutions that are now in the bill. Otherwise, the most pressing issues of agricultural producers were related to the rights of the agricultural land rental championship, since they were not aware of the consequences of the provisions which give investors the opportunity to rent agricultural land for 30 years. At that time, we said it was important that the Republic of Serbia in no way loses its right to own agricultural land, because agricultural land is a natural wealth that will be natural wealth in 350 years, if managed properly. Every country in the environment keeps its natural wealth, its agricultural land, knowing that food will be the highest value in decades to come. I believe that the state of Serbia should also keep that in mind and we are glad that this government, headed by Mrs. Brnabic, and Agriculture Minister Mr. Nedimovic, is keeping his word and taking care of what was promised in the exposé. It has been promised that the state of Serbia will preserve its natural wealth and we are now doing so. I should point out that we, SVM MPs, have never been, nor will we ever be against any foreign investor, because we believe that investments are welcome, that they are necessary and that without an external capital infusion, without the development of economy and agriculture, we would tap into the city for decades. However, we have always stressed in these four years, since the agreement came into force, this part of the agreement, that we should specify who and how can acquire the right of ownership of land, the lease, or to specify which land and how it can be given to foreigners. Two years ago, we supported the purchase of land in state property for our producers and for small agricultural holdings that land up to 30 hectares of agricultural land. Until then, this is not what our producers had, and we believe that in the future it is extremely important that they continue to have this possibility. Of course, our producers who land on smaller surfaces, because they can only survive, and at the same time, through the amendments of the law, we are now further protecting them, because we are in practice limiting foreigners to the purchase of land. Two years ago, our amendments that went in the direction of taking care of who and how they can rent agricultural land mean that within three years someone has an active status, or that they live in the same catastrian municipality, a cadastrian unit where the land is rented. The purchase increased to five years, which is also very good with this draft law, which is on the agenda, we protect not only state property, but also private property. Of course, when it comes to agricultural land, we must not talk about the problems of restitution and what is unfortunately not talked about enough. The SVM and PDD parliamentary group openly advocates returning the seized property and if it can do so as quickly as possible. It is known how many hectares they have submitted to the request and how many hectares the state has in its possession. We should openly say that it's much less wanted back than the state has, so we need to get everything back to the right owners and let them decide what they're going to do with it, whether they're going to process it, whether they're going to sell or betray it. I should say that SVM MPs believe that the land which is subject to restitution is in no way to be sold. Of course, it's in the law and we support it as much as possible. Let's go back to the draft law on the agenda and the Stabilisation Agreement. What does the Stabilisation and Association Agreement say? Namely, Article 63(2). The Law on Confirmation of the Agreement has been laid down that, following the entry into force of this Agreement, Serbia will allow citizens of EU Member States to acquire property over real estate in Serbia, with full, comprehensive application of existing procedures. Over a period of four years from the entry into force of this Agreement, Serbia will gradually align its legislation, which concerns acquisition of property over real estate in Serbia, to ensure that EU citizens receive the same treatment as their citizens. If we look at European experiences in the area of agricultural land sales, we see that different legislations are mostly imposed by three types of restrictions. The rights concern the types of land and prescribe that it is forbidden to sell national resources, such as mineral resources and similar strategic resources. The other is about the way you use it. For example, a sale contract is terminated in Germany if the country is processed. The third refers to the buyer of agricultural land. The restrictions concern the maximum number of hectares that one can buy, through compulsory residence, to the necessary previous experience in agriculture. I should say once again because of the public that, unfortunately, Serbia has no room for a different application of the Agreement, and we as a state must respect it. However, through legal provisions, we can tighten the criteria for obtaining the right to purchase land, and in this law it is exactly what is done. In view of the fact that conditions for obtaining property over real estate, the agricultural land of EU citizens, in accordance with the following agreement, is a matter which can only be regulated by law, this bill has been drawn up and its adoption has been proposed. Through these solutions, for example, we will manage to postpone the purchase of agricultural land for EU citizens by 2027. Of course, similar practices exist in various EU Member States, each of which keeps its own in every way possible. We think that's what we should do. The amendment concerns Article 1(4) of the applicable Act, which stipulates that the owner of agricultural land cannot be a foreign natural or legal person, so that in order to comply with the provisions of the Confirmation Act, Article 4 requires that the parties cannot be the owners of agricultural land, unless otherwise specified by this law, in accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. However, this law does not state the conditions under which a legal person can own agricultural land, but only the conditions for natural persons. What is in the draft law - a citizen of an EU Member State - a private-owned agricultural land can be obtained by legal work, with or without compensation, under the conditions laid down by this law, a private-owned agricultural land may be acquired if it is continuously inhabited for at least 10 years in a local self-government unit in which agricultural land is transported, it shall process at least three years of agricultural land subject to legal work, with or without compensation, has registered agricultural land in active status as a holder of family agricultural land in accordance with a law governing agriculture and rural development, without interruption for at least 10 years and if it is owned by machinery and equipment to carry out agricultural production. It is also positive that according to the proposal, the Republic of Serbia has the right to prevent the purchase of private agricultural land, which is the subject of legal work, where the right to prevent purchases is approved by the Government on a proposal from the Commission, in accordance with this law. It is also good that the person can acquire the most property on two hectares of private-owned agricultural land, if the conditions prescribed by this law are met. We welcome the proposal that the provisions of this law relating to the conditions for obtaining private agricultural land by EU citizens are not applied in the case of recovery of property, which is carried out in accordance with the laws governing the return of seized property to former owners. We believe that the proposed amendment of the Agricultural Land Act will only make sense in the light of long-term planning and opening of new economic perspectives, as well as strategically thought-out further development, not just agriculture, but society as a whole. The SVM parliamentary group's position, the Party for Democratic Action, is that the proposed solutions are in the spirit of existing European solutions, and that the arrival of a number of new owners will bring new technologies and knowledge and contribute to improving competition in Serbia. The fact is also that in agriculture, a positive trade balance has increased significantly over the past two years, despite the numerous doubts raised due to the liberalisation policy that is being implemented in line with the SAA. In 2016, Serbia's positive trade balance with the EU for basic agricultural products amounted to more than 440m euros, 12% more than in 2015. The SVM parliamentary group, the Party for Democratic Action, supports the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land, starting with the fact that the essence of the problem we need to address is not only the issue of selling the country to foreign citizens, but the question of how to strengthen the economic position of farmers, how to solve the problem of the depopulation of the village of demographic ageing. What is most important is that through this legal solution Serbia fulfils the obligations of the agreement and also protects the interests of our citizens, or agricultural producers, which is also in our coalition agreement with the SNS. In the end, I just want two more topics to mention the minister and take the opportunity to ask some questions. The first question is about the drought. What I'm interested in is when producers can count on some measures that will in some part reduce their losses, or what is the Ministry planning to do, and how does it want to help farmers in this extremely dry year? The second issue is about pension and disability insurance of agricultural producers. Mr. Minister, what we're interested in is whether there's a chance that we can solve the debt problem of our farmers this year and change the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, the part that concerns agricultural producers? You promised and it's done a lot on this point, but we're interested when we can expect further shifts. Finally, I need to reiterate once again that you can count on the support of SVM and the Party for Democratic Action as regards the amendment and addition of the Agricultural Land Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18951	Thank you, colleague Fremond. The word has a minister. Here you go. Sign up again. Something's wrong with the system. Wait a minute. We'll take a break from one minute, wait for a new card for the minister, so he can answer his colleagues. Thank you. [[After a break.]] The word has Minister Nedimovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18953	Dear Chairman, I apologize for this technical lack. I wanted to answer a few things to my colleague, Fremond, because I felt that they had been asked questions in several different directions. Your first thought of strategic interest and agricultural land is no doubt unquestionably. This goes beyond the boundaries of agriculture, an extremely important political topic, the topic of a single resource of a country that is unrenewable and very much to be taken into account. So, it absolutely stands for your point of view and the experience you mentioned in the EU absolutely speaks in favour of what we have proposed, although they, I must say, had a transitional period after EU accession, all. In 2008, the SAA was so negotiated that we had no right to do so, but these tools are being used. The tools we adapted are absolutely in line with the practice that exists. There was one question these days – did you ask the EU for this, or what will happen about this? We are a country that is on the path of European integration and that is beyond doubt. We are in favour of joining the EU and accepting all EU values. But there's one thing we took care of here is the interests of Serbia, and I've asked one conflicting question. Since we have benefited from all the conditions and, to put it this way, the rules written in EU member states, such as Poland, which you have listed, such as Slovakia, Romania, Estonia, Lithuania, the Czech Republic, so they would have to throw out their ten members if anyone wanted to say something on this subject, and we sent a proposal for this law when we adopted it in the Government, in accordance with the procedures adopted in the context of the adoption of certain regulations. Two things you've been asking questions about. One issue is the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, which refers to farmers. Yes, his preparations are under way. Our share of the obligations that the Ministry of Agriculture had to do in terms of determining the economic power of agricultural land, we did this work precisely, not on a flat-rate basis, as it was done 20-30 years ago, seven to ten years ago, all of it, and then when you arrived, it was the same obligation for one hectare and a hundred acres. That's how it was under the 2008 or 2009 law, I can't remember anymore. They were just making commitments. You, at this point, have 180 billion dinars of commitment, which is based on the principal, which is based on interest. It must be cut, once, this circle of spells and enable people to have their economic strengths, that those people who want to pay more to have bigger pensions, but to establish, too, where that lower limit is where the state has to intervene. I'm talking about pension and disability insurance. It's a completely different segment of health insurance, because very often people mix it up. Of course, with the Ministry of Labour, we're working on this preparation and it will be in front of the MPs in the coming months. As for drought, the very important thing for Serbian agriculture is what value will be made on agricultural land this year. We had an external good in 2016, with very large yields, the most significant agricultural cultures. Let me remind you, our GDP in agriculture is divided from 67 to 33, warfare, with vegetables and fruit growing, according to livestock. In the structure of plant production, the most involved are corn, naturally, almost 35%. The fact that this year we have a troubled situation somewhere more and less. I think it's perfectly normal, in one exact way to determine just how much damage it's going to be, and not to have a flat-rate determination in July of whether it's going to be one way or another. The fact that, and I'm not running away from it, we're going to go out with a set of measures, the Ministry of Agriculture, we've been doing a lot of work since July, because this thing hasn't passed us now. The fact that we're not talking about these concrete measures, well, I can't figure out that someone in one area is reducing the tax liability, and yet they don't know what the damage is and what the consequences are. It's very politically good, but I think we have to deal with these things explicitly. A very important, sensitive question. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Agriculture will come out with measures, we have already talked to all business banks about possible inability or the possibility of paying their financial obligations on the basis of subsidised or commercial loans taken by agricultural owners or cooperatives. We're taking care of it, and don't have any doubts. What's our fight against drought is irrigation systems. So this year, 50,000 acres of new finished irrigation systems will be, that is, for the next spring set, where we will have finished these systems, eleven systems in total. We've run a cycle, and we have the idea every year that we have that capacity. For the next five, six years, to get to the desired 300,000-hectare figure that we're going to upgrade to this, not just, these are the highway routes, the channel network. You have a irrigation system that is linked to individual systems by drilling wells. It's a special segment that we subsidize with 50% compared to the cost that someone has, for one simple reason, we want as much land as possible in the irrigation system. What's for road transport, highway, that's for agriculture, irrigation systems. Thirty, forty years, since the late '70s, not that they haven't been built, but they haven't even maintained irrigation systems for a while. I mean, we're dealing with this problem, and we've already got the first four projects that started this week, or tomorrow, going on five more projects. Some are two-purpose systems that serve both deforestation and irrigation, some are regional systems, such as Tisa-Palic. So this way we want to put the greater amount of agricultural land to work, and that's our fight against droughts, the systematic fight against these opportunities, or the troubles that arise. We will also especially insist on the system of insurance for agricultural production, because this is a way to fight the damage that can occur. The fact is, we only have 10.5% of the agricultural area covered by the insurance system. Something more in fruits and vegetables, less when it comes to warfare. The thought comes to us most often – well, I guess it won't. Since 2012, people have often had different weather conditions. Is this going to be like this in the future or not? I don't know, and we can't trust that it won't exactly, for that reason the subsidy system, the insurance premium is such that 40% of the insurance premium, either basic, or special insurance, the state returns. We will go a step further next year, our intention is that for those areas, which are located in the border area where there is no, because you do not fire anti-urban missiles at a 90 degree angle, you defend the area either behind you or in front of you depending on how you set yourself up, therefore, defend or neighbouring municipality located north, south, east or west of you. We need to develop that system. Fully, we have at this point over 1,300 anti-urban stations. This year we've acquired more than a year ago anti-urban missiles, but that's not our goal. We're looking at a new digital system of anti-building protection, so maybe it sounds funny to someone, but today, we live in the 21st century, we know at every moment in the cloud where there's potential danger. With remote systems deprived of a subjective approach that can literally pair a cloud with an anti-urban missile, that we have the highest degree of prevention to achieve. We just have to keep one thing in mind, the anti-urban system isn't 100% secure. There are no systems that provide 100% protection in such a system of defense. Well, here's Hungary next to us, only five counties have developed this system. Watch out, not even modern missile systems in defense structures, well, they don't have 100% always accuracy, we see it all over the world today. The third thing, which is very important, we have to turn to agriculture in a new way, to do the electrification of fields, the large infrastructure corridors with the electrification of fields, in order to cost agricultural production, so that the irrigation systems can function. I know you all know that, but that's what we intend to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18954	Thank you, Minister. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18955	Dear citizens of Serbia, every day more and more dissatisfied with this catastrophic power of the SNS, which has been lying and humiliating you for six years, I want to say immediately at the very beginning the position of the PG of the Serbian Movement Dveri on the proposed amendments and addition of the Agricultural Land Act. So we are absolutely against the sale of our agricultural land to foreigners and when the Dvori are asked and decided, no millimeter of our country's agricultural land will be sold to any stranger. It is a matter of Serbia's food and national security, and there are no negotiations and no debates on the Kosovo and Metohija issue in the form of Serbia. What's the problem here is that you're actually just facing deadlines and dictatorships from Brussels, or previously concluded agreements with the EU, which you now need to meet as policy continuers, Boris Tadic and DS. Mr. Minister, as much as you distract the public of your stories that you are here protecting something from someone, you are actually just continuing the paved path of Serbia's entry into the EU at all costs. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU is anti-constitutional, because it was concluded in such a way as to deny Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia and when it must be suspended, annulled and put out of force. You could have done it in six years, but as the last Eurounias in Europe, as the last believers of the failed idea of the EU, you will put everything at risk because of Serbia's devastating path to the EU. You will, of course, adapt all our laws to the dictatorships and demands of European, Brussels commissioners from the Brussels Central Committee. You will, of course, jump into a well, if the EU tells you, and these are the changes and additions of the Agricultural Land Act, are jumping into a well, selling our agricultural land to foreigners. Did you have that limited for a while now? We can discuss that. You've approved it, you've accepted that our country is selling to foreigners, you're a continuation of DS policy. SNS and DS policies on European integration do not differ at all. You're saying someone misnegotiated the Stabilisation and Association Agreement? Why didn't you fix it with some new negotiations? There are no negotiations with the EU. So you can't ask anything for the benefit of this people and the state of the EU, but you have to fulfill everything that someone signed before or what they're asking you to do now. Then how do you protect our national and state interests? You really are, Mr. Minister, tragic in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18956	Talk to me, colleague Obradovic, not directly, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18957	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The minister was very inspiring, so I wanted to answer a few things that actually hide only the truth about this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18958	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18959	Thank you. You, of course, have confessed to everything you're doing and that's good. So, you do everything, how do you say here in accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU? Right? You're doing everything, so on orders from Brussels. In second place, it says nicely – to meet international obligations and comply with EU rules. Do you have certain international obligations? You've made a commitment, you've got to do something, you're not independent, you're not independent? We don't have the sovereignty of our country, we don't have an independent government and politics? It's nice of you to admit it, Mr. Minister, or representatives of the government. Under three, it is said -- this law addresses the issue of meeting the obligations of the Republic of Serbia taken on the basis of the SAA. So, we great advances, the great opponents of the DS, are running to meet everything that the DS signed and we have no idea that we should enter into negotiations with the EU and say, there is something here to finally be done in the Serbian interest, in this SAA. No country has entered the EU, and this law has passed before joining the EU, none. All countries that have joined the EU have delayed the possibility of selling the country to foreigners for 7+4 years. How much is that? It has been 11 years since we entered, and we have no idea when we will enter the EU, or we know more precisely that we will never enter the EU, so we approve of selling agricultural land to foreigners. This is called a violation of our national and national interests and work in the interests of Brussels and the EU. So, you admit it, you continue DS policy and thank you for publicly admitting it. You admit one more thing here in the arguments regarding this law that is even more important, which the minister explained nicely, since currently all the country in Serbia, especially in Vojvodina, and it is hundreds of thousands of hectares, holds a few tycoons, so in order to introduce some competition, you will not give the rest of the country to Serbian family owners and small and medium-sized family companies, but, of course, you will give it to foreigners. So, criticising the tycoons, you're actually bringing foreigners into competition in Serbia. That's scandalous. First, why didn't you deal with the tycoons? Why aren't the tycoons in jail, why didn't you charge them extra taxes, why didn't you take away the property they acquired illegally, which they didn't end up on a multi-year sentence, so they wouldn't own 200,000 ha in Vojvodina? So you haven't done anything since you promised to fight crime and corruption, it was all a lie. On the other hand, that excuse is very thin. Now, we will believe that strangers will be better masters of our country than tycoons. Well, they're foreign tycoons. And our tycoons will also eventually sell theirs to foreigners when they're pushed by competition against which they can't fight, as they did in the case of our banks, insurance companies, so eventually they'll sell all those companies that bought the robbery privatisations. So, you're actually here at the small door, and thank you for openly saying that in terms of what the benefits of this law are, and you say, this law opens up the possibility of creating new operators on the market, which may result in the creation of market competition on the basis of the possibility that new participants might be involved in the agricultural production process. They're very nice to these new participants. So, so far you've been protecting tycoons that didn't end up in prison, you know well how they acquired the property, you know well how they bought the companies, so with companies they got agricultural land, you know well how they robbed cooperatives and all that you know and you haven't done anything for six years. Now you're still opening up the competition by introducing foreign tycoons and foreign companies that should be buying our agricultural land, or not just as private persons, but as legal persons. That's your excuse that it's a domestic company owned by foreigners, you can hang a cat on a tail. She, yes, serves a part of her obligations here, but the basic profit is abroad and it's not our interest. Our interest is that our companies keep that profit here and that we do business in our own country. That's where we come in, of course, to the key question of what do we do with a restitution that you haven't finished? What about 400,000 ha of cooperative property, or agricultural land owned by cooperatives that have been robbed, what are we going to do, Mr. Minister, that we haven't had a public debate about this law? What are we going to do, not sell agricultural land to foreigners for a referendum? Why don't you ask the people how they feel about this issue? Here are you big Democrats, you who believe in these democratic procedures, why don't you ask the people if it's foreign land for sale, even if it's limited by 10 years? What is not a referendum in Serbia? He does not remember the last time there was a referendum on any issue, because Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic made it clear that he would lose at every referendum and never give it, because he cannot pass the referendum, nor Serbia's entry into NATO, nor Serbia's entry into the EU, nor the gay parade, nor the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. So run away from the referendum, like the devil from the cross. You mean this way, at a small door to allow foreigners to buy agricultural land in Serbia? Where you've been for six years to negotiate with your friends from the EU, so they can come out for a little while, to delay our ability to sell agricultural land to foreigners, to have little understanding of us, since we're not EU members, so when we enter the EU one day, let's see if in 11 years we will eventually sell land to foreigners or after that, as a smart country named Hungary has done, we will enter into the Constitution a ban on selling foreign lands. That's the way it's done, gentlemen of the authorities. That's what you do when you protect national and food security, that's what you do when you have your own national state interests in mind. All honor Victor Orban and Hungary, the ban on selling their lands to foreigners. Another important thing, how could you allow yourself this way to pass this law without any security of entry into the EU? Let me quote what you're saying here, this is really awesome when you're yourself admitting what you're doing. You say you are doing all of this to ensure that EU citizens are provided, be careful, you are taking care of EU citizens, all of it. When will the citizens of Serbia come to take care of them, gentlemen of the authorities? You worry about providing EU citizens with the same treatment as your citizens? Hey, same treatment for strangers as your citizens? Ludi, is that normal, where is that normal? Are we an EU member? We didn't. Why should we have the same treatment in Serbia until we are a member of the EU? Because you are the servants of the EU. That's the point I want to end up with. So, if you put one fine member at the end of these amendments and the addition of the laws of Mr. Minister and the other in power, that you have written well – this law will start to apply when Serbia enters the EU. That would make a little sense. We would also be against it, because I tell you, Dvori are with a ban on selling our country to foreigners, but that would be fair and clear -- gentlemen who blackmail us from the EU, we don't know any perspective of Serbia's entry into the EU, there's no further enlargement of the EU, and there's no way we'll ever enter the EU, and we're making laws that we adapt to EU regulations, and we're equating EU citizens with citizens of Serbia, it's people, it's completely pointless, it doesn't make any sense, it's against our national interests, it's against our economic interest, it's a violation of our sovereignty in every way. That doesn't make sense. Here, you all think together if it makes sense. We are not an EU member, who knows when we will probably never be, and we are equating EU citizens with Serbian citizens. Well, it's a scandal. And then you tell me you're some new government. What kind of new government are you? You're an extension of the Democratic Party's power, you're the same. Your policy of serving the interests of Brussels is exactly the same, you will sell both your own father and mother for Serbia's entry into the EU, and let alone amend some of the fine laws that require you to adapt the rules, with EU regulations. Well, I'm not interested in EU regulations, I'm only interested in Serbian regulations, how to take care of our citizens, how to protect our domestic economy, how to protect domestic agriculture, how to help those who are at risk today in Serbia think and care about everything. Both homosexuals and migrants and EU citizens, you are not the only one who cares about your own people. And that's the point of what Dwri is telling you here all the time. And in that sense, there were so many topics, so many random, priority things that had to be found in the amendments to the Law on Agriculture. Where is your restriction on the size of your property in Serbia, on those who are renting and on those who buy agricultural land? Where is your organic agricultural production, where are your agricultural industrial combinations, where is your agricultural machinery industry that has been destroyed, where are your cooperatives, where are you fighting droughts, cities and colds? Where, therefore, is your Serbian... ? Where's the safe place for ransom? Where's the guaranteed price before it even goes into agricultural production? Do you know, Mr. Minister, that people will not have food and cattle for cattle in the fall? Did you know that people have invested huge resources to finance this agricultural year? What are they going to live on now when it's all destroyed? When do we have a billion euros in losses only in agriculture? Where is the state to help Serbian citizens, not to care for EU citizens who want to equalise with Serbian citizens? Where do you care about tens of thousands of unemployed agricultural experts, from agricultural technicians, science doctors? Where do you care to stop an import lobby, which here imports everything that we can produce and that destroys our farm domestic production? Even in a Stabilisation Association Agreement with the EU, I have found a place and members in which we have the right to protect domestic production beyond customs protection measures. What aren't we doing? Because we can't, because you're EU servants, because you can't do anything that's in our national interest, and that's actually the point of the whole story. Finally, you will sell the PKK as the largest agricultural industrial combination in this part of Europe, which here next to Belgrade has a strategic national value, which plays a key role in the country's food security, which our strategic economic future in this area. That's the path you lead Serbia. This is actually a betrayal of Serbian national interests in the domestic economy and agriculture sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18960	I have several injuries to the Rules of Procedure. A colleague, Aleksandar Martinovic, head of the SNS Parliament Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18961	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Article 107 has been injured. I think you had to react. Here Mr. Bosko Obradovic, in the most harsh way possible, insulted both the Minister of Agriculture and the MPs of the SNS, mentioned the father, the mother, it is a custom for him. I want because of the public that Mr. Bosko Obradovic, who was probably hit in the head by fame, is not coming down from the US television "N1" and whenever you turn on that TV, you see that Bosko Obradovic is talking about all the topics that are current that day, so he probably has little media fame from the TV "N1" disrupted common sense, just to remind him of a few things. He is against the EU, but he is not against the euro. Ask Mr. Sevarlic how many tens of thousands of euros he received from Sasa Dragin, from Dusan Petrovic, through famous "old projects" to improve agricultural production in Serbia. Where's the money? Here's Mr. Sevarlic, let him say if he was financed by the Democratic Party and its agriculture ministers? Furthermore, I would like to inform Mr. Bosko Obradovic that during the time his party, i.e. the party with which he went to the elections, that Agrokor Ivica Todorovic bought "Diamant", "Frikom", slaughterhouses in Plandište, "Kikindski mlin", "Mivelu", "New style" from Tristenik, "Golden trail" from Leskovec, "Our cement" bought four companies during their government, all their authorities, the Dosmanli authorities, "Jelen d.o.o.o.", "Pallet", "Stralovo" and "Opeka", "Atlantik" group became the owner of "Soko Sturka", "Granda", "Grand of Proma", "Palanic acid". Croatian dairy “Laura” bought “Somboled” from Sombora...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18962	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18963	Here, I'm done. “Vindija” bought Lajkovac, a cattle food factory “Unip” from Valjevo and eight “Agroziva” farms in Plandište, investors from Croatia, here is another sentence, Serbian enterprises have been sold, Radiator Zrenjanin, “Postišje” Kanjiža, “Inteks” from Mladenova, “Min Holding” from Svrljiga, a charter factory called Beograd, a brick... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18964	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18965	Mr Marinkovic, I am advertising Article 106 that the speaker can only talk about the agenda we are discussing today, which the previous speaker has injured, i.e. My colleague Obradović and I am advertising Article 108, which you have just injured, you interrupt every MP of the opposition, you take away the word, you do not allow us to finish the thought, and we have seen that he has now spoken 25 seconds longer than is allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18966	I'll allow you to do the same. Of course, I was just waiting for the thought to end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18967	So, please don't interrupt me in 32 seconds, because you let your previous colleague speak 25 seconds more than is allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18968	Are you trying to tell me what is involved in the breach of the Rules of Procedure and which member or are you going to explain to me what I allowed or did I not allow my colleague, Martinovic? Here, use your time in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18969	I don't know if you hear right, I'm not an expert on it, it's a theme, Dr. Milisavljevic can look at it. I explained this in the beginning, that he hurt his colleague Obradovic in 106. Everyone, because you didn't interrupt him and you hurt a member of 108, and I explained why you hurt Article 108. I don't want to deal with previous speakers. We also see that the SNS, that the Two, that the problem is only DS, means that we are on a good path and that we will remove the SNS, but we will not allow these to take power in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18970	The word is Marija Janjušević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18971	I thank the chairman. First of all, you hurt attitude 27. You're obliged to hold order at this session. The Rules of Procedure can't serve for replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18972	The line at the session is 108th of a colleague. Please take a closer look at the Rules of Procedure. Call another member.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18973	I will quote to you, if it is necessary in Article 107(2), where no MP can be offended by an offensive expression about someone else. You could hear common sense in here. I don't think that any member of the SNS is really invited to discuss common sense in Serbia, but I have to go back to Article 27, because you're making sure that this session goes well. I pray that no longer happens, that you allow the breach of the Rules of Procedure to be misused as a replica. Especially what you've allowed for two minutes and 20 seconds, as you said yourself. This way we really won't be able to do it today, because here we're talking about key things, about betraying the state, about handing over agricultural land.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18974	Please don't talk about it now, thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. Thank you very much. As far as I can tell, no one was bothered on the left when it came to servants, sales, treason, high treason, it didn't bother anyone, and there was no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. When someone comes out of position, that's the problem, I see that everyone really has the same treatment and that they have the right to say what they want and what they think about the course of this session. Let's move on. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic, to answer. I'm sorry, Alexandra Jerkov. Just pick up the Rules of Procedure. I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18975	I was looking for a word, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18976	I'm sorry, it's Alexander Jerkov's word. Just pick up the Rules of Procedure, I didn't see.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18977	In our Rules of Procedure, among other things, it doesn't say that you should wave papers when you answer, but you can see that someone's registered, so you ask him on what basis he answered. I'd like to draw your attention to article 103. The Rules of Procedure and I would ask you if it seems to you that Mr. Martinovic has adapted his statement of injury to Rule 103, by which he should have told which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured, to explain what the injury consists of and to place his exposure within two minutes, as far as it is intended. I don't know if Mr. Martinovic said which member was injured, I don't think he did, I can't argue. In any case, he did not explain this injury to a single word, and, as his colleagues had already said, he spoke for more than two minutes. So, then I would ask you if you knew, Mr Marinklic, that it is your obligation for an MP who behaves in such a way when he abuses the right to point out to you the violation of the Rules of Procedure, to warn him, to give him the warning measure and to take away his MP group for two minutes or the time he used to abuse the Rules of Procedure? So, first, tell me if you know that such provisions exist in the Rules of Procedure, do you think you should have used them, why not, if you feel that you do not, or do you have any intention, since the President has also introduced a new institute that can be subsequently established, so that the measures of reminders can be made and, in general, does it seem to you that Mr Martinovic has explained to you exactly what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is about, or does it seem to you that there have been any abuses?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18978	Thank you very much. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? I understood him very well, completely, his explanation, so he can do it again if he wants to call again. The word has Minister Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18979	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like, in the context of all that was said earlier, to give an answer to the stories of dizziness, traitors and other things. There's one more thing that might have been a warning, but I can't get into it, I'm a guest here who, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, came to explain the amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land. They were referring to the sale of my father, mother, or I don't know what my childhood meant. I don't know what to tell you without going down to the level of conversation someone wants to pass on. My father's been dead for 30 years, so I haven't experienced this in any way that I could say any word, so whatever I'm saying, these are all common-known models of behavior that we've already seen by individuals not only in the Assembly, but also outside the Assembly and in the old building of the National Assembly. The story of the SAA is an interesting topic, whether or not we used the tools provided by the SAA. Of course he did, but someone slept through the summer or not to say he was somewhere else, which is legitimate. During July, we used our SAA rights to regulate, protect Serbia from one EU member who has set out to apply to Serbia measures that were not in line with European practice. You can't tell me that we don't apply those clauses that contribute to Serbia. If we have shown a position anywhere that Serbia is defending itself and respecting Serbia, it was in that case. You saw how it ended. I don't want to comment on it. We were just guarding Serbia's interests, just as we are now guarding Serbia's interests, just as we are with this 10-year time period delaying sales. He talks about what the people think, I think it's been said at least a few times in the last two, three years. When someone takes the election 30 times, or 40 times as much as someone else, I think they say enough about what the people think about it and what the people think is given in the elections, not what individuals think of us. The story of farmers' associations that weren't involved in this absolutely doesn't stand. Since I've been a minister for a year, I've been talking to different associations of farmers who are criticizing and supporting me. Everyone has the same attitude about this. I'm also talking to those who have problems at this point with agricultural production, because it's my job. The story of crime and corruption? If anyone went into charge, it's been since 2012. The only thing I've heard here is one personal judgment about what someone thinks, which is completely legitimate. We are implementing that policy for which we have received support from Serbian citizens, protecting Serbia's interests. International agreements signed and agreed by the Serbian Parliament must be respected. Well, we're not the destroyers who are going to come in and take down any of the things at any time. Let's build. Let's also build irrigation systems and anything that can help Serbian agriculture, and also protect ourselves in this way with amendments to the Agricultural Land Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18980	Replica, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18981	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, I see you're surprised, Mr. Minister, what you've heard. You've heard a bunch of nonsense, the same ones we listen to here in every session, and by the one who apparently survives a certain crisis because he hasn't caused a replica in a few weeks, so he had to do it today. I wanted to take the opportunity to give a few congratulations to that face. Otherwise, if you're wondering who, you know who. It's a word from an on-call doss elbow in this assembly right here. So, a couple of cards. First, I would like to congratulate you on how he managed to make everything so inspired today, mentioning his father and mother, mentioning one former president of the state, and the famous model and party of the yellow company. Congratulations because he led us on the right path, mentioning his political father and his political mother, the ones who made him political and created him. He reminded us all together today, both of us and the people who are watching this, that the moment he decided to publicly hug and kiss with them, you remember, in those solemn white shirts, when he hugged them so well, he embraced all their good results and all those things that they were proud of, among other things and so negotiated in 2008 and, among other things, by the tycoons that they were talking about, among other things, their relationship with Kosovo and Metohija, but also the sovereignty of this country in any sense. Today he stands with them side by side again, with the former president, and the famous model and party of the yellow company. Today he is with them against this bill. Against what, to understand Serbian citizens? Against the measures that serve to protect the interests of the citizens of this country. As they have always been on the side of the damage of this country and this people, so today they are all together, without any difference whatsoever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18982	The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18983	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, these amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land should in some way correct, i.e. to mitigate the effects of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Therefore, it is also the most important member to prescribe conditions for the transport of agricultural land in the private property of EU citizens and relate to persons, to agricultural land and to how much one can acquire agricultural land in private property. In the past, we weren't in the ideal situation. We simply didn't have this period of transition that had some other countries that were seeking the EU and we couldn't, or it was difficult to change the SAA for the simple reason that all Member States would have to vote with confirmation. We need to pass this law for two reasons. First, that way we will continue to fulfil our international obligation. Secondly, we'll make it impossible to create chaos on the agricultural land market. These changes in the rules will make it difficult for foreign citizens to acquire ownership of our fields. I will repeat that they have to be kept for ten years on the territory of local self-government in which they want to buy land and have to process land for three years and own machinery and equipment for agricultural production and have registered agricultural land. This practice is not common and has also been applied in other countries that have joined and have been on the road to the EU. We will practically not sell the country to foreigners until 2027, and in this way, we have received additional time to respond to the new challenges that address the problem in the agricultural sector and to align it with the way it works in EU countries. You can also hear criticism that this law does not regulate the issue of legal persons. The constitution makes this clear. If the legal person wants to become the owner of the land, he'll have to sign into our register. I also always come from the fact that legal entities, i.e. companies, are there to gain profits and that foreign investments should not always be watched skeptically, because they can bring new technologies and can positively affect the competitiveness of domestic businesses. In this way, by adopting these amendments and supplementing the law, we will condition the natural persons to their residence, and legal persons by enrolling in our register. As I have already said, it is not unusual for examples to prevent total liberalisation of trade in land, and I will list several examples from countries in Central Eastern Europe that have been going the same way this time as we have now. We have, however, entered the liberalisation phase earlier, when we talk about agricultural land and other countries have introduced by restrictive measures the restriction that foreign citizens are buying agricultural land to protect domestic farmers. They mainly sought and were given the opportunity to prohibit the purchase of agricultural land during a period of seven years. For example, Hungary was the most radical here. It, as already mentioned, banned the Constitution from foreign citizens buying agricultural land. It's pretty strict conditions set by Poland. When they joined the EU, they managed to extend the sale of agricultural land to foreign persons for 12 years, and that period expired several months ago. Then they passed a law favoring domestic land. In Poland, private family companies, and I must point out, participate with 88% in the total use of agricultural land. The price of agricultural land has been growing steadily since they joined the EU. The Baltic countries -- Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia too, also sought and were given the opportunity to retain their rules regarding agricultural land sales, which were valid before EU accession. They explained their request by the need to protect the domestic socio-economic agricultural structure from any shock that would arise as a result of the price difference in agricultural land and income compared to the old EU members. I have cited these examples to show that each country has tried to find the best model in accordance with its own internal opportunities and according to some of its specific features. We will receive an additional period of 10 years by this law. In one part, we were even more restrictive than others, because we provided for one condition that a natural person must have a residence right in that local self-government where he wants to buy agricultural land. We need to carefully analyze and monitor the developments of other countries, learn from their mistakes, and, regardless of their specificities, we can learn lessons and avoid problems in some situations where we are going to find ourselves, which are similar or identical. The challenges we face have been faced by almost all the countries that have joined the EU. These were mainly difficulties such as outdated machinery, irrigation problems, low yields and insufficient subsidies. Other countries, in fact, looked like Serbia in terms of economic structure and ownership. Thus, when they joined the EU, one of their underdeveloped agricultural sectors had to deal with developed old European economies, where farmers are well-organised and where they have strong institutions that support them and help them financially. In addition, due to the problem of unresolved ownership structure, unfinished privatisation process and depreciated possessions, it was necessary to extend the ban on buying land to foreign persons. It's a similar situation with us. We have to do everything we can to get our farmers on their feet as soon as possible and to become competitive on the market. We must not forget that, as in most Central Eastern European countries, the central-plan economy has been in place for many years, where the state also participated as a landowner. We also need to focus on some shortcomings, such as not completing the process of restitution or undefined ownership structure and land registers, which may make it difficult to build up properties. This can cause low yields and poor efficiency. This business branch will undoubtedly undergo significant transformations in the coming period, simply because there is a difference between the agricultural sector in Serbia and the EU. We need a better efficiency and better organisation of agricultural holdings. From the experience of other countries, we can see that there has been a rise in the prices of arable land, a decline in employment in this branch and a decrease in the share of agriculture in GDP. Now we get more room for maneuvering with these changes, and we need to focus on measures that will mitigate these effects. In addition to quality legal standards, it is necessary to form strong institutions that will support our farmers in order to be as competitive as possible on the European market. According to some data, employees in agriculture participate with us with more than 20% and that is above the EU average. We can prepare a set of measures in the next period, I'm sure, so that this percentage doesn't drop drastically and we wouldn't repeat the experience of other countries. We should look at the best examples, the best-ordered countries that agricultural land see as a limited natural good, such as Germany, which uses more than half of its area for agricultural purposes, 94% of farms are their own businesses, family businesses, which are the largest agricultural producers in this country. The provisions of this law that we are talking about today are not applicable in the case of the return of property, which is good, of course, that are carried out in accordance with the laws governing the return of the seized property to former owners. We have this restitution process in progress, and it would be good if it ended as quickly and successfully as possible. We need to be aware of the importance of agriculture, the importance of food production, especially during climate change. Since the economic crisis of 2008, the world has had the right to race for the purchase of agricultural land. That's why I think these amendments to the law, which will be delayed for some period of 10 years, are good. It is important for the state to remain consistent and not allow fertile fields to turn into building land, to recognize the chance to develop this economic branch, to recognize new opportunities, as most of our producers increasingly recognize the chance of organic production. We must not allow large landowners to run over small producers in the future. According to the 2012 census, and you certainly have more recent data, 628 thousand family agricultural holdings were in Serbia. The average area they were working was about 4.5 hectares, and the most numerous were those that handle about two hectares. It is the small holdings in the total pool that should be Serbia's agrarian force and should thus be positioned on the EU market. Agriculture is one of the most important business branches in Serbia, which is also witnessed by the total number of employees and participation in GDP. It is therefore very important that, regardless of all the transformations ahead and all the problems we will face, this sector becomes competitive in the future, that agricultural production be a comparative advantage for Serbia compared to other EU member states. To conclude, MPs of the SDPS will support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18984	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18985	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the proposal to amend and supplement the Agricultural Land Act is just another illustration of the work of this government and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, both according to the way decisions are made, at the last minute, without consulting, in this case with the European Commission, and in terms of content, where unnecessary restrictive provisions are introduced, which are actually demagogy and the desire to compensate for some government failures, especially on the international agenda. Among the main issues is the credibility of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the sincerity of its intentions when it comes to European integration which, to remind you again, are marked as a strategic goal at the very beginning of the exposé at the time of the mandate, and now Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. The question of honesty and the government's intention is, above all, due to the way these amendments and additions are adopted. In fact, although according to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which has become part of the domestic legal system, there was a obligation to comply with EU rules gradually within four years, this call for harmonisation comes at the last moment when European institutions are on the board and without prior consultations with the European Commission. The fact that consultations were not carried out is not the best testimony of points 7 and 8 of the declaration of conformity of the Amendments Proposal and the addition of this Law to the EU rules that we received from the Serbian Government. Namely, the proposal submitted by the government, signed by the prime minister, contains negative answers to the following two questions. Is the regulation translated into some official EU language? As well as whether it has been co-operated with the EU, or whether EU consultants have taken part in making the rules and given an opinion on compliance? Clearly, without a positive answer to these two questions, there could be no consultation. When these answers come from the government itself, the question arises as to who is telling the truth, Prime Minister Brnabic, who signed this bill, which was addressed to the Assembly or Minister Nedimovic, who at least claimed that consultations were made with the European Commission, in the media, while today it has made this position a little less relaxed and has only called for a solution in the laws on agricultural land of some countries already in the EU, although some of these countries are in conflict with the EU, so I don't know whether it should be called for these examples. In addition to the way this regulation is adopted, credibility, honesty, the intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to question the very restrictive provisions contained in the Bill's amendment and supplementation. Before considering these provisions, I'd like to remind you that he is a member of 85. The Constitution stipulates that foreign natural and legal persons may acquire property rights on immovable property under conditions prescribed by law or international contract. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, between the parties, is prescribed to bring the regulations of the Republic of Serbia into line with EU rules and set up a free trade zone, which implies the possibility of selling agricultural land to foreigners under the same conditions as domestic persons, starting on 1 September of this year, which is why we are sitting today. Certainly the most restrictive provision that is not in line with the equalisation of EU citizens' status with domestic citizens is one that requires EU citizens not only to live for 10 years in Serbia, but to live in a local self-government where they want to buy land and, on top of that, three years to process this land. At the same time, if we bear in mind that there is practically no obligation for citizens of Serbia to process agricultural land, or there is no additional tax or penalty for a land that is burned, then this way, the EU citizens are certainly not equal with the citizens of Serbia, whenever they are. These provisions continue even from the provisions of one of the most restrictive laws in this area in EU countries adopted last year by the Polish Assembly – the Law on the suspension and sale of state property by the State Agricultural Agency. Even so restrictive, this law allows for the purchase of foreigners if they are of Polish origin or married to a citizen of this country, with an additional condition that they live in Poland for at least two years. In view of the fact that foreign citizens can buy agricultural land in their legal capacity, a logical conclusion is that such restrictive provisions are only part of the demagogue of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and another expression of false patriotism in order to draw attention from real life problems. Let's say, like the fact that Serbia is naturally growing on the basis of data from the World Bank, often referred to by this government, the last country of 13 Central and Southeast European countries is naturally growing. As an example, only Albania, which we often treat with underestimation, which had a 4% growth, while Serbia's economy, apart from unrecorded historical success, had a growth of negligible 1.3%. It seems we have an attempt to call some kind of patriotic compensation for the concessions or failures of this government, both internally and externally. The very fact that Serbia is the only country in the EU accession process that has committed itself with the SAA to selling the country to foreigners before gaining membership in the EU, without a requirement for a transitional period, answers the question whether some type of protection, especially during the transitional period, is needed. Countries that joined the EU over the past 13 years had different visions and dynamics of liberalisation of agricultural land sales, with all countries having the transition period at a more restrictive end of Poland and Hungary, and in the second more liberal Slovenia and Romania, but most importantly. With this, it is not the need for protection in this area, but the way it is done. When considering the developments of this issue, it should be borne in mind that, before EU accession, those countries faced a similar situation in the area of agriculture, low yields, outdated technology, very limited subsidies, and that, at this point, they are largely ahead of our country, thanks to EU membership. Agricultural land is one of the most important resources of each country, no doubt, which contains three basic dimensions. It contains an economic dimension. That's income security. Then, security security of food security and environmental, conservation of the environment. Agriculture has special significance for our country, both due to high stakes in the gross social product, 16.5% were last year, and because of the fact that this is one of the rare industries that records the external trade surplus. Moreover, the importance of agriculture, forestry and fisheries for our economy, the testimony and participation of the contingent of employees in the total number of employees in this branch, which is close to 20%. By comparison, in EU countries this percentage is only slightly above 4%. Speaking of a high percentage of the labour force employed in agriculture, liberalisation of agricultural land, a significant percentage of employees would lose their jobs in this sector or be employed in other activities, as was the case in other countries that have become EU members, and given the situation in which our economy is located, such a scenario would likely cause negative consequences. When we talk about the desired effects of liberalising the agricultural land market, they should be observed through the prism of achieving two or three basic objectives. One is an increase in productivity, the other is an increase in agricultural exports, and the third, which should contribute to this and to the accumulation of parcels through the increase in used agricultural land and agricultural land. To a significant extent, as a result of the achievement of the previous three objectives, two more should be achieved, which are the increase in agricultural land prices and the increase and affordability of agricultural land for our citizens. Currently, for many EU citizens, it is much more affordable to reach our country by 10 times as much as it is for our citizens. The question arises whether analyses have been carried out on these issues on the basis of which appropriate decisions could be made on the model of liberalisation. At the same time, one of the main reasons against the uninterrupted and unlimited sale of agricultural land to foreigners is legal uncertainty. Namely, due to unregulated property-legal relations and not yet fully implemented rules governing the records of state and social agricultural land, the return of land in the process of restitution, the return of mornings and pastures to villages, as well as the harmonisation of data from the register that keeps records of immovableity with constitutional categories of property, full liberalisation could lead to negative consequences, i.e. to produce a number of court disputes that could cost the state, or citizens of Serbia. In order to ensure legal certainty, it is necessary to coordinate the forms of property entered in the immovable catalogue keeping records of immovableities and data of owners with the Constitution. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia knows three forms of property - private, public and cooperative, and the catastran, in addition, knows other mixed and other forms of property, which is contrary to the Constitution. This is why it is not true that the implementation of this law does not require funds in the budget, because it is precisely for the setting up of this area, i.e. catastras, that is, funds are needed. In the end, I'd like to say a few words about the likely consequences of adopting a law like this. Regardless of the way and time this law is adopted, it will certainly come on the agenda of the European Commission of EU Member States and may reflect Chapter 4 relating to freedom of movement of capital. One of the four freedoms on which the functioning of the EU internal market is based. Simplified, two scenarios are possible. It is pessimistic for the adoption of such a law to delay the opening of Chapter 4 until disputed provisions are removed. Optimistic, which I am getting closer to, that the European Commission considers that regardless of the restrictive nature of the provisions and does not comply with the legal provisions of the EU, progress has been made by regulating this area legally, but by closing the chapters of the amendments. Regardless of what scenario will be achieved, the credibility of the government will be at stake, i.e. the sincerity of its intentions in achieving the strategic goal of joining the EU, as one of the three strategic objectives in the area of agriculture, also declared in the exposé of Prime Minister Brnabic, who allegedly has a foothold in the previous most transparent, comprehensive, most accurate, etc. An exposé, which is a alignment with the EU's common agrarian policy. In any case, I would not be surprised that this assembly of parliament in the not-so-far future is reconsidering the amendments and additions of this law when we may have to give up some solutions that we could only retain that we have done the right thing now. In view of the above-mentioned strategic objective of EU entry, the question is whether it is desirable that the example in solving the problem of agricultural land purchase is already mentioned in the EU countries currently in conflict with Brussels? This attitude towards European institutions is the least incorrect, especially given that we asked them yesterday, you mentioned it to the ministers, asked and received the assistance of the European Commission to remove the trade measures that have damaged our economy when it violated the trade agreement that we have with the EU, not only in this case, but also two years ago, when, according to the foreign minister, Croatia announced a trade war on Serbia. To conclude, it is the impression that these amendments and additions to the Law are being passed not for the purposes of meeting, but for failing to fulfil international obligations, or for wanting to cover up somewhat the government's failures on the domestic and international agenda, and will likely only further disrupt relations with the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18986	Thank you. The word is by MP Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18987	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we now have two completely different attitudes in view, some say we are traitors, others say we are excessively restrictive. When, of course, parliament is the essence of democracy, but there is one other thing. I'm glad you said this, because this shows how restrictive we were and wanted to protect Serbia's interests. Your concern about what the European Commission is going to say don't make you so excited and irritated for one simple reason, we are responsible people, we would never put Serbia in a position to cause any other problem for this. Also, taking into account the common European agricultural policy, one of the basic tools that does not exist in the EU is in fact the budget that is intended for agriculture. I'll agree with you that this particular intensity was one of every country's leading driving forces to enter, to become a part of it, with the market plus everything available. During the pre-accession period, a number of countries had the opportunity to use pre-accession funds in agriculture, they were called SAPARD funds, later IPARD, and that was another topic everyone was running from, they didn't want to solve. This is how I inform the MPs, you who started this topic, our first stage of external audit is over and we've removed all the blocking factors. So, after many years, we will have the opportunity to put EU pre-accession funds of 175m euros, plus 50m euros in our participation, at the end of November or early December, at 225m at our disposal. It's also a fact that in one year, we're singled out that much money, but it's also a fact that we have to get used to doing things by the procedures provided for by this IPARD tool. You mentioned earlier, about GDP growth and the complete situation, the IMF, the World Bank characterised Serbia in the previous year as someone who recorded more than a successful growth compared to what they predicted. It's a fact, it can't be disproved. We have a very big fight to be not only exporters of cheap, but quality raw materials, but to focus on the processing industry and the opening of new markets, so that our goods are more expensively sold from Serbia. This is the goal of which the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Serbia goes and, after your claims, I am absolutely sure that by comparing us with Poland, that we are even more restrictive, that we have protected Serbia's interests in a maximum way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18988	The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18989	Thank you. Dear Minister, I am delighted with your wish to protect Serbia's interests, as you said, and especially one of the most important resources: agricultural land. Agricultural land is and will be something which is a strategically important business entity for every country and, if you will, political. That is why I am surprised when we are talking today about this law that had to come, because we have this obligation or, under the circumstances, a commitment from the accession treaty, and today we are focusing and we are doing so much drama about how we have prevented several individuals from the EU who are paori from coming and buying agricultural land, primarily in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and only a month earlier, we, with one government apparition, have assigned 2.5 thousand hectares to a company called "Tenis" without bidding, in lease, not in possession. We've had another problem with Al Ravafed, which has been running through us here for five years. About a year ago, when then Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic sat here somewhere in your place or behind you, when he offered to go see this "Al Ravafed" in Backo Palanko. I asked him several times to do so and to see this successful transfumation of Karajordjev and 10,000 hectares and 10 million euros from the Development Fund. What happened here, other than losing a company we can't find anywhere, except at the door glued to a former CK. To go back to this law, state land is a very important segment and the question is, let's simply clarify this dramaturgy about this law to citizens and viewers who are watching this debate. We, by this law, which we are discussing about this law, are advocating the following problem – that three couples Hans, Joseph and Pilar from France, Belgium and Germany will leave organised agrarian economic societies and over 10,000 minimum income subsidies by land and already the first in Buljuci to pursue this border in order to get a hard time waiting for a country here in the Republic of Serbia. You're a serious man and you know that's not gonna happen. If they wanted to do it, they would have done it in the last 15 years. Thus, the three mentioned foreigners who deal with agriculture will come here, open up a company and take thousands and thousands of hectares of land to rent or own when they establish a domestic company, such as "Tenis" or "Al Ravafed" or a foreign company represented by Todorovic, and it is not disputed. We now have a drama about whether or not a pair will come and have a chance to buy land, unless we have a political problem, and the political problem is seen as someone consciously, and you haven't talked about it, assigns funds to the citizens of your country to buy land for some political reasons. What's the subject is land policy. In the procedure, you have two draft laws, or one bill with two proposals from the DS, where we want to point out the problem of land. We were terrible against the fact that 30% of the state land is being delocated from the funds that are being auctioned because we believe that our primary agricultural producers are the only competitive economic operator in this country and they have shown that to you and us hundreds of times so far. You just said that our main goal is the processing industry. I couldn't agree more. Nikola Kmezic, president of the Vojvodina Executive Council until 1984, said then a sentence that was terribly important for the development of a part of the Republic. He said – if we continue to deal with primary production, we do not invest in other activities, especially in the processing industry, education and oil industry, Vojvodina will be the most developed region in the then Yugoslavia. The man made an action plan and in 1983 we had then gross national income which is dramatically greater than both Croatia and Slovenia. You want it and you support it. We supported you around the Agriculture Act somewhere in November last year because you've been anticipating the IPARD in it. We are not an anti-European party, we are not people who do not believe in European integration and improvement and other money that we need to share with our farmers, but on the other hand, you believe in completely wrong things. You believe, the State Agricultural Land Act, when you subtract 30% of the country's basic means of working, that this will increase the competitiveness of the processing industry, that's wrong. I was expecting today, because somewhere in February, the contest ended in March, that you would give us a report on what happened to that project. Nothing significant has happened, because I think the concept is completely wrong. If you want to encourage the processing industry, you do it by liberalizing the market, removing the tycoons and all that we have around the processing industry. We have a semi-closed processing market, we have a fully liberalized primary agricultural market, you've explained to the raspberries that you can't influence the price, you explain it to the producers of wheat, corn, etc., which is absolutely correct. On the other hand, you have a semi-closed processing market, we have a criminalization of the past five years of this government, we have a sunflower abduction during the term of Goran Knezevic, you have a classic monopolies production, when oilers degrade peasants and purchases for 24 dinars, instead of allowing peasants to sell for 40 dinars and take out their products. Did this happen in the term of office of the government in which he was Prime Minister Alexander Vukic? Yes, it is. We keep talking about how we want good agriculture, how we want to do great things, how we want to give capital investment, and nothing happens, except that we've reduced the basic means of working agricultural land as a resource to the paors that are the only competitors. Let us not measure ourselves with Poland, Ukraine, Hungary, etc. Let me tell you one thing, during the Socialist Yugoslavia 74% of the land was in private hands, the rest was in cooperatives and in combinations. We have the continuity of agricultural producers, unlike those countries where you didn't have owners and individual agricultural producers. It's a dramatic difference, a cultural difference. Ukraine today as the greatest resource has its own land, but there is no steam. Since the revolution, from Tsar Russia, to this day they've had no steam. They had a feudal system, so they went into communism and people didn't have pairs, there's no one to process that land. We've been listening for days to see this drought bring down our GDP. It will, but it's not normal. It's not normal to wait in the 21st century if it's going to rain and whether we're going to have 7.5 tons of corn, or if we're going to have 3 tons, as the average this year is going to be, average. Don't wave your head, we'll measure it. Last year we had a million hectares of 7.5 tonnes of the average contribution that the Bureau of Statistics officially made, and this year it will be dramatically smaller. (Vojislav Seselj: How much? We'll see about that when it comes down, but it's going to be dramatically smaller, not less than 50%. What's crazy is looking into the sky. It is abnormal to talk since 2013, and here with Minister Vujovic we discussed when we extended the loans, when we discussed new borrowing, about the famous loan that Aleksandar Vučić and Mladjan Dinkic signed with the Arabs. Until you came, nothing happened. Well, should we wait for the ministers to come and go, pay intercal interest and do nothing for four full years? The loan expires now in November 2017. Now we're going to have the effects of that, but the bottom line is we have to look into each other's eyes. You weren't on the board, and you have this habit of rarely coming to the Committee. The bottom line is that we need to talk about serious problems if we want this to really be the potential of this country's development. If there's something potential that one year brings to you something 100, next year 30, and you don't know how much they're going to bring, it's not your development potential. Because you don't know how that peasant will survive and you don't know if this country has anything to export or nothing to export. The bottom line is it's quite clear that you have to finally deal with and team up with the profession, say what the problems are, give up that scenic law on state agricultural land, where you've located 30% and return that opportunity to the paorians to bid it. In the end, one of the arguments for amending the law which was also a dramatically lower charge and crime, under the terms of allegations, leases and the amount of money that came to the ministry. You have today, at the end of the third quarter, raised 25% of the total funds since last year and before last year of the Agricultural Land Act. How much on today's day have you collected funds from agricultural land? Do you know why you dropped him? Because you have incompetent presidents of municipalities who can't implement the terms provided for by the Agricultural Procedure Act to bid and because you've figured out a piece of land from there, without serious effects. Who says 300 euros here in Banata that you gave Tennessee is an economic price? Who says that? The average price you calculated? Well, who says? Put on a bid and let Tennis win. Why do you believe in “Tenis ” more than any other Banatian pair? I support "Tenis" in the processing industry, but I do not support "Tenis" in primary production. To me it is the same pair from Austria and Germany or this one here compared to "Tenis", Miskovic or any other one, Kostic. We have a divergence about it. You say we have a development chance, and we missed a year. You're a serious man, use a year. You have corruption at the Ministry, I told you that last time. You've got serious corruption at the Ministry, and that's what we've been complaining about. That's what the processors are complaining about. You have political interference in the work of some very important parts of the Ministry of Agriculture, above all in the wind. That's your problem, and those are the things that can be solved. Don't let people complain about having a problem with inspections that are entirely within your jurisdiction. It's just that we have hearing about European integration, but we don't have the hearing that dramaturgy is real and that it gets clouded and dusted, and on the other hand we have a serious problem. Today we're talking about whether a stranger will buy a few dozen acres of land. If you had liberalised 100%, 10 or 100 people would have appeared annually, and those of the mixed marriages of Romanian-Hungarian, Vojvodjan, etc. We make dramaturgy about it, and on the other hand in five minutes we give tens of thousands of hectares of the country "to a foreign investor". He's not a foreign investor, it's a resource. Did you give someone for free land in Mitrovica when you brought an investor? You never gave, you sold as a municipality. What do we do now at non-economic prices? Who's Rawafed, that's what we're interested in? Is it Andrei or isn't it Andrei? I wish it hadn't, but I'd like you to answer that question. The important thing is, 10,000 hectares and a state entity, or the Army of the Republic of Serbia is there. Reducing corruption is a serious matter. There's probably a problem with microtoxins in front of us. We have a corn situation disaster and we're going to have microtoxin migration from the roots of the plant. If the third generation of flames shows up, we'll get into that problem. Then it will be a question like that, that then the Deputy Prime Minister says – Gorane, you're right, and when we open the slave issue, he says – what do we do, and we say – open the stock reserves, replace the food supply, then we become public one number one, because he realizes that the stock reserves have been robbed. So we know what we have in the stock reserves today. Are we going to know how much and what's in the stock reserves? Don't let our mice eat everything and all kinds of MPs, members of political parties, etc. We need to know what we're gonna do if that problem happens. For the end, in this part, you had a crisis with contaminated eggs from the Netherlands. Please, I'm telling you again, you're a serious man, not Goran Knezevic. All you had to do was take a live egg and swallow it. It can't. It won't convince us. So you're telling us how much analysis you've done and you show and you tell us who's in control of it, not that you're saying we haven't got it all, and the next day it shows up in Romania. It cannot have appeared in Romania without being in Serbia. That's because we don't have a system of security, and that's your problem, and the wind that's critical, corrupt and catastrophic, I can write a novel about it. You have to convince us that it didn't end up on the Serbian market, and you didn't convince us. Goran Knezevic persuaded by drinking milk and paying for the campaign. I think this law, as it is, is designed to collect political points, and it doesn't essentially change anything. Once again, it prevents the EU steam from being a pair in Vojvodina, no one will do it in Serbia, but it does not prevent the President of the State or Prime Minister from being discreetly entitled to land on some basis by some foreign company that we don't know whose it is or who it is. That's my land problem. The law on state agricultural land is our problem with you and there is a dose of non-transparentity and corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18990	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18991	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, I've seen a few things from previous exposure, above all the first contradiction. For one simple reason it is said that the political issue is agricultural land, and then after talking about, I will now quote to Hans, Joseph and Pierre. If it's an important political issue, then there's no room for details. It is therefore important to show the position of the Republic of Serbia in terms of selling the country to EU citizens. That's how it's expressed. Another thing, the food industry issue. Unfortunately, the food industry is something we don't have at this point, in that capacity we're supposed to have. The fact is that in the 1970s, a step with the food industry was made in the port areas of large storage facilities in order to make it easier for the goods to be transported to the point where they were sold. But I'm going to ask one question, when did they stop having giant food? Is privatisation really something that ended the existence and liberalisation in 2000 in one day, it seems to me at the end of 2000 or early in 2001, I can no longer remember, when the vice president of the federal government, I think that October month is at stake, I no longer remember in 2000, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Federal Government Labus at that time declared trade liberalisation and when there was a mass termination of the work of the food industry. What we need right now is investment. Investment depends on three types of resources. First, globally, the first is whether you have enough of your own money to invest. Secondly, do you have the capacity to charge yourself to invest thirdly, whether you have an inflow of capital from abroad that could lead to investment development. That's what we need, and I insist on it all the time. The story of "Tenis" and Al Rawafed, I honestly see it as a substitute for classical thesis, not to say that we mix grandmothers and frogs there. The right to property and the right to lease can't be put in the same frame, you'll agree to that. "Tenis", there is a Agricultural Land Act adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I think, at the end of 2015. It gives the right to lease land for up to 30 years on the basis of investments. The procedure to implement the whole procedure was laid down by the government of the Republic of Serbia. The regulation provides for a public call. Story, I've been listening here for the past year about the intransparentity of this procedure, about direct contracts, not contracts. And my job is to listen, but it's also my job to defend what's true and true. The public transparent procedure under which he could apply each one was conducted in January and February. Based on this call, 219 different subjects have applied. Based on that, and you asked me to answer those questions, 219 companies at this point are fairly restrictive for one simple reason because agricultural land is one resource to be taken care of, once you're given then you don't have to regret it. Ten projects have been approved so far. Of the ten projects, 51m euros in investment, for the time being, the rest, and we are talking about commission decisions, it remains for units of local self-government to adopt this. Total investment if it turned into hectares as much as it was given, 9,400 euros per ha. You know how important that is. As far as Al Rawafed is concerned, let's get this story out of here sometime. I think we've been listening to each other in the media and here in the Assembly about how this investment is not good, how bad it is for Serbia, how nothing has been solved. Here, I'm ready to go on my way to Verbas, and then Coola, so let's go through and see what the real result is. The result is this. These aren't pictures of these realised investments. Now I'll tell you where this is. ‘Young fighter’ 461 ha under the irrigation system, ‘Agrobaca’ 205 completed ha under irrigation, ‘Adriatic’ 392 ha, ‘Sivac North’ 2,198 ha, ‘Sivac South’ 1.240 ha. Here, I'll show you now, and this is in Novi Gajdobra, this is in Obrovec, Karadjordjevo North. (Vojislav Seselj: Do you have any pictures of the starlet? I don't, sir, I do business and irrigation systems, because you gave it to me as a National Assembly to do business. This is what irrigation systems look like, just to find another example. (Vojislav Seselj: everything looks the same to me. ) Well, irrigation systems are all the same mostly on the canal network. Here, Mr. Seselj, we can go together and take a look at it, make sure of it. Fact, March 2018, point of conclusion of Al Rawafed's story on the basis of an international agreement. Everything will be under the irrigation system. One more thing to say about agricultural land. It is owned by Al Rawafed Serbia d.o.o. Registered under the Business Society Act. Your insinuations absolutely do not stand. Al Rawafed d.o.o. Serbia, that means sir, at this point this tenant has paid 250 euros per ha in advance for 4.250 ha of land, paid all. I've talked on this subject in one show, on one medium, and these are serious topics, and I think the story of 6,000 ha of irrigation is a very serious topic besides 50,000 ha of irrigation that we've started. Well, at least you should know what irrigation is, you were a regional secretary, you know what irrigation systems are in Vojvodina, that it's a source of life for Vojvodina, for warfare in Vojvodina. I don't think there is, and as today is the fact that Thursday and we're working on amending the Law on Agricultural Land, it's irrigation systems, it's life for agriculture just as it is for road transport, so it's a irrigation system. There is one system, and I remembered working as soon as I became a minister, solved and put a function system, and we will put 10,900 ha in central Serbia, which covers the area of Bogatic and Sapca under the irrigation system, will be fully irrigated. So besides that, I apologize if I'm more emotional, but I really care about this. It's started, it's in progress, it'll be over. In the end, about renting agricultural land. I may look funny to you, but I'm trying to do the job I got. Income from agricultural land, from rentals 2016/2017 the year compared to 2015/2016; The year is 50,000 ha more in lease, 53m euros has been earned. The lease is 314 thousand ha, using two tools that we have under the law of availability. One is based on bids, and the other is based on the right of more than one livestock hire because cattlemen must have a certain, privileged status. The fact is, I have a problem with law enforcement, and that's why we're going to work on these changes to prevent abuses. Let's just get back to one more thing. You remember the time, as much as the programme on renting agricultural land in the state property of 2010/2011 has been adopted. A year? Who had control of that? At this point, there are only four local self-governments who have not done so and whose tools have been launched, their transfer funds have been suspended and until they do as they are legally not going to get anything. I think it's fair and legal, fair to those who meet their legal obligations. We're trying to fix the agricultural land system, it's not easy. We have an unlimited circumstance. A responsibility has been shared between local self-government and the state. One of them's bringing in the program, trying everything and everything. We've got different situations, but the fact is that they're also going for forced harvesting of crops where we have usurped land. And let me finish. We're doing as much as we know, as much as we can. We're trying to run things that haven't been run in decades, and time will also make citizens judge whether it was good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18992	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Orlic, you asked for a replica of the exhibit? Mr. Jesic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18993	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, because of the question of what the government of Alexander Vukic did on several occasions with all the dramatic appeal not to measure ourselves with Poland and other countries, and I heard your comment, Mr. Minister, and there you are quite right. A lot of contradictory things we hear here. And today, but not just today. Among other things, calls for those who are reportedly on the words, in theory only pro-European, and of these calls we hear that we should not do what our international agreement, obligation, precisely in the context of these European integrations that some care about, but are not quite sure. If they perform with the thesis today - does this law serve nothing, because no one will come here? When did we think of that? How come we don't remember that in those many months behind us when these people, the people in Serbia, were afraid? They were afraid of stories – oh, now that there's liberalisation, so when they all do, they'll ruin everything alive, and this vermin government, then the government of Alexander Vukic will do nothing to save you. Of course, they're hypocritical and mean as they can, and they're transferring what they've got themselves mixed up with others, and today it might seem to them that they're still sounding too unseriously, so they're changing the story. What were those governments doing to Alexander Vukic? For example, on the subject of those IPARD funds, are they or not, there is a minister to correct me if I'm wrong, they worked to meet technical conditions and that a dozen days ago the news came that the fourth was fulfilled, now we have an independent audit and now we're going to meet the possibility, we're going to meet the condition that we compete for 175 million right in the sphere we're talking about today, thanks to the government's efforts that someone's been wondering about, is this government working on the irrigation problem, here's a program called Abu Dhabi Fund? We got officially from the province level five days ago, started implementing the system, and 50,000 acres we're going to solve through 14 systems. Did these governments work domestically, so thanks to some pluses that they made in class, they got a chance to deal with projects for a new tranche of short loans? Have these governments worked on European integrations seriously and implemented standards, so that we can compare ourselves to Poland and other successful countries, to be part of the world, not DOS Palanka, as some have said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18994	Thank you. Mr. Jesic, you're looking for a replica, too? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18995	You have 10 Ministers of Labour and an artistic impression in the '90s. I know every meter of channels you've shown and if I've told you, until you've come after the old one, now we hear the IPARD waiting for you. What was the Prime Minister, the president of the party, four years ago, what kind of minister had that? Around the land, of course I've banalized things, because you've been dramatizing the last few days in the media to prevent this Johan Hans and Pierre from coming to buy, and citizens need to know that you need to come to buy, they won't come, we don't have incentives, we're not so well developed, neither are our product prices like they are there, they won't come. On the other hand, we have a problem with you to justify this lease. It is, Minister, property and lease, but 30 years of lease, it's a lifetime of one, one whole life. About the State Agricultural Land Act you mentioned and the projects you've received, I know the structure of the projects you've received, but just tell me how we're increasing competitiveness here, so someone's going to bid him land and he's going to build a bigger farm. Great, or they'll do something else. But how will it increase competitiveness? He doesn't need 100,000 acres of land to build a processing industry. Stop the corruption in the wind, that's what I said on the first day, you have a problem, you have a problem at the Fitosanitary. You've got a problem, they've been complaining that you have a problem, so when they start working on their own to stop them from all sides. You have a problem with these things and you solve it and you raise investors there, give free funds in the processing industry. I don't have a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18996	The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18997	Just for a while, and on the food industry's continent, exactly what was critical of budgeting, the funds that were identified under the Ministry of Food Support, investments are just intended for the food industry. There's one more thing that's come to my mind now, it's about the Agriculture Act, it's, there's a story in the debate that you're going to support, and when there was a vote, there was no one there. That's how it was in December of the month. You know that well. The third thing, as far as investment is concerned, we support investments that ultimately have a processing industry and that's how the law is written, that's how the regulation is written, not simply investing in primary agricultural production. You won't see it anywhere. It'll be a pleasure to meet you in the next 15 days, after we've finished 80% of the cases, there's a lot of burden on property legal relations with restitution and everything else, to go public and say, these are these projects, these are in these environments, there's fruit processing, there's vegetable processing. It's very important to us because of the market. I will end up with Tennis, Tennessee is important for the market and for the processing industry. It is important, because 6000 kilometers is its space, which it covers with final products, not with half-carcases, a kilo of meat, six kilograms of meat, but with final products exactly the same as "Mitros" currently exports its goods to the EU and Russia area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18998	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u18999	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been brought to a certain extortion. We were facing a disaster, and before the disaster broke out, you came up with this bill. It's not enough, it's not complete, it's not what Serbia should be, but it solves some problems. It reminds me of this disaster that happened right in Montenegro, suddenly one third of Montenegro planned. Montenegro – NATO state, it would now not accept Russian help for anything in the world, wait for NATO help and after a long, long wait, a helicopter from Bulgaria comes in, sips a little water, then regrets something, and goes out again and then dies. Instead of having that giant Antonov come along and suddenly slap and suddenly solve the problem, is that you wanted to come with Antonov, slap and solve the problem, you as a government would have decided that Serbia would give up EU membership. There is no other serious solution to the problem. There was a cartoon mention here of Pierre, Hans, Rudolph and who else was Johan, but be careful, we will not have a Western European pair coming and buying land individually, but we will have different Todorovics coming and worse than Todorovic. Todoric bought six thousand hectares of agricultural land, during the dosmania, you are not the culprits for everything, but you are guilty enough to need you, they are all the same to me. And you were the leader of DOS as much as I remember in my time, you got smart, but not enough. There is a Marko Pipunić from Osijek, his firm Zitogroup, and he has 2,000 hectares in Ratkov. There's an Irish firm called "Baltic Property Investments Limited", 13,000 acres. Don't let people play with Hans Pierre, Ludwig and Beethoven. It's not about the couples. It's about something more nasty. We're lucky that Todorovic is dying, so he had to sell our Matijević six thousand acres urgently. That looks like it's not his anymore, so from what I hear, it's Mattie's now, right? It's a little easier for me now. But I'm waiting for Todorovic to fail so much that we can throw up Carnex, too, to get the Zrenjanin Oil Factory back and get back the "Frike" ice cream factory. Well, it doesn't matter, you understand what I'm talking about. I've been on a business trip for a long time, so I didn't have all the strings in my hands all the time. When Romania liberalised the sale of the country, and you know howexpressly Romania joined Bulgaria into the EU. They were told – will you go to NATO? We will. Here you are in the EU. There were no 35 negotiating packages. There was no condition to give up Erdel, the Good One, give up anything else. Transylvania has given up otherwise. There I hear that Western companies have been washing oil out of oil shale and have destroyed huge land areas, that it's more difficult to recover in 100 years, how much damage has been done. It's not as huge as the United States, so it gives itself the will to devastate huge amounts of oil and oil shale gas, and then they can wait 1,000 years for nature to restore it. In Romania, it's disastrous. In Romania, 800,000 hectares of oracica have been sold at extremely low prices, and they are not up to Pierre, or Hans, or Ludwig, or Johan, are there more? They didn't come to buy it. Why is our country attractive? Because it's still unpolluted. Our country has not yet absorbed as much chemistry as Western Europe has. Lucky for me, it turns out. Food will be sought that is not chemically treated, and it will be the most successful exports very quickly. And that's why we have to save ourselves for a while. You see, there are 1.6 million acres of agricultural land in Vojvodina. There was a lot more of him. This land is a bit devastationd by industrial development, instead of choosing infertile meadows, to choose desserts to build industrial buildings. Often the best oracles are sacrificed, still done. Because it's like a bigger income here. In the long run, it'll turn out to be a mistake. We shouldn't be making those mistakes. The Stabilisation and Accession Agreement entered into force on 1 September 2013. We had to get these advances out of the party then, because Tomislav Nikolic, not consulting anyone in the party, accepted the agreement because he was holding negotiations with Bozidar Djelic. Not consulting anyone. He went out, and he said, "We have negotiated, we have agreed, and we accept." I'm looking at the transmission, 2,000 kilometers away, I've caught up with the telephone forces, Belgrade, emergency session, and you're gonna accept it a little bit tomorrow. And he couldn't vote for it either. Of course, then he went his own way without going back. We need, when it comes to these things, a broader problem to look at. You spoke to the ministers about the funds where the money was waiting for us. You know how complicated it is, I suppose, and when the conditions come to pass, use the money from those funds. How many EU officials should be bribed to get the money to lie down, so the money doesn't lie down, but they are asking to pay for you, so they are blackmailing you that companies will hire for certain jobs. And a whole series of other things. Today, the European Union is the most corrupt state-political creation in the world. There are no countries more corrupt than the EU. Secondly, the EU has an incredibly developed bureaucracy. The EU's bureaucratic system already has nearly 15,000 laws, regulations. You wanted to translate it, so the Croats offered you their translations, that was at the time of the dosmanium, as I recall. But it grows every day. You, by joining the EU, want to push Serbia into a black hole, and no one knows what that black hole is, just swallowing, swallowing planets, swallowing stars, swallowing whole galaxies. This would be the EU for Serbia. Why she finds us interesting. She doesn't want us well. She wants to push us into NATO. If Serbia today said we want to join NATO, they would say you can join the EU, so we will take Serbia and Kosovo together, equally, so you will be members of the EU, hugged, as born brothers. We have nothing good to expect from the EU. She only wants to hurt us. They also want Vojvodina to secede from Serbia and they haven't given up on it. Who knows what they're cooking for us in the Ra's area, or Sandzak. Who knows what they want there. A new conflict between Serbs and Muslims, so that they can mix and benefit from it. The war in Bosnia is caused by it. We had a final agreement with Izetbegovic, that Bosnia and Herzegovina, as an equal federal unit, would remain in the short-term Yugoslavia, fully equal, for Muslims to be absolutely recognised as the status of the nation they had and for Izetbegovic to be the first president of that shortened Yugoslavia. He accepted everything, Americans and other Westerners persuaded – Don't, what do you need when you can have an independent state. You can, but how? At what cost? At the cost of 100,000 dead, both Muslims and Serbs and Croats. The order is according to the number of dead. We need to get out of that EU. Why is she even texting us? She can get cheap raw materials with us, she's still coming. He's got a very cheap workforce. Our labour force has been decommissioned, slave labour. When Friedrich Engels wrote about the position of the working class in England, I read it as a high schooler, he seemed to have had a situation in Serbia, enterprises where the owners are foreigners. I don't mean at all, but in many such companies. Especially where Serbia gave up both income and salary taxes and where it paid every employee 10,000 euros and so on. And that workers still have to wear "Pampers" diapers when they go to work. Serbia receives more than two billion euros each year from our people living abroad, and how does the EU get it out of Serbia? By being semi-colonial, so we're forced to buy all their goods, which we don't need, especially agricultural products, especially food. The dosmania are guilty, of course. It's not all your fault. You're just their sequels in my eyes, so sometimes a little lighter, sometimes a little sharper, sometimes this, sometimes that, but there you are. You took over their politics, and that's why you maimed them like this. You've taken over their EU entry policy. They extract it from Serbia with their milk, with their meat, with any food, and our milkers fail, our meat producers fail. You can see how much the stock fund in Serbia is reduced every year. Isn't that right, Minister? Instead of increasing, it decreases from year to year. You see, the dosmanians accepted that in 2008 they abolished unilateral customs duties on almost all EU products and it choked us. Well, you'd better eat a Serbian apple, even though it's a dinar or two more expensive or potatoes or beans than it is importing. Why do we need Polish apples? You say that's what you advances do, that our imports and exports are the largest from the EU. Why? Because you're buying stuff. As far as exports are concerned, one of the largest items is this "Fiat", and there is no real export, you know that. That's what the pieces come in, fold into Kragujevac and go. What's Serbian production? Very little. They told me, there's a crane that's made in the Svilinca. Let the private company make good cranes. This was installed in this "Fiatovo" vehicle from Kragujevac. We don't get anything here. We need to get out of the EU as soon as possible. We must go into an economic alliance, both political and military, of course, with countries that are economically complementary to us, with countries where we can produce everything we can and sell. Of course, we must satisfy quality. No one buys unquality goods anymore. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's what's important in this case. This was about restitution. Restitution is one great evil. It was also an evil communist kidnapping of people's property, but much greater evil was the shooting of innocent civilians. Today, a colleague of ours mentioned a shooting range in New Market. Well, there's no city in Serbia where communists didn't shoot innocent civilians. (Marian Risticevic: 70,000) What 70,000? According to some studies, about 200,000 Serbs are Partisans... Miodrag Mijatovic: You were a communist too. ) Listen, what I was, it'll show history, but if I was ever like a little boy, at least I was cured of it, and I don't think you ever cured yourself. Miodrag Mijatovic: I did not. You didn't? Well, that's good. He's got a good cure for it. The European Union has forced you, both you and Dosmania, to enter into that restitution at all, and there was no legal basis for it. If something's been taken, it's past the limitation period and it's over. What's nationalized, it's also paid, and now you're making up for the damage to the grandchildren and great-grandsons of the former tycoons. Wait, if you accidentally arrest a tycoon and put him in jail after 20, 30 years and they'll ask for compensation and get back everything that's been taken away from them. You think only now are thieves getting rich overnight? That's what happened before. It was the time of the original accumulation of capital. From the Book of Milos and beyond many, many have robbed the Serbian people. He even brought out one Serbian fortune from Serbia and its wealth was more valuable in Vlaska, or Romania, than all other state property of Serbia. Don't. How's who got it? There was a cataclysm. The communists came to ruin everything. We can't bring the shooters back to life, so what if we were to return the property to who was kidnapped? Come on, property is now returned and appears in public some time ago, about a month ago, the director of the Restitution Agency Strahinja Sekulić and he attacks the very idea that compensation is paid innocently to the gunmen. So whoever's an innocent shooting family doesn't have the right to compensation, and whoever's taken away the property, no matter how that property is acquired, he's got to be compensated for the property. Here's what's been done in our country. No one's thought about it. Anyone who thinks is isolated for a number of years, so that the stupid people can lead the main word here. Now, while I correct everything that's been dirty for 12 years by the Dossmanian authorities and six years of your authority, it takes me at least five, six years to get it all in order. Minister, just smile, I'm serious. Me, and when I laugh the most, I'm very serious. What's the most dangerous thing now? The most dangerous thing is that what hasn't been returned in the restitution, calculated to be worth two billion euros and now our poor poverty in the next ten years is going to settle for those former rich people another two billion euros. Don't, so get those communist leaders out of the graves. Sell them bronze monuments, and make up for it. There's that staff you can sell from the flower house.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19000	Thank you, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19001	I haven't said everything yet. I'm not running out of time, am I? Here's another sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19002	Please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19003	Therefore, an urgent request must be made from the Restitution Agency for what is and who is returned to. A large number of foreigners have returned property, which do not have Serbian citizenship. And to stop the cash compensation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19004	National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19005	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I don't know if Vojislav Seselj is still a communist or not, but he mentioned on several occasions the SNS and how he was always against the EU. At the defence team meeting of Mr Vojislav Seselj, which took place on 9 July 2008... (The Faith of Radeta: Were you there? Take it easy, don't get upset. So, on July 9th 2008, one part of the talks between Vojislav Seselj and Tomislav Nikolic. Seselj says: “Good. Nothing, we stick to this position we agreed on, so if our Ratification Act goes, we vote yes. “ If our amendment is inserted into their ratification law, ” he says, “we vote yes. If we don't accept ours, we vote against it. Is that what we agreed? “ Never did we. “ Seselj: “It’s good. So that's exactly where we're going to end up, and we can defend that position anywhere. We want to join the EU if we are guaranteed Kosovo as part of Serbia. We've defined that before the election, and so we stick to it and we're not going anywhere. There, it's falling a little with a feeling of disgust, we want to join the EU, but Kosovo is above all. So whoever guarantees us Kosovo in Serbia can count on our support. “ That was July 9th. On 14 July, I am saying this because of the public, I am saying this because of the citizens of Serbia, Mrs Verica Radeta, who has just given me a moment and Tomislav Nikolic submits two amendments to the Stabilisation and Association Act, which the government has accepted and the agreement was if the government accepts, then the 2008 government, if it accepts two amendments to the SRS to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and the amendment to Tomislav Nikolic, so-called. The interpretative amendment which was all of those controversial SAA provisions concerning our sovereignty and territorial integrity interpreted in our favour, the agreement was then voted for by the SAA. So what Mr. Seselj said is simply, in a historical sense, not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19006	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19007	The democracy of applause, it's the only thing that's still under Stalin. People, let them guarantee today that Kosovo remains in Serbia, here, I will be right for the EU. What's wrong with you? But I know for sure 100% that it will not give us Kosovo to stay in Serbia. And these two amendments have nothing to do with Kosovo. And Tomislav Nikolic violated the powers I gave him, and left without anyone knowing that he was negotiating with Bozidar Djelic. That's why he broke up at the presidential college, left alone, out of 15 members, 14 against him. It was only when other conjugal and police and tycoon factors interfered, that some began to separate, amazed by the amount of money offered to them. As far as the EU is concerned, here, I agree now to join immediately, but to guarantee Kosovo in Serbia and that EU members who have recognised Kosovo's independence call off that independence, that is, that recognition. No doubt, for Kosovo I would now be given to me here to cut off the head behind the pay phone, let alone agree to the EU. Well, it's going to fall apart, I say, in 10, 15 years, so we're going to hold out somehow, but we're going to have Kosovo. So that's where things are clear. We had no policy change on this issue, and Nikolic's insistence was -- Kosovo, Kosovo, Kosovo. It will, it will, I've come up with this, if they guarantee that Kosovo will remain in Serbia's composition. But they won't and we knew then they won't, and he's got a suitcase of money to accept Djelic's variant. That's why he lost his honour and face, even if he was president of the Republic in one term.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19008	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19009	Again, for the sake of historical truth, the amendment that Mr. Seselj as president of the SRS said he supported and could enter the procedure. So, the amendment to Tomislav Nikolic reads: “After Article 1. The draft law on the confirmation of the SAA is added to the new Article 2 which reads – the Republic of Serbia as the legal follower of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia to the provision of the seventh paragraph of the preamble to the Agreement, in which the Contracting Parties express their commitment to full implementation of all principles and provisions of the UN Charter, the OSCE, in particular those contained in the final act of the Conference on European Security and Co-operation, the final documents of the Madrid and Vienna Conference and the Paris Charter for the New Europe and the Stability of Southeast Europe to contribute to regional stability and co-operation between the countries of the region, Article 2. The Agreement, under which respect for the principle of international law will constitute the basis for the internal and external policies of the Contracting Parties and constitutes an essential element of the Agreement, Article 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Agreement", ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, "by which the Agreement is not applied in Kosovo, which is currently under international administration in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of 10 June 1990", I stress this final sentence, "does not prejudice the current status of Kosovo, nor determine its final position towards the same Resolution," so according to Resolution 1244, "and the Republic of Serbia understands as a confirmation that the Agreement does not jeopardise Serbia's territorial integrity, and in particular the status of the province of Kosovo and Metohija as an integral part of Serbia's territory, which is guaranteed by UN Security Council Resolution 1244, part of its preamble, which reads – reaffirming the attachment of all Member States to sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and other countries of the region...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19010	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19011	... as indicated in the Helsinki document and annex 2...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19012	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19013	... and Annex 2 to point 5 of the first Resolution 1244... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19014	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. I'm sorry, I gave you 11 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19015	Let me just finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19016	You'll get two more minutes later since Mr. Seselj...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19017	Take it away from me from the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19018	I can't, really. I'll give you two more minutes later since Mr. Seselj called and asked for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19019	This has nothing to do with the SAA. This isn't accepted, it's not in the Agreement. Where's that for Kosovo? (Alexander Martinovic: Here is the amendment. Ma, where was he accepted? (Alexander Martinovic: Well, accepted by the government. Ma, she did not accept it, she did not because Tomislav Nikolic found a compromise with Bozidar Djelic. (Alexander Martinovic: Well, Djelic accepted the speaker. ) Ma, accepted the modified version. (Alexander Martinovic: Ma, it is accepted. That's not true. Well, then he's not in the law of acceptance. Half of them were present. (Alexander Martinovic: He is accepted. Here, ask Natasha if he's accepted. It's not true, it's not accepted. Here comes Krasic, who was the smartest in your composition at the time in my absence. It's not accepted. If it were accepted, Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic would still be members of the SRS, but it was not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19020	The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19021	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the amendment has been accepted. At the session of Mr. Seselj's defence team on 5 September 2008, Seselj asked, "What did the Assembly look like today?" Then they say, "She looked like one." Then he says -- well, let them adopt it that way and that's it, when they adopt it, then they can end the debate, is that right, says Zoran Krasic, whom you have now mentioned to be the smartest. I say, he's the smartest. Krasic says – it becomes an integral part of the law. And after that, he's already declared his amendment tonight, Djelic. So, Mr. Seselj, Djelic accepted both amendments to the SRS as a pay phone. (Vojislav Seselj: Where are they incorporated into the law? ) Both amendments to the SRS were accepted, and then you are afraid of what you say, that Vojislav Kostunica will push us from an ultranationalist position, so that he becomes one. That's all I care about, and on September 5th you ask – what does the DSS say about it? The squirrel Radeta says – the DSS won't vote under this condition either, and then you say – then we won't vote either. That was the real truth. You said we will vote, and then when you were afraid that Kostunica would turn out to be a bigger nationalist than you did, then you broke over your knee and said, well, we won't vote now, and Tomislav Nikolic, the day before that, on September 4th, said, "We will vote if you accept our amendments." Bozidar Djelic comes out for a pay phone and says – The government accepts both amendments to the SRS and the Vjerica amendment Rade and the amendment to Tomislav Nikolic, and you, in fear of DSS and Vojislav Kostunica, say – do not make Kostunica a bigger nationalist than we do, now we will not vote for the SAA.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19022	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the law from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19023	This is an incredible interpretation. Look now. If our request had been accepted, if the government had accepted it, it would immediately have been incorporated into the text of the law and the law would have been passed with that amendment of ours. Look at the text of the law and you'll see it's not there. When something is agreed and Tomislav Nikolic negotiated with Bozidar Djelic, then adopted, it is incorporated into the text of the bill and voted on it. If it was agreed, and we eventually refused to vote, it would still remain in the law. How could that not be left in the law if the government accepted? I can't figure that out from Martinovic. He says he was crazy when he was a radical and then logically it would be to conclude when he stopped being a radical, when he became an advanced man that his health had improved. But there's a disaster here, and it's getting worse and worse here. If our amendment had been accepted, he would have stayed in law and today he would have been in law, and that's clear. Look at the law and you'll see this one's gone, because this is never accepted. I repeat, let the EU say it accepts Serbia with Kosovo in its composition and guarantees Kosovo's remaining in Serbia and for all EU members who have recognised Kosovo to withdraw their recognition and I will vote, reluctantly, with pain, I will shut my nose, but I will vote for EU entry, counting quickly on it to fail, but it will not.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19024	Thank you, Mr. Seselj. The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19025	I admit by who knows which way and I'm stupid, and I don't know anything, and I'm the biggest idiot in the world, and it's all right. But here, on September 4, 2008, Momir Markovic, an SRS MP, my colleague, come on, answer the ministers, address Djelic, do you accept the amendment, accept the SRS amendment and we can go to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement right now. Natasha Jovanovic, who now tells me I'm lying, that I'm a fool, that I'm an idiot, we want to integrate, and we're certainly not against it. Therefore, we still have to focus things in the right direction, say that we want to accept this agreement when the SRS amendment is adopted, if it is accepted and only under this condition that will mean a long and thorny way when it comes to the EU. Gordana Paunović Milosavljevic, an SRS MP, we are all seeking here, not just MPs sitting on my left, to go to the EU. So, Mr. Seselj, you are not unconditional for the EU as you claim. You are in favour of the EU, but under that condition is the SNS and no one gives you the right to label us as some kind of traitors and we say – we want to join the EU with KIM. When did you hear from some SNS official that he said – we want to join the EU at all costs and without KIM? What you're saying here, the EU treats us like slaves, robs us, poisons our country, oil spikes, oil, etc., but if they recognize that Kosovo is ours then we want to join the EU. You're in contradiction with yourself. [[Vojislav Seselj: Replica. It must be my last replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19026	Mr. Seselj, given that it is 14.00 hours and in accordance with Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm setting a break from one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. According to the Rules of Procedure, Natasa Jovanovic's MP has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19028	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Milicevic, precisely because of you, because you violated Article 27 in the most harsh way. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, you finished the session before the start of the break, which is common, for an hour, by not allowing the president of the parliamentary group, Prof. Vojislav Seselj, to complete the cycle of replicas to tending manipulation and falseness by Aleksandar Martinovic, who is not in the hall at the moment, but also that he is, you will certainly be able to pass on to him and, in the end, let the entire public hear, that someone might not be mistaken for the period of time when Alexander Martinovic was talking about an appearance in the SRS. He was a national MP, later given the opportunity to promote himself because he said he believed in the ideology of the SRS, in what we have been in favour of our president for more than 20 years, that he is against Serbia's membership in the EU. Then, for the sake of great privileges, functions and all that the advances gave him turned the turkey upside down, he used, with your nomination, Mr. Milicevic, a direct transfer of the Serbian Parliament's session to manipulate, lie and deceive the public of Serbia. The point is, Mr. Milicevic, and I must remind you, I also reminded myself earlier that you, Djordje Milicevic, also made a statement on that day in 2008 after that famous move, that Tomislav Nikolic had the intention not to protect Kosovo and Metohija, that he wanted to present Alexander Martinovic, but to do everything so that Vojislav Seselj would not return from The Hague, and he returned, to the pride of the nation and unfortunately to Tomislav Nikolic. Please, Mr. Milicevic, do not do such things in the future, because, as someone said, and that was one of the slogans, that against us Serbian radicals and Vojislav Seselj in a legal sense and political medicine there is no. Don't break the Rules of Procedure and think that way you'll shut us up, because the truth always comes out.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19029	First of all, I want to tell you that it wasn't really my intention to shut anyone up. I allowed the debate and Mr. Seselj and Mr. Martinovic made arguments both for and against. I don't know if you've noticed, but in the course of a debate that lasted several MPs, it approached me and insisted that we focus the debate on what is the topic of today's agenda, which is to amend and supplement the Agricultural Land Act. I really did not intend to deny Mr. Seselj's right, nor Mr. Martinovic's position clearly and precisely. It's, of course, legitimately the right of them to be head of Parliament clubs. I don't think, by releasing a democratic confrontation of opinions, I have not violated the Rules of Procedure in a democratic open debate. Do you want the Parliament in voting day to make a statement about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19030	Yes, I want to make a statement to the Assembly. I've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure again, this time, Article 107. So, you're rudely insulting my dignity now, saying that to God's concerned MPs approached most of you because the debate is moving in a direction that you don't want to. First of all, why were you planning so much time, so you didn't schedule a session of the Assembly by order of your mentors from the EU, that the law would come to your turn. Secondly, you can't, Mr. Milicevic, if Aleksandar Martinovic, through a harsh act of untrueness, started a series of replicas, to conclude the session and to end it, and to the one who was renamed in the way Martinovic did, which is Professor. Seselj, you don't let it end and say what the point is, and that's what Martinovic would have to know, that's what I'm going to end up with, that speaking of which, I should now remind the whole public, those who didn't look before the break that it was about, about how this famous law was adopted on the declaration of the SAA. There is no vote on amendments, they become an integral part of the law, so no one could, as Martinovic falsely said, vote against any amendment, because such an amendment in the voting procedure among MPs was not there.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19031	As you can see, even now I really didn't want to interrupt your exposure, respecting your right, even though several MPs came before you, pointing to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So, you want the People's Assembly in voting day to plead on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19032	Article 107, I think that, Mr. Milicevic, at the end of the afternoon you were exposed to serious insults by Mr. Seselj, in my personal opinion for no reason whatsoever. That man is convinced that he must always be right at all costs. If Vojislav Seselj is for you the new Stalin who is sinless, he is not for me. Vojislav Seselj was trying to convince me that I was a fool, come on, it's okay, that I'm a jerk, and that's okay, I accept all that, but he can't convince me that the amendment of Tomislav Nikolic, which was accepted by the government, wasn't incorporated into the SSP Confirmation Act when it was installed. I have now brought, so that Serbian citizens see, therefore, the Law on Confirmation of the SAA between the European Communities and their Member States on the one hand and the Republic of Serbia on the other hand, published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" - international contracts, No. 83/2008. Article 2 of that Law on ratification of the SAA reads in the letter as the amendment to Tomislav Nikolic reads. So - Republika Srpska as a legal follower of the SRJ provision of the seventh paragraph, etc., among other things, Article 135(2). The agreement, under which the agreement does not apply in Kosovo, which is currently under international administration in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution, does not prejudice the current status of Kosovo, nor determine its final position towards the same resolution. Only then does Article 3 which says - the original text of the agreement in Serbian - reads: "Stabilisation Agreement" etc., etc. So, the amendment to Tomislav Nikolic, accepted by the government, adopted by Bozidar Djelic for the assembly speaker, was incorporated into the text of the SSP Confirmation Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19033	I don't think I've broken a member in any way that you've pointed out. My question to you is just one thing, do you want the National Assembly in the voting day to declare the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the word has a People's MP, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19034	I thank the chairman. I think you've hurt Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, which obliges you to apply the Rules of Procedure when it is the conduct of debate and order in the Assembly, and we, MPs, must be consistent only with the Rules of Procedure, according to nothing else, which means that we cannot abuse the Rules of Procedure or the powers of the Rules of Procedure. In particular, it is about your argument that you believe that you have not injured the Rules of Procedure is not allowed to reply to you, any of the MPs are not allowed to address you in replication and abuse of the Rules of Procedure, giving some other facts that come out of the framework of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure and you have tolerated it, it is not disputed. I think in the sense of Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, all of us together, no matter what parliamentary group we belong to, we must compare the debate, first of all compare culture, compare first and foremost dignity, because we represent the dignity of this Assembly, we represent the dignity of this Parliament and in this spirit to lead the discussion. Most importantly, we must respect both ourselves and the function of the chairman who maintains order and who must maintain order in this congregation. Thank you for the tolerance that you've expressed on behalf of all of us MPs, regardless of what you've had as an opportunity to endure. And it's a symbol of the dignity of this congregation through you and your behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19035	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. So I simply cannot predict how the MPs will explain the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure. There you are, of course, among other things as colleagues to suggest. If I had in any way prevented my colleague Jovanovic from talking about the second-in-a-kind violation of the Rules of Procedure, it could have been defined as my intention to prevent the opposition from speaking, which I really don't want to. I think that I also showed it in the first part of the session, not wanting to prevent the democratic confrontation of opinions, although at certain times we have moved away from what is, among other things, the topic of today's debate, and these are amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19036	Mr. Milicevic, I now advertise Article 32. Rules of Procedure. I would have the right to reply, given that the speaker Aleksandar Martinovic spoke to me in a certain way now. Here is the point, I will end up, not in what he wants to present that Toboj Tomislav Nikolic was concerned about the fate of Kosovo and Metohija, so he ascended to install it in the text of the SAA Agreement. The point is, you know, Mr. Martinovic, because at the time you were supposed to be a radical, respecter of the face and work of Vojislav Seselj held captive in the Hague case, that he had received huge money from Stanko Subotic, whom you freed for all his crimes, from Miskovic and who knows who else. You didn't then, Mr. Martinovic, participate in the million-dollar piece of cake. Well, when you seemed to be short of money, then you changed your uniform and went the other way, because now you're eligible for those privileges.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19037	My colleague Jovanovic, please, you pointed out...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19038	What did you say? You and I can't talk out loud. So wait till I finish my explanation, and then you're talking. That's exactly what article 32 tells you, that you are helping the president to work by respecting the rights of MPs. You and I talk out loud, since I was also vice president of the Assembly in two terms and I know very well what I'm talking about and what your obligation is, it's just impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19039	That is right, Article 32 speaks – Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly are helping the National Assembly president to do business in his work. You're absolutely right. I just wanted to ask you to speak to me, not Mr. Martinovic and Mr. Orlic. That's all I wanted to say, and it wasn't my intention to interrupt you again, it was just to suggest that you speak directly to me. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19040	Article 103(8) Classic abuse of the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure. So, you yourself, Mr. Chairman, have noticed that the member who mentioned Mrs. Jovanovic has nothing to do with it, but it has nothing to do with what's going on in the O.R. or what she's saying. It's completely pointless, child behavior, to have someone say the number that comes to mind, that they don't even know what they're referring to, what member they're referring to, just to get up and start talking about. That's completely pointless. When something like that happens, the minimum minimum of the minimum that the chairman has to do is apply Article 103 of Article 8, which I'm talking about now, in every situation, and it has nothing to do with how hurt someone and how much desire and heat they jump to take advantage of the opportunity to talk in two minutes. It may hurt someone, freely to the will, the fact that he himself is quoted as saying he supports European integration, but doesn't give him the right to slap any member and talk for two minutes. Someone, Mr. Chairman, can feel as much as he wants to be insulted and hurt because his head of Parliament is embarrassed in front of all of Serbia, the fact that he's caught in a lie, but he can't behave like that. One can feel as bad and angry as he wants to feel about the fact that every time Aleksandar Martinovic reacts to someone's exposure, the one whose exposure he reacts to turns out to be completely funny, but he can't behave like that, Mr. Chairman. When you give yourself the right to behave in this way, it is your obligation to say – you see this, there is a Rules of Procedure, it may be difficult for you to read it, it may be difficult for you to understand it, it doesn't matter, but it exists and we have to work in harmony with it. Then the member of the 103rd Rules of Procedure, and the attitude of the 8th member of that article 103, says, "Two minutes for further discussion is taken away." The discomfort and anger they feel, let them remain permanent, it doesn't matter. In those two minutes or more, the fact that they were caught in a lie and in confessions today, it will remain forever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19041	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Since you have spoken to me personally, it is really not difficult and I have read the Rules of Procedure and I know the Rules of Procedure, but I repeat that it was not my intention to in any way deny the MPs of the opposition, because then it would be that we representatives of the majority usurp the right of the opposition to speak in parliament and that is the only reason. So, I wanted to make it possible for a democratic conflict of opinion, a democratic debate. You're absolutely right, it stands for Article 103. If I, as chairman or one of my colleagues, Article 103 of Position 8, can be taken away from the time of the parliamentary group of times which, through the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure, are in some way abused, but you also know that I am in some way a Democrats and do not want to prevent a democratic confrontation of opinion. Again, on the other hand, I don't want to sanction, because I know how important it is when you're in the opposition and those two minutes. However, there must be one threshold of tolerance and here I fully agree with you. I agree that in the time ahead, at least during today's debate and the next days, if these things are happening, we must apply Article 103 of Section 8. That's the only reason. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the injury displayed? (Vladimir Orlic: We do not need to vote, just to act faster. I thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19042	You too, Mr. Milicevic, are obliged to use the Rules of Procedure to protect the dignity of the Assembly. You couldn't possibly give this errand boy, Alexander Martinovic, a word to teach you what to do. He otherwise claims to replace Martinovic at the post.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19043	Just a member, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19044	Art. 107, 27, 32, whatever you want, there's a lot of them if you give me every two minutes. So nobody here uses a pay phone and abuses the Rules of Procedure to correct something, but to tell the truth and only the truth. The truth is that Tomislav Nikolic has gone into history, it is true that he has betrayed the interests he allegedly advocated. The truth is that Vojislav Seselj is always telling the truth and only the truth. The truth is that you ended the session today in the roughest way, by not letting Professor Seselj finish the cycle of replicas started by Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19045	My colleague Jovanovic, this is what you ended up with, that I interrupted Mr. Seselj in the roughest way, and that will be decided by the National Assembly in the day of the vote. I told you during the first alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure in the second part of today's session that it was really not my intention. Since you have been talking to me the whole time, you have not addressed the MPs of the people, of course, I personally believe that I have not violated the members you have pointed out to, but also the court will hand over fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament in voting day. It's mine to ask you if you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. We continue the debate. The word has a national MP, Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19046	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Minister, distinguished guests, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, although this problem with selling the country, i.e. an oran of foreigners, is something that has been going on for years, that we do not say for a full decade, yet we have come to its resolution, here we are at 12 because we know that the deadlines are approaching and that the deadline for application is 1 September 2017, and that is not a full week. Right away, the signing of the SAA was a big mistake and that mistake was made, and I know it, and so does the distinguished minister with whom I was together in the same party and against signing the SAA when it happened. However, this error had the opportunity to correct it and it has had many years to correct it since 2012, and then in 2013, before the agreement was ratified, and even after the ratification of the SAA, it was also an opportunity to do so. We stand before the adoption of these changes, this Law on Agricultural Land, and that no public debate has previously been held, and that agricultural land is a natural and state resource if you want it of great importance. There was no public debate, so it was decided. We didn't hear why it was so decided. We know that if an agreement changes, that all sides should be involved and so does the EU, we do not know what Brussels said. As a Eurosceptics, I don't give a shit what Brussels said, but someone who holds onto institutions and holds on to the rule of law is very important to me and what is the other party to that contract that I disagree with, but still who is there, said now that these changes are going to be made. To remind you, we, as a state after the ratification of the 2013 agreement, have committed to gradually aligning our legislation with the European over the next four years, in order to allow the same treatment for domestic customers, we see that it is now changing, and we do not know what is happening, we do not know what is behind this whole story. We see there's a lot of restrictions in buying land for foreign citizens. I can't argue about it because I think, personally, that the country really shouldn't lecture foreigners at all or that if Serbia does join the EU, then we should tie the sale of the country to foreigners for the eventual entry of Serbia into the EU, then plus ten more years, we should leave it, of course, a referendum and all that should happen in a country that holds to the rule of law. I think these changes solve certain things in a paliatically. We put a dam and restrictions on one population, or one group that is not particularly interested, of which we are not threatened by some great danger, but one or what the dangers we are really threatened by are large foreign companies. Those large foreign companies have bought 20,000 hectares of land so far, it's also a mistake. That mistake should not be repeated, it should not be deepened in any way. So I think we should first address this possibility of buying, or selling countries to foreigners, or large foreign companies. We are already, here in Belgrade, seeing it, though, is not agricultural land, but it is land, a "lex specialis" that pulled out of Belgrade City a certain square of a very important terrain. It is imminent, i.e. there is a risk of the sale of the PKK. Belgrade's agricultural combination takes over one-third of the Palilula municipality, one of the five largest municipalities in Serbia. So, tomorrow someone can do that field outside the house, which the peasants would say, sell and we can run out of that big piece of land, or a fertile country that feeds all of Belgrade. I think it would be good if we looked back at the parallel solutions and went to the revision of that part of the SAA, if we hadn't suspended it already. How did Croatia do? Croatia put the moratorium on for seven years and then extended it to four more. Slovakia, too, has extended for seven years for another three or four years. Poland has put on a moratorium, a transitional period of nine years, has extended for another three years. The most radical was Hungary, which by the constitution banned the sale of foreign countries even though it is a full member of the EU. The restrictions in this law we see, they're big and they even appear, and it's also predicted that if those two acres of foreigner countries want to buy after ten years of farming, they're staying in some place, there can be a state with the right to prevent buying, I don't have anything against it, but there's one collapsing there, not to say confusion. We have in fact the application of state interventionism, I think that's what it's called, and I don't have anything, and on the other hand when it comes to the Privatisation Act, about the possibility that these large foreign companies buy huge hectares, dozens, hundreds, and thousands of acres of terrain, there's actually something called liberal capitalism, so here we have two laws that treat the same matter, we have two completely different ideological concepts. I think these changes that were passed by this law were actually made to calm the internal public a little, because people, especially farmers, were very excited and dissatisfied with this country's sale to foreigners. We know that Vojvodina farmers are against the sale of land to foreigners and they estimate, say, that local self-government will give at least one third of the land to only one buyer. They don't want the amendments, they want this law withdrawn. So, let's say from the League of Paras, they say it's not fair and it's not right for 30% of the land, the state land to be given to only one buyer in one local self-government, and that's where we come to a room for manipulation, to a place for corruption that's not defined by this law, and there's no God knows what it's done. Why am I against selling land to strangers? That's where I'll get some information. Among the last two agricultural lists from 1960 to 2012, the available agricultural land in Serbia, which includes Vojvodina and central Serbia, has been reduced by various purposes, whether it became a forest area, or more so, if it had become a building plot by 1.5 million hectares, I repeat by 1.5 million hectares. Last known last name, he had here in the neighborhood in the case of IKEE. Experts say five people can be fed from one hectare, which means 20 acres per capita. Thus, 7.5 million people could be fed from this repurposed agricultural land. He can't do it anymore today. What does that mean? This means that Serbia can no longer say that it is rich in agricultural land. According to the 2012 agricultural list, available agricultural land accounts for less than half of the total territory, which accounts for 49.08%, and in 46 municipalities out of 166 municipalities, there are less than 20 arable agricultural land per capita. That's the problem, the big problem, about further archiving our state, and I'd say, vital resource for Serbia's survival. In addition, we need to know that according to what I have, Serbian farmers have not yet started using a single €175m-euro euro that has been approved from the EU budget to improve the competitiveness of agriculture and to develop rural areas more uniformly, and this means that out of the total 631.522 agricultural holdings, 39.06 euros per land for the treatment of competitiveness is averaged. This information speaks for itself and the EU. Once again, I suggest that we all think together and tie this country's sales law to foreigners for Serbia's eventual entry into the EU and 10 years after possible entry, then we sell the country to foreigners, of course. Personally, I find the country as a resource, even in a potted pot, not to be sold to strangers. Why do I think that? It's not because I belong to some xenophobic or depraved people, but because, let's say, for the creation of one centimetre of land in nature, depending on the geological background, it takes 1,000 to 25,000 thousand years. To create a new 20cm farmland, as commonly plowed for war crops, it takes a period of between 20,000 and 500,000 years, i.e. an age of 267 to 6,667 generations, if we consider the average life span to be 75 years and so much in Serbia. Therefore, I ask you, Mr Minister and the honourable Members of Parliament, let us consider once again the possibility of this law being tied to any future entry into the EU and with restrictions and with the delay that would be. If we enter the EU, then we will do so, and if we do not enter, we will not sell the country and it will remain ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19047	The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19048	Before I say a few words, I would like to note that in the discussion, this topic has been mentioned on several occasions by the SP that was brought in 2009, as the main cause of all the evils that we now have to deal with. It is true that LSV, as well as most of our partners from the Parliament club, voted in favour of this Agreement, but I would remind myself of one very important thing, that the SAA regulated a lot of other things, since it went into the package, including the White Schengen List, which I had never noticed that anyone had any objections, which we would not have refused that agreement. I'll remind you of one fact, too, that people sitting in this room might remember at the time, which is that both the SAA and the Energy Agreement were voted on at the same time. I will remind you that 140 MPs voted for the SAA, and for the Energy Agreement 220, where LSV was not specifically among those who voted in favour of the Energy Agreement, because we were already saying that the lecture of NIS, in the hands of another country, is practically the same as if you rented your liver to an alcoholic to drink at your expense, and you are left with only cirrhosis. The SAA issue is far more complex and I would not simplify the EU accession and that important step that had to be taken, which is an SAA with this particular issue, with some countries that are EU members, such as Slovakia and Hungary very strongly opposed no limited agricultural land traffic, and that is why on 18 October 2015, in the White Church, LSV launched an action to collect 100,000 signatures, to try to collect 100,000 signatures to launch a referendum on foreign sales and we did everything we could on the subject. On 17 November 2015, the Regional Government, the District Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, brought six amendments to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, aimed at protecting agricultural producers and preventing the sale of land to foreigners. We have come in a position to be asked by LSV on 25 November 2015 to withdraw from the assembly procedure the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land and to access the writing of a new law. I personally warned Agriculture Minister Snježana Bogosavljevic Boskovic that he made a terrible mistake with the law and that it would simply ruin thousands of families in Vojvodina. Unfortunately, however, there was no response from the then government. So the state is responsible not only for this government, but also for the government before that. When I say, on the one hand, that this government is responsible for the situation, and on the other hand we welcome this bill, it seems to be contradictory, and I'm going to make that clear. We are very pleased that this is how it is regulated legally and we are very pleased to do so, but the damage has already been done, and this damage could have been prevented, or at least significantly reduced that this law was brought before. I'll remind you that two years ago, we had a bee-mart situation in Vojvodina, and you remember that Mr. Minister well, today we don't know how nearly three thousand bee hives in Vojvodina died, and we remind ourselves of important things, that without these bees in Vojvodina, not only in Vojvodina, of course, but without bees, 80% of agricultural cultures wouldn't produce fruit. So we're talking about very serious things, so before it's suspected that bees are poisoned by pesticides that were used right on parcels owned by foreign investors. We never got a deal on that. I'd like you to disprove me in this, uh, concrete evidence, but there's no concrete evidence because there's never been an investigation that we knew anything about. On the other hand, who takes care of how they act and how they treat them, do not forget, an unrenewable resource such as arable land? Is it true, Mr. Minister, or is it not, that foreign investors, on certain parcels, meet the same culture five times each and do not respect the basic rules of fertility? Is it true that in this way the country is irrevocably respectable and that it is thus destroying agricultural land, and that we will come into a position that precisely because it does not care about what foreign investors are doing, and that the state treats them motherly, and according to domestic motherland producers, we will come to the position that non-renewable resources, such as agricultural land, will be produced and destroyed, as is currently the situation with oil and natural gas in Vojvodina, which, when the Russian partner finishes its use of that natural resource, will simply be destroyed? So LSV welcomes the adoption of this law. My question is very clear and I'm not even looking for an answer, why did you wait until the last minute for this law to be passed? Praise is worth bringing, but why is it waiting so long? Why are the damages already done? What will happen to other problems in agriculture, therefore, with droughts, with floods, with drains, irrigation, with the reconstruction of a channel network in Vojvodina, with the simmering of a canal that, you know, is the biggest problem in irrigation, deforestation precisely because the disposal of mud is the main problem of the water industry in Vojvodina that cannot, if not understood as a strategic matter, solve? On the other hand, water management is something that we will seriously have problems with in the next period, because Sremska Mitrovica was barely saved last time so she wouldn't be submerged, but it worked once. The reason is very simple, because in the 1960s, after the catastrophic floods of the Danube in 1965, then Yugoslavia made a whole plan to build dams and dams of a water protection belt, so that they could simply accept high water supply. The Danube was poured out in countries preceding Yugoslavia, so in Germany, the Czech Republic, Czechoslovakia, etc., now they too have raised dikes. With the rise of the embankment, water will rise on our edges. So it's only a matter of time before we get in a position to prove our flood defense system insufficiently effective. If this is not invested strategically, if the strategy is not defined by the responsible management of this non-renewable resource, and we know that water and food are infinitely significant at present because, especially in the climate change world, Vojvodina can easily be turned into a desert that, from time to time, floods have flooded rivers. We would lose one of the last sources of essentially healthy production in these areas and therefore the LSV would vote for this law. But, let's get this straight, not because we think it's a good thing it's being brought now, but because it's been extremely immoral not to vote for something we've been fighting for years and we think this is a good move forward, but I'm asking you not to wait this long to pass some law when the damage has already occurred, but to do it before it happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19049	Thank you, sir. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19050	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to say a few things, i.e. to look back at the previous two exhibits that are quite different from each other. Mr. Canak, I am extremely grateful and pleased with the support you are giving these amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land for a simple reason because this is how we protect the best interests of Serbian citizens, Serbian oracles, but on your question - why has this not been brought before? We can discuss this a lot. We've had time for this for four years. What is important is that at this point we have a bill with clear restrictive conditions, and I would link it to the previous debate before you, where it is stated that certain countries, I will paraphrase some "seven plus four", "eight plus three" had, however, but they also negotiated in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in time when they signed it. We didn't have that privilege, this is reality, and this is how we solve the problems and the negative heritage that occurred during this period of acceptance of the Association Stabilisation Agreement. What is also a fact, is that the Stabilisation Agreement includes a large body of social activities, largely affected, not just agriculture. There were many things Mr. Canak spoke of earlier, which contributed to a better quality of life for Serbian citizens. Why is this in agriculture like this? It stays for discussion and the fact is we don't have a transitional period. With these amendments to the law, we are making a ten-year moratorium to buy land from foreign natural persons as far as agricultural land is concerned in private property. What is also an observation concerning the quality of agricultural land, we are preparing a project of the Polish book, which exists in the Law on Agricultural Land and also longer deadlines for the lease of state agricultural land for those players in Serbia, who, by their agricultural production, especially livestock, can enrich agricultural land and improve its quality. That's necessary. We have to break up with the one-year lease of land, on which we are more or less pressed for restitution and some unresolved property-legal problems. I'd like to say one thing in the end about flood defense irrigation. You weren't in the afternoon when we talked about irrigation. Irrigation projects have been launched. Eleven projects are in this first phase. These are two-purpose systems for deforestation and irrigation. The fact is that in the previous period because of the lack of funds, 20, 30 years long, there was no channel building either, there was no channel maintenance and that is what the problem is. As for the flood defense, you're absolutely right. Everyone upriver on our rivers is protected. If the weather comes, the climate does its part and increases rapidly, that water has to go somewhere. It can be poured out in more ways. We were lucky to have happened in 2014 shooting defense systems upstream on Savi. On the other hand, the entire system of protection of the old Yugoslavia was based on the Sava River, in the Lonjsko field. At present, a natural retention project is under way in the Morović forests to save the river Sava from the state border. I was just talking about how important highways are for road traffic, how important it is to irrigate the defence against floods for agriculture and even to protect the assets that exist. Once you do something, if you don't keep it up, and if you let it depend solely on natural opportunities or problems, we're not so much of a rich society that we can only defend ourselves, whether or not it's going to be something, we have to invest in it, and it's going to be the intensity of this ministry, to maximum self-indulgence in the coming years or six-year period to at least put 300 thousand acres under irrigation seed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19051	National MP Nenad Canak, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19052	I'd just draw attention, Mr. Minister, to one thing. We don't have time to go into details right now. You mentioned irrigation. This is, of course, the condition of all the conditions of agricultural production, you just didn't mention which water will be irrigated because, in conditions of this kind of uncleaned water, it's better not to irrigate than to poison the soil with waste water that is uncleaned into the canals, as you know, because it's supposed to be adhering to foreign investors, and not just foreign investors, there are domestics who are completely deaf to any ecological regulations and norms, and no one can do anything to them. Finally, we come into a position where our channels are poisoned and we come into a position that just doesn't work. And that's why I'm showing great skepticism towards certain investments, big investment in livestock production with unresolved wastewater and waste dumps, because if this doesn't work out, we're going to be in a position to do a lot more damage than benefit from such a type of investment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19053	Thank you, Mr. Canak. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19054	I wasn't completely accurate. Of course, during my investments, we take care of the quality of water to be used in the irrigation system and that some projects are under way to solve the water treatment system. What I have to say is, I've never seen Sava cleaner than I've seen in years. I'm telling you, some things happen that are totally amazing. The reasons for that, we can get into them, but it's not just a topic. You're talking about Channel Danube-Tisa-Dunav and its pollution along the way. Projects under IPA projects are under way to address this system. The fact is, at this point, especially over there in the Tower and Vorbas area, we have big contaminants. It's a joint project, it's within the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, we've started, we've provided funds in this year to finish this job, not just for this, but for other projects, to clean up wastewater, and what I have to notice is that we've had some projects in different situations, there are also some MPs who were presidents of municipalities and mayors, that local self-government didn't meet their share of obligations, and we've come into the situation, especially in the water supply and treatment system of waste water, to get into trouble as a state and state intervened a few days ago, and we've made commitments to end these things, and the fact is that at that time local self-government are entering projects. We also have some other things about purification, where, for example, the lines for mud were not solved. What about them? He had such a wastewater purifier. Now we're working on it both this and next year these things will be solved.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19055	Mr. Canak do you think you've been misread or completed the question you've asked? Yeah. ) The word has a folk messenger, Nenad Canak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19056	Just to draw your attention, Mr. Minister, to the next thing you know, that when you accuse local self-governments of not doing anything, remember that by centralizing, as it is done in this country, local self-government has no money for it, and we have come to the point that the permanent poverty of local self-government and bringing them down to blame for everything that is wrong in this country, one harmful process of further centralisation that will lead to complete choking and economic and every other life outside of Belgrade, and that if this government goes that way, then it will be responsible for literally extermination of the three-quarters of the population of this country that does not live in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19057	The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19058	Just one comment. Thank you for letting me shoot at an empty goal. A month ago, the government identified funds within the finance ministry that would actually compensate those missing funds to local self-government to support co-financing, particularly projects related to water supply and eco-logy. We had one situation with the Morava water supply system where several local self-governments met their obligations, and some did not. I was the mayor myself. I've been involved in these processes. When some things you want to finish, you finish them, not just sign the contract and say, "I don't care about that." It's irresponsible to your environment in which you live. The funds were made, set aside in the budget for the co-financing system so that local self-governments would no longer be burdened to have separate money for it and also in the province budget the other day I spoke to counterpart Mirovic and the same funds provided for that purpose. The funds are already in the budget. I hear the 31st have budget rebalances. You can take a look.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19059	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been given by MP Hadji Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19060	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honored Citizens of Serbia, today we are talking about a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land and I believe that we will finally, in the coming time, discuss this issue, rather than other issues. We from the PUPS were anxious to come to the agenda of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly a bill like this that would partially correct the recklessly accepted request of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I can't help but feel like someone's been talking and negotiating. It doesn't matter who. We're not gonna talk about who's been talking and negotiating. It is neither the first nor the last time anyone will talk and negotiate and negotiate on behalf of the people and the state, but, dear friends, comrades and friends, ladies and gentlemen, brothers and sisters, for us from the PUPS and citizens of Serbia, it is important that this someone must always take care of the state interests and interests of the people and take care of what he signs. In this case, it wasn't like that... As is known, Serbia signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement in 2008 and is the only country that has accepted an obligation to liberalise the agricultural land market during the EU accession negotiations before becoming a full member. The Act confirming that Agreement in Article 63 literally states in point 2. "After the entry into force of this Agreement, Serbia will allow EU Member States to acquire property of real estate in Serbia and level them with the citizens of Serbia." The agreement entered into force on 1 September 2013 and the Agreement provides for the application of provisions of this Agreement on 1 September which equalises the rights of Serbian and EU citizens to purchase agricultural land. This opens the door for foreigners to buy agricultural land without any control. Are we gonna let that happen? Of course, we at PUPS won't accept it, and if we were wondering, we wouldn't even let our country's pedal go into the hands of strangers. Agricultural land is good for the general interest of the Republic of Serbia in Serbian citizens, also used for agricultural production and cannot be used for other purposes. The land is a unique and unrepeated resource of the Serbian state and should remain in possession of the state of Serbia and its citizens as such. Today, we are talking about a bill on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act that will restrict the purchase of land for foreign citizens, which is acceptable for us at the PUPS at this time. This bill prevented full liberalisation towards agricultural land, as foreseen by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. The solutions this law offers have been extorted and I wonder if it could have been better? Of course it could. Mr. Minister, let's fix this law with amendments. And we in PUPS as the ruling majority and responsible people will accept this law, although our position remains – not even the country's pedal to foreigners. I would like to point out that this proposal to amend and supplement this law has good solutions, first of all, I think of a newly decorated member of 72dj, especially these four points, which predict that the person who buys the land is permanently resident in the local self-government unit, where he or she needs to buy the land, processes at least three years of that agricultural land, has a registered agricultural household and a certain mechanism for the processing of that land. A somewhat good apartment of this law is certainly also preventing the purchase of land in larger quantities and allowing only two hectares to be bought and it is good that the Republic of Serbia has the right to prevent the purchase of private agricultural land. This stance should be complemented that not only the Republic of Serbia, but domestic legal and natural persons, owners of neighbouring parcels have the right to prevent the purchase of agricultural land in private property subject to legal work under Article 1(1). We, as you all know, are masters in finding holes in the law, and in this bill we cannot let such holes be. In law, EU Member States' citizens may obtain legal work with or without compensation under the conditions laid down in this law by private property, as set out in the Agreement. You today, Mr. Minister, have explained what will happen to the legal persons that will be formed. And I wonder what will happen to legal persons who will form a legal face tomorrow, and they are foreigners, because they will get the right to buy land as well as our legal faces. These are issues that we must resolve and possibly amend, that, besides citizens of EU Member States and all domestic legal entities, where they are owners or co-owners of foreign nationals, they should be put in the context of these conditions provided for in these points from 1) to (4). Also, I have submitted an amendment on this issue and I believe that this amendment will be accepted in the interest of protecting our citizens and our natural and legal persons. Since we have an obligation to pass a certain law which we have committed to implement the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, I believe Article 4 should be amended and the law adopted immediately the next day after adoption. The United Pensioners' Party of Serbia believes that the amendment and additions to the Agricultural Land Act have partly neutralised the devastating consequences of the 2008 Stabilisation and Association Agreement, given that other countries have fought in accession negotiations for the country's multi-annual ban on foreign sales and after joining the EU. There's been a lot of talk today. I would only mention some countries such as Slovakia or Croatia, have fought for a years-long land sale ban, while our neighbour Hungary, which should be an example of us, has banned foreign sales by the Constitution. This law addresses the issue of meeting the obligations of the Republic of Serbia taken on the basis of the SAA between the EU, their member states and the Republic of Serbia, and we as a serious state must adhere to the agreement. We at PUPS will only be satisfied if this law is corrected by amendments, given that 40.5% of our population lives in rural areas and lives on agriculture. We are always in favour of the status and material position of all socially endangered categories of the population, especially the rural population that has no conditions for normal life and for working in the country. We think, first of all, of 210 thousand agricultural pensioners who receive a pension of only 10,000. I ask all of you – can you live off a pension of 10,000? And if we bring that pensioner to the farmer even a buyer, then we can certainly think about how it's going to be. These two hectares that we predicted for sale to foreign citizens would be good if we could share or rent or use free of charge our young couples or farmers who want to process that country. I, Mr. Minister, will take the opportunity to say some other words concerning both the PUPS and the initiative proposed by Milan Krkobic, believing that you as Minister of Agriculture are also very responsible and interested in the functioning of both villages and agriculture. As is known, Mr. Milan Krkobic, President of the PUPS all the time as Director of the Post Office of Serbia, in addition to reorganising and stabilising JP Post-Serbia, has achieved a double and triple profit, which has partly entered the Republic of Serbia's budget, has led to special concern about the Serbian village. Namely, as Director of Post Office, 52 weeks a year, 52 mails, primarily in the rural area, thus allowing village residents to have post office services. At the very beginning of his ministerial existence, he launched an initiative -- a Serbian state in Serbia's villages, where he brought a postman to 11 towns and municipalities with local self-government, in 11 towns and municipalities, and brought a municipal official who provided services to the rural population. In that part, given that I was a participant in these activities, I saw great satisfaction from our fellow countrymen, especially young people. As he has time-consumingly promoted the view that there are no extra workers, but a lack of work, and within four years of his management he has not fired any worker of 15,000 workers, he is now promoting the view that every village must have six basic institutions to create conditions for normal life in the country, which are schools, hospitals, cooperatives, mail, home of culture and church and here we can all be together both as a state and as a government and ministries to help. That is why Mr. Milan Krkobic, after Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, is the most prominent and esteemed politician in Serbia's villages. Minister Krkobic, in charge of regional development, for equal regional development and the work of public and public-communal enterprises in Serbia, has launched a number of other initiatives that the government has partly adopted and will likely adopt in the coming period, which is particularly important, in addition to the support of the government of Serbia for these initiatives, Minister Krkobobic has also given support to the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Aleksandar Vukic, gave SANU, the Serbian patriarch, but gave the whole Serbian public. The Serbian government has adopted a programme to rebuild the Serbian village and thus we can bring back young people or keep existing young people in those villages. Only in this way will we avoid the present reality, dear gentlemen. There's nothing to do in cities, and there's no one to do in villages. Heavy living conditions, distance from cities, lack of roads, shops, schools, kindergartens, post office, pharmacy, and all other benefits that citizens in cities enjoy in the country. Not without reason, Mr. Risto Kostov in the list "Today" writes that a peasant becomes a gentleman. Unfathomable dream for Zahari Trnavčević directed by Milan Krkobibić. I'll quote a piece of Mr. Kostov's article. The new, very brave, very original for modern Serbia is that Minister Krkobic is already creating "croki" and hitting the foundations of a new agrarian reform that would also be a promotion of new social policy and new values in the village. In particular, to save the village, to start a long recovery process offers a solution that is hard to refuse, to offer young people from 20 to 50 hectares of the country for free processing and another 10,000 euros for each farmer in the agricultural land. By creating conditions for a better life in the country and for the retention of young people in the country, it plays an important and security role, given that many abandoned villages or villages with a small number of residents in the border area. May I have your attention, please? The earth and the woman are not left behind. An abandoned woman is unprotected. The abandoned land is defenseless. Mr Minister, I would ask you once again to fully support Mr. Krkobibic's initiatives, above all, to develop cooperatives as the basis for better agricultural production and productivity. Indicating state agricultural land to young couples, subsidising jobs in agricultural land, 10 thousand per job, and in the principle of subsidising jobs in some other branches, i.e. in the investment of some foreign and our investors, rebuilding and renovating the homes of culture, training on modern computers. I believe that you are in the government and that certain funds have been granted for all these activities. Now just these days, we've had a chance to open up two new cooperatives. The other day we had a press conference with these co-workers, cooperatives, and these people are too pleased with this initiative, and it's the only way we can keep young people in the country, possibly bring back some who want to deal with agriculture. We have a large number of agricultural domain experts and agronomists, and agricultural engineers, and veterinarians who are eager to engage on certain issues in these cases. To form cooperatives, I would only repeat and call on all interested citizens of Serbia living on agriculture, for a newly formed cooperative ministry or cabinet of Minister Krkobic gives up to 50,000 euros, and for old cooperatives up to 100,000 euros to restore agriculture and eventually employ a number of people. The Co-operation Development Programme received full support, first of all, from the Academy Committee for the SANU Village, and that is certainly a big deal, because I think about these initiatives by Mr Milan Krkobibić the whole state agreed, believe and opposition and position. That's the only way we can keep our young. Milan Krkobic is on the ground all the time. Since the government of the Republic of Serbia's Nis and decision-making to treat southeastern Serbia, i.e. these five administrative districts: Nisavski, Toplički, Pirotski, Pcinski, Jablanski, in particular. Mr. Milan Krkobic held a conversation and visited all the districts, spoke with all the presidents of the municipalities of Southeastern Serbia, and there are 41, made arrangements where local self-government will also participate with its programmes and with its capacities and in the formation of cooperatives, and in the restoration of homes, and in the division of land, so we must understand that this is a state project, a state task and as such we must support it. The other day I visited the Pcinj County, villages in Presevo, Bujanovac, Vranja and Vranjska Banja, and I can tell you that the picture is very dreary. Clubs, youth, cooperative homes, it's all very dreary and in bad shape. Please, given that eightm euros for the next three years have been granted to rebuild the cultural homes of Minister Krkobic's cabinet, I call on Culture Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic to provide security funds from his posts to help rebuild these homes. It's one of the preconditions for keeping the young. Rehabilitating and reviving the Serbian village, I will say another sentence, on Friday, in Nis, in the Assembly Hall, we have a tribune on this topic where all the presidents of the three districts – Pirotski, Nisavski and Toplicko will be present. Mr. Minister, if you have a representative you can send to Nis tomorrow, 12 o'clock, it would be our pleasure. After this debate and debate in particular, after improving the quality of this law through the adoption of certain amendments that we have proposed, the PUPS Group will support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19061	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19062	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, the honourable citizens of Serbia, today we have on the agenda another law that the Serbian government saves us from the threats that media-aware fears about us. Today we regulate the conditions under which we will very restrictively allow EU citizens to acquire property rights over our agricultural land when the farmer of agricultural land is our domestic citizen, so a natural person, in such a private transaction. The position of our parliamentary group is that before we regulated this problem to protect our agricultural land, we could do much more, and we didn't. In fact, we could pass regulations that would allow our farmers to buy state agricultural land under favourable conditions, to grow economically through the cooperative system, to strengthen competitively and to make such competitively strong answers to these threats of looting for our domestic agricultural land. With regard to their competitive forces and their empowerment, we were able to break up the buying, processing monopolies and cartels before that, we were able to consistently apply the laws to the various contaminants of the channel network. That's what the previous speakers said, and our citizens know, those who live by the canal networks, what these channels look like and know who's polluting them. Unfortunately, we have passed provisions of the Law on Agricultural Land, on the lease of 30% of the country at the level of local self-government for 30 years in favour of legal persons and investors. This lease is settled under a specific regulation. The regulation envisions the formation of a commission containing three ministers and the decision was put into the hands of the five-member commission. It shall decide on a long-term lease for 30 years under various general and specific criteria defined in that Regulation. The commission assesses which investment is more justified than another where there are no defined number criteria for one such broad term as the eligibility assessment. Here we have one discretionary decision based on some vague and unknown criteria. We will rent long-term agricultural land under the law of the rental championship for 30 years and according to certain specific criteria to be managed by the ministers in the commission when they decide on it, and let's say we have not defined how much it is worth in the overall dispute that some investor is highly ranked by reference, but for example it is only third in the number of new jobs that the investment will bring. So we have a number of criteria without their weight, without their weight as much as they're actually worth to us. So, let's say, we're going to give agricultural land where there's a huge contribution to investment, so I now quote: "to improving competitiveness and ensuring stable income and a stable environment on the domestic market". In which way anyone will prove that some investment contributes more to ensuring stable income on the domestic market than others. Ministers from the Commission can now ask us a question – in which ways will you prove that they will not? It's a legitimate question. Why am I saying this? Because we're talking about a law that protects our agricultural land from looting, allegedly, and at the same time, we give up to 30% of the country at the level of local self-government legal entities with investment plans for 30 years, 30 years is really a lifespan, 30 years is a serious long economic cycle for someone, especially for a domestic farmer who took loans to buy the machinery, so he's been denied the possibility of getting through public competition to this agricultural land that he previously purchased and who he also took loans to mechanize, he's going to be left with credits. The fact that a public call for the lease may be made is that any procedure does not make it transparent. The public call is only the beginning of the procedure, the procedure ends with the award of the benefits of long-term lease under the law of the 30-year championship only when the contract is signed, then the procedure is completed. Even then, there are other obligations that follow the contract. Therefore, only the publication of a public call and the possibility that everyone should report the procedure does not make it transparent. Especially interesting that the issue of the lease championship was treated in a report by the Ministry of Agriculture for the first quarter of this year in the work provided by the Agriculture Land Administration. In this report, in fact, as if it were the Department of Document Management, we do not see from that report how the state manages agricultural land, how much the rent-based income, which is based on which, in the first place, by the diameter of the lease, by livestock production, by public bidding, by this, by that. So we have a report listing the number of documents by type – processed so many contracts, so many annual programmes and plans etc. It's like a documentary management office. Furthermore, before all these provisions governing the right of EU citizens, we did not resolve irrigation, we did not ensure that our agricultural land rejected as much economic value as possible, regardless of climate conditions. We have budgeted only 2.47% of total budget expenditures and expenditures for agriculture, although 2.47%, if Article 8. The budget law and the 8,000-species famous exele, 43 billion dinars compared to 1,916 billion dinars, so when it comes to this, I would say that agriculture is budgeted by the Budget Law, because it carries 10 to 12% of our GDP, depending on the year. I would expect the Minister of Agriculture to make sure that the contribution of agriculture in the budget is as high as possible. This same budget law envisioned only 68 million dinars for the construction of a irrigation system under the Law confirming the loan agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Fund for the Development of Abu Dhabi. So, according to a famous agreement with the Abu Dhabi Development Fund, I only managed to find 68 million in the Budget Law on the name of the financing of irrigation projects and again in the first quarter ministry's report, I found no information on how the project is progressing. You did show pictures of certain investments for irrigation. These are, as you said, pictures of Al Ravapheda. I have to say, "Al Ravafedov" final account for 2016 at the APR has not been published yet, it is not available, it is not available. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Al Ravafed had 217 million dinars of losses, the APR announced. About the implementation of the irrigation project with the Abu Dhabi Development Fund in the first quarter report, I found nothing. The budget law provides, therefore, for the objectives set out in the law and they are very explicit, that a project implementation unit will be formed, that the project will be managed in accordance with good engineering and financial practice, that the principles of international public competition will be applied, that construction will be negotiated with local water companies and, then very explicitly, that 80 point stations will be built, 14% channels built, reconstructed, 92% of projected works implemented. These are the objectives laid down by the Budget Law. It may all be realised, but I would like as a MP and all of us here colleagues to have it written in the report, to make that report available to the public. I wish you only had a marketing problem, as I would say, that is, if it wasn't mentioned in the report, I hope that's all it is. The other thing is, we haven't protected our agricultural land from the city or we have, but I'd like to get counter-information about it. Namely, the Law on Defence against the City in Article 15 states that companies for insurance of 10% of the premiums contracted on behalf of the crop insurance should single out for the benefit of the Republic of Serbia's budget on behalf of anti-urban protection measures. This is a contribution to the Guarantee Fund of the Insurance Association and it would be useful to hear how these funds are available and what is concrete from that money invested in the defense of the city, because it is not about small money. If you take information on how much crop insurance was agreed in 2016 from the NBS site, 10% of it is about 2.3m euros. The Danube Insurance company itself notes in its final account that it has singled out 53m dinars for these purposes. So we're talking about 2.3m euros in funds collected to defend the city. A few days ago, we had a catastrophic situation in Gornji Milanovac, and everything was white, covered in ice. As far as the legal solution itself is concerned, the constitutional basis proposed by the proposer called for Article 97, points 9 and 12, so sustainable development, the Republic of Serbia shall arrange and ensure sustainable development of the system of protection and improvement of the environment, protection and improvement of the plant and animal world, the development of the Republic, policies and measures to promote even development, as a constitutional basis, could also be mentioned in point 7. which prescribes that the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides property and bonding relations and protection for all forms of property. The Law on Agricultural Land has been declared in accordance with Article 1 of the General Interest Act. The constitution also regulates the handling of goods of general interest and that is also something that should have been stated in the reasoning of the law as a constitutional basis, to see whether or not we have it, whether we can allow foreigners, EU citizens to buy the country or not. So, when it comes to goods of general interest and agricultural land is one of them, the Constitution stipulates that foreigners can gain the right of concessions on natural resources and goods of general interest, as well as other rights provided for by law. Thus, under the Constitution, natural persons can acquire the right of property over the good of general interest. He's also a relevant member of 88. The constitution that says that the use and availability of agricultural land is freely available and that the law can limit the forms of use and availability, so that it remains only unclear why the government is not complete on this constitutional basis, because it is a sensitive problem, so the threat that our agricultural land will be exposed in an overall purchase by foreigners who are only waiting at the border until July 1st, as if we do not know that they have been there all these years in form of legal entities with foreign capital, which did not buy very little agricultural land. To be honest, I would also ask the question of the very provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is referred to as the basis and as our obligation under which this provision of the law arises. Translation of Article 63(2) on the Serbian Chamber of Commerce site, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement says – over a period of four years from the entry into force of this Agreement, Serbia will gradually comply with its legislation on obtaining property over real estate in Serbia, in order to ensure that EU citizens receive the same treatment as their citizens. In a period of four years from the entry into force, we will ensure the same treatment. On the other hand, the proposer says, "In the four following years since the entry into force," I quote: "and this period expires on 1 September of this year, we should have gradually coordinated our legislation to ensure that EU citizens receive the same treatment. So, now, if we read what the Government has written in an explanation and we read the translation of the provisions of the Agreement from the Chamber of Commerce site, it is unclear whether we need 1.9 to provide EU citizens with the same treatment or 1.9. we need to start harmonising the law, so that the same treatment one day in the coordination process is finally provided. Whatever the interpretation is, we will certainly step out of this legal solution even in front of some current full-fledged EU members. We are certainly a pro-European party, but we believe that European values are first measured in the rule of law, in a thorough negotiation and a firm fight for the protection of their own interests, and then, afterwards, in a consistent implementation agreed. This is how it is written in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, when the translation is read and the argument of the Government is read, it really remains unclear. You know, regulations are written by lawyers, but they should be conducted by ordinary citizens and businessmen who are economists, as well as by engineers who are not lawyers. If they are unclearly written, then we as legislators have not done a good job. Whatever the interpretation is, we will, for example, step out in front of Hungary, which has been mentioned here several times today and which has constitutionally banned foreigners from buying land, but is neatly giving credit support to their new citizens who come from Vojvodina to buy land in Vojvodina. That's not the problem. On the other hand, we find the Republic of Croatia, which is a full member of the EU and which has made ownership of agricultural land impossible not only for us who are not in the EU, but also for foreigners who are EU citizens. In this way, we will bring our citizens into an unequal position, because a Croatian citizen under some, I agree, very restrictive conditions, agricultural land will be able to buy in Serbia, and that a Serbian citizen will not be able to do so in Croatia even when we become a full member of the EU and can't do so until then. So that's something we didn't get along well. Not to go into it now is it because the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is badly negotiated or not. A lot of international agreements are poorly negotiated. We could also finance protection from the city and irrigation systems from the mining rent under the Energy Agreement, under which NIS was released from the market value of the mining rent. We could've done a lot of things, but we didn't. It's just, somehow, that budget, it's like Alybe's straw, it's filled up like this, but it's infested all over the place. We do not have strategic thinking and are not consistent in managing public interest and public funds. One more thing that I find unhappi. The agricultural land law on the alienation of agricultural land regulates only one specific part of the transport of that type of property, so to speak. So, the situation where he's a state salesman, and the buyer is a domestic physical person. That's what the Agricultural Land Act regulates. We are now in this law and in this part of it that regulates only this, we have added only one member of the law that regulates another sub-class of agricultural land transport, between the domestic natural person and EU citizens, and we have changed the title to prejudge as if we are going to fully regulate the transport of agricultural land. Transport of agricultural land is not regulated only by the Agricultural Land Act, it is regulated by the Bond Relations Act, if you will. He's also regulated by the Real Estate Act. He was also regulated by the Law on Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations, in which, by the way, for the rights of foreign citizens to acquire property over real estate, the principle of reciprocity is envisaged. Why did we not also provide for the principle of reciprocity in the proposal for this legal solution? I'm going back, for example, to the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the right to acquire property over agricultural land is not equally regulated in all EU Member States. We give conditions to acquire ownership of our agricultural land to citizens of the EU and, however restrictive, there will be some conditions, where we will find someone from Croatia, in which we cannot buy anything, someone from Hungary will come to us, in which we cannot buy anything. So the principle of mutuality is, in my opinion, the thing that is seriously lagging behind. We'll try to amend that. Finally, the message of our parliamentary group for this part of the principle debate is – it is not a threat to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, it is not our agricultural land that foreign citizens are going to encounter, it is not even cheap, it is not our investment climate in particular, so that everyone is going to run here, but we repeat, we did not negotiate the Stabilisation and Association Agreement well, we could have done better. Our elected representatives have not adequately protected the public interest and interest of the citizens of this country. This is now let's do what needs to be done, to save what can be saved. So much for now from our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19063	Thank you very much. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19064	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I would like only to brief a few comments on the previous presentation. The only thing I would agree to is this in the end, and that is that we are now treating the consequences of poor SAA negotiations on the liberalisation of trade in agricultural land. It's a fact and this is actually the medicine that we have right now. I'm going to connect it to that story that you've potentiated about the treatment. Treatment and conditions are not the same and it should be made clear. You have tried to connect a few other things in your presentation, but what is a fact is that this is how we regulate, and this is about an international agreement between the EU on the one hand and the Republic of Serbia on the other, which is an overall EU observation, not every single member of it. This is when it comes to natural persons here regulated, give special conditions and we have maximum protection of Serbian interest, as much as we could, in accordance with this negotiated Stabilisation and Association Agreement. One thing you mentioned earlier about investment, the transparency of the agricultural land giving process is 30 years. There's only one thing I have to say, it's not about investment in primary agricultural production, it's about what has, in its end, so-called. “food processing” means the processing industry. The procedure has been absolutely transparent, since its beginning with the adoption of the law, regulation, public call, the whole procedure, notification and conclusion of the contract. Today during the debate, I talked about the results of this process. I don't know if you've been here, I'm sorry if you haven't heard. In any case, the report that will be submitted to the committee responsible will produce the results, as well as the irrigation systems financed from Abu Dhabi. This year, around 15m euros to 16m euros from the total amount of the loan will be used. So, eleven projects will be realised that way and there's no dilemma and no one's hiding anything. Everything will be as transparent as this procedure was. In December, I listened to stories here that everything would be according to the system of arrangements. No public calls, no one does what they want. We've proven that we're working completely transparently and there's no dilemma at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19065	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19066	Thank you. I thank you for your response, and I agree that you will try to implement it, or I agree with your conclusion that you intend to implement the lease championship procedure transparently, but the regulation which it is regulated is, as I would say, making decisions based on undefined criteria. How will you evaluate a project that is first-ranked by the number of employees and third-ranked, if you can even rank the criteria, contribute to the development of economic development in the local community? How are you even going to quantify? What are you going to say, this three-pound project contributes to the development of the economic local community, and this two-and-a-half? Well, then you're going to say -- if you're second-placed by this criterion, first-placed by this, then you're generally first-placed, or how? I've been reading the regulation thoroughly, and I really don't understand how you're going to define these lax criteria, which are completely qualitative, without even one ranking figure, how are you going to implement it? I would very much like to see this ranking list, and I urge it to be an integral part of the next report by the Ministry of Agriculture. Because, you know what, the provisions in which decisions are made without quantitatively defined and precisely defined criteria, such provisions are deeply corrupt. I don't want to accuse anyone here of corruption, but you know what the proverb says - an opportunity makes... I don't want to risk hurting the Rules of Procedure right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19067	The word is Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19068	Just a brief one remark on this. Not only will you be able to have a report on the cases that are approved, or not approved, but you can obtain complete documentation on each case, analysis of each project. I'll just remind them, they're competing for the space of a local self-government, if there are two projects that are in the same space, they can be quantified the way you're talking. It's a possibility of insight, and it'll be available to everyone. The same thing we told people from the Restitution Network, we have nothing to hide in this. Our goal is one, it's to get as many projects in the processing industry as possible and to have as much value per hectare as possible investment. That's all, and it'll be in the report. You don't have to doubt for one second. I wouldn't even comment on this second part.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19069	The word is made by the National MP Snježana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19070	Dear Presidents, Mr. Ministers with Associates, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, the theme of this assembly's parliamentary debate is extremely important. We could say that at the very top is a priority and highly sensitive topic of every serious and responsible society. This is also understandable because agricultural land is good of general interest, limited and non-renewable natural resources. The resources we inherited from our ancestors and the resources we borrowed from our descendants. Agricultural land is the cornerstone of Serbian agriculture, agriculture that has been the breadth of Serbian economy for decades and an integral part of social policy, a guarantee of social peace, security and the existence of a large part of our population. That's how it used to be. He's been there today. Today, around 19% of Serbia's total employees, so every fifth, work in agriculture. The contribution of agriculture to the Serbian economy remains high. I'll just list some of the indicators. The value share of agricultural and food products in our country's total GDP is about 10%. Last year was almost 15%. In total exports, agricultural and food products participate with around 22%. In addition, our agriculture is the only branch of Serbia's economy that has been recording foreign trade surpluses for years, and it has been growing year after year. For example, the foreign trade surplus for agricultural and food products in 2014 was slightly higher than a billion euros, in 2015 it was 1,200 billion euros, and last 2016 it was a record 1,600 billion euros. When these indicators add that the total value of Serbian agrarian production in 2016 was higher than five billion euros, it is clear that Serbian agriculture is on the right track and that in the future, along with hard work and even greater investment, in line with the objectives and direction of development contained in the 2014 Strategy, it will record better and better results. Agricultural land is our natural wealth, a huge resource for the development of agriculture, as well as the overall economic prosperity of the Serbian state. The Republic of Serbia has about five million hectares of agricultural land, some 3.5 million hectares of which are oranics and gardens, orchards and vineyards, and about 1.5 million hectares of meadows and pastures. In terms of ownership structure, about 20% of available agricultural land or about a million hectares is in public, i.e. State property, of which about 830,000 hectares, according to data from the Republic Geodetic Institute is land identified as cadastrian plots, while about 200,000 hectares is land still held as social, cooperative, mixed property land and the like. The remaining 80% or nearly four million hectares are private property, i.e. private ownership of natural and legal persons. So far, land policy legislation has been mainly referred to as state-owned agricultural land. For example, in 2015, the Law legally regulates matters of protection, regulation and use exclusively of state-owned agricultural land was adopted. With the new draft law, the 2015 Law is practically complemented by legal regulation and some issues that are being beaten by agricultural land and now exclusively agricultural land in private property. In addition, I would like to point out that there have been many reasons why the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2015, on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection, proposed a law as a legal framework for introducing order in the practice of using state agricultural land. I'm going to remind you of just a few reasons, which were, uh, the irrational use of this natural resource, that is, a small share of legally issued land in the lease and a large portion in the so-called gray zone. Major irregularities, not urgency, abuses in the use of state agricultural land and, as a consequence, huge economic losses both for the country and for agriculture. The estimated damage at that time was dozens and dozens of millions of euros per year and was directly reflected in the lower allocations for agriculture, both from the republican and regional budgets and from the budgets of local self-government. Although it has only been two years since the law was passed, the positive effects of its application have been visible. Today, almost all local self-governments are up to date in the adoption of annual programmes for the protection of the arrangements and use of state agricultural land. The deadlines, the procedures, the public bidding, the renting of this land are respected. Small farmers are equally involved in bids and now have much more opportunities to rent state agricultural land than they were before. In addition, significant increases in rent revenues were made, and thanks to this largely, larger funds from the republican agricultural budget could be allocated for 2017. In addition to that 2015 law, it is very precise and clear that it excludes any possibility for a foreigner to buy agricultural land that is state-owned. All legal solutions under this law, and only some of them I have looked back, have been detained and have not been amended in the new bill. The reasons for the new amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act that we are discussing today, as explained in detail in the draft law, stem from the SAA signed by Serbia with EU member states in 2008. By signing this agreement, Serbia has taken the obligation, among other things, to allow EU citizens to purchase agricultural land in Serbia on the same terms as Serbian citizens since 1 September 2017. No doubt, this part of the agreement is extremely poorly negotiated. Today, we regret that the negotiators at the time did not agree with much more wisdom and responsibility for our agricultural land to liberalise trade when Serbia became a full member of the EU, as other countries did in the accession process. Instead, by signing the agreement, deadlines for its implementation have also been specified. So those who have unaccounted for and signed the Agreement, not caring for natural goods and resources, have denied us the possibility and protection of dignity and pride, because we will be the first country to have full membership in the EU in general to consider the issue of selling agricultural land to foreign citizens. Of course, there is also a legitimate question, could we change the Agreement after its ratification, and the last ratification was in 2013, and thus delay the adoption of this law, of course, I mean the part concerning agricultural land. Unfortunately, the amendments to the Agreement, with the eventual acceptance of, in that sense, the EU's negotiations also required agreement and ratification from all 28 Member States of the Union. It is clear that due to these EU procedures and our ability to make any changes to be minimal. Nevertheless, the competent institutions of the past few years have made a number of efforts to postpone the deadline on 1 September 2017. So let's say the Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection in 2015, when I led the ministry, did a detailed analysis of Serbia's commitments to liberalise trade in agricultural land and in this respect, a detailed analysis of potential problems and the risks of institutional and legislative alignment with the provisions of the Agreement. In addition, the Ministry has prepared a comparative representation of different legal solutions as examples of good practice from countries that have managed to preserve their agricultural land in state property or owned by their citizens. All of this has served us as a good argument that the issues in question, trade in agricultural land, are being launched on the negotiating group of four dealing with freedom of movement of capital. Due to the outstanding arguments by the representatives of our ministry, the negotiating group four for professional and independent expertise by experts, she hired experts, two of our scientific institutes – the Institute of Economic Sciences and the Institute for the Economics of Agriculture. I believe their analysis of opinions and recommendations has been used by the current minister and his associates in the preparation of the bill. So, clearly, the government faces Serbia's international commitment, deadlines and also the obligation to protect domestic national interests, in this case to keep the agricultural land as far as possible owned by our citizens and Serbian hosts, the law we are discussing today proposed. The proposed law permanently regulates the conditions under which natural persons, citizens of EU countries can acquire ownership of agricultural land in Serbia, which is now in the private property of our citizens. The conditions prescribed are strict and for all those interested in buying land under this law, it will be difficult to meet. In addition, the proposed law provides for the right to prevent the purchase of agricultural land by the Serbian state. It is also proposed to form a special commission, a government commission that will deal with the realisation of this right. We MPs believe that the right to buy agricultural land by the Serbian state is a good and important solution to protect domestic national interests, when it comes to agricultural land, because we support all the measures that will contribute to keeping our agricultural land owned by our citizens and owned by Serbian hosts. In addition to this solution, we also suggest that the government, the state, form a special fund that will be exclusively for the purpose of buying agricultural land that perhaps our natural persons would offer to sell to any foreign citizen. I believe this fund can be financed, not only from the budget, but from donations, gifts and various other sources. Fund funds, therefore, and through the use of the right to cross-purchase by the Serbian state, would be preserved, as the state would offer this agricultural land for sale and would become a state resource. Our proposal is also to buy this kind of agricultural land that would now be in state property, the state offers to use without compensation for young farmers who want to stay in the country, to increase their ownership and their agricultural production. Also, the SPS parliamentary group has yet another proposal to supplement the law in the form of an amendment. In fact, we believe that the law should be complemented by a provision prohibiting the sale of agricultural land within a 10km border belt. We believe that this would be an extremely important measure of security and the protection of state interests, the protection of the state border. Otherwise, such a safeguard measure is prescribed by the still applicable Agricultural Land Act and applies to state agricultural land and to our citizens, and it is therefore logical that the same restriction, i.e. the same prohibition, applies to agricultural land that is private and which may potentially be sold to natural persons, to EU citizens. We believe that these proposals can help improve the quality of the law, that the government will seriously consider them and of course, that we expect them to be accepted. For this reason, the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19071	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19072	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS parliamentary group supports the proposed amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act, which we have already highlighted during today's debate and I am taking the opportunity to say it again. We support the proposal because this proposal, in a really great way, we achieve two good things at the same time and there are no dilemmas and there is no choice between this and that and one or the other. We are truly both good and useful for this country and for its citizens at the same time. The first thing, we meet our international obligation, and there has been a lot of talk about it today, and there will be stories and the next days, certainly, a commitment arising from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States on the one hand, and the Republic of Serbia on the other. The state’s responsible conduct implies respect for these international obligations and in the right opposite of what many on the contrary have suggested to us, and many who are neither in the O.R. nor in the country. Okay, it was August of the month and it was going on, as they say from Brion to Lebanon, and some of them are still listening there, taking care of workers' rights and the general state of the country with exotic beaches, but let's do a little work. They suggested that those obligations arising from international agreements should not be respected, they even used expressions such as "banana state", "diletarian", etc. You see, that's exactly what you could say about those who don't understand and respect those international obligations. We understand and respect them and thus fulfill through a proposal like today. On the other hand, take care of something that is the fundamental interest of the country's citizens to which those who do not support European integration in any way in any way, but still do not consider anything that has anything to do with Serbia and Europe at the same time useful for this country. You see, these protection measures, which relate to the introduction of obligations for someone who is not a citizen of Serbia, and who intends to possess as a natural person agricultural land that stems from private property, the introduction of certain conditions that must be met as binding conditions is a certain measure of protection. And yes, we're doing that with this proposal. That the proposal is sufficient evidence is also the course of the debate. Now I can say with great certainty that we will support this law and we will vote for it, after the debate has ended in detail because it has become more than clear what we can hear, or what we cannot hear as any counter-argumentation. It has been quite fun to watch as they weigh from the stained vessels, some to explain themselves are for European integration but are not about meeting obligations in this regard or that they are about to protect Serbian citizens, but they are not about to adopt a law that is just about to implement that protection. More than fun to watch certain get involved as a chicken in the house, they try to draw a conclusion, and it does not exist, nor can it be when it is handled in this way. But because of citizens who see this, that we understand each other, our appropriate interest is always in Serbia's first place and in this sense Serbia's interest is to continue its European integration and to protect the citizens of Serbia when this interest is achieved simultaneously on two tracks, it is only double good. Whoever doesn't understand it can just keep trying to find the right explanation why he's against it, but he won't find it, he's seen it today. There have been various comments today. For example, comments – can it be put on the burden of the parliamentary majority, above all SNS in it, can it be put on the burden of the Serbian Government, can it be burdened on the president of the state, Alexander Vukic, anything that is not good, de facto, regarding the Stabilisation of Association Agreement? So we respect the Agreement, we take seriously our obligations, but no, that's not why we don't say – people, it wasn't all great, there were serious problems. And these serious problems concern the question of how this Agreement was negotiated, when it was negotiated in 2008 and in what form was signed by those who were then hurried to create something that would be a sufficient sound result in the pre-election period, so in that haste they forgot what among others and those provisions that would be called protection clauses and that would allow all those on the other side who had long and wide talk – how could Croatia delay the application when it comes to the right to owning agricultural land? How could Slovakia? How could Poland? Because they had some people who were negotiating this Agreement seriously, and we had a dossal bullulment at the time. Unfortunately, Serbia, we had full political amateurs, who didn't do something everyone else could do, didn't find it appropriate, as far as they knew, or as they could, that's enough indicator. There was a question – what is not done by Croatia? Here is one look at the content of this Agreement as it was formed and signed by Croatia or on the other side of the Agreement, as it was formed and signed by Serbia at the time of 2008, i.e. its name Bozidar Djelic, a famous gold pen, probably boasting today. I think he said he wasn't going to wash his hand in life where that pen held it. When you look at a member who defines this particular issue, the question we are dealing with today through this law, you see in the Serbian Agreement a sentence – acting on the force of this Agreement, Serbia will allow EU citizens to acquire property over the real estates in Serbia, with full and comprehensive application of existing procedures. There's nothing further in this sentence. It starts the next one that talks about four years of preparing the appropriate legal framework. Look at the same member, not the same regular number, but a member of the same content in Croatia and there you can see that it does not end the sentence in the same place, but has some addition. It says – the application of the existing procedure, except for the areas and issues listed in Appendix seven, and then you find what is Appendix seven, and there it says – the exceptional areas are agricultural land in accordance with the Law on Areas protected by the Nature Protection Act. When it is incorporated into the Agreement, then it can, when four years are up and four years from the moment of entry into force, talk to Brussels, so let's say -- we left there simply to talk, let's do it now, so we get an additional number of years. When dilettically harmful is done, as it was done in 2008, another great regret for the citizens of Serbia in our case is different, but times change. Someone comes to take care of a country that really cares about the interests of citizens and who can do it, so for example, it forms a proposal like what we have before us today. What is the "de facto" resulting from the adoption of such a law? That we're going to have these consequences that we can't agree on yet, because they're a total disaster or they don't matter. Today, the same people are saying both things at the same time. We will discuss this in particular, that these consequences, whatever they may be, will take place in 10 years from today by adopting the law. So, the deadlines of today's entry into force of the law, so there's a condition, we're talking again about these protection measures, that if someone is not a citizen of Serbia, has to be kept for 10 years in the local self-government unit in which he wants to do legal work, to deal with the three-year processing of that land that's the subject of business, that for 10 years he's been in status, without interruptions registered for dealing with certain activities, to own both machines and certain equipment, so all of this is measured by some time frames, according to our bill's proposal as much as from the moment of entry into force. Ten years wherever you see it will count from that day. It is also a responsible question – why are we doing this today? Well, when's the better time? It took us four years ago, so that in practice it would come down to the moment of entry into force of six, because we've already used four. Where's any logic? The right moment is now. The real solution is this. This solution is applied by member states, many of them in different forms and with a shorter list of deadlines. But what is fundamentally known and should not be controversial, the fact that we have not received any negative comments from our partners in Brussels today on this proposal. I think that's enough. Now, those who did not, apparently, even read the Stabilisation Association Agreement, see this on the basis of those unmistakable attempts to quote Article 135, who did not read the bill either, it was seen by what they had to say on the subject of restitution and this law, in other words they did not read those European solutions that comment, because that they would not say about Hungary and its law what they said today, about one thing they agree on, it is not important why they are against the law and they are against the law together with all those who share values. What kind of values? It will also be discussed for sure in the next period, we Europeans know that they are not. It seems that they have long been replaced by street values, or some hope that political happiness or what luck they will find for certain through street activities and conquering the authorities on the street. It is not a European value, and it will be that there is no more interest in anything European or any value other than fighting for power, even the street. People who bear direct responsibility for the SAA and its unilateral application, which no one has asked for, and what again seemed to be a certain damage, we have the right to say, have tried and tried to try and try to bring all the troubles they have caused to the governments that have led this Serbia here since 2012. Why? I think it's explained enough in one great mind, a recently published man who belongs to a political council. Whether it's a parent yellow company or some of its variants, I can't send it out either, but that thought is -- it doesn't matter what it is, it's important what perception is, so it's no wonder they behave the way they behave, what they seem to be used to, and what they seem to be unable to provide anything better. So, it doesn't matter what anyone is guilty or responsible for, it's important what impression he's managed to create, including the one who got the chance to take care of this country in 2003, 2005, 2007, 2009 and then allowed some tycoons or, even more interestingly, foreign owners through domestic legal persons to own the country. They're complaining about it today, he's having a hard time with it today, and he can't live with it, and he personally bears responsibility or credit, however you want, but whatever it is, then it didn't bother him, today he's having a terrible time, and he's trying to forget what his personal role is in all of it. That's how irresponsible people behave. On the other hand, those who really care about the country act responsibly and find a solution. They find a solution, for example, like this bill that he won't be able to find anything at all as controversial as we talk here in principle tomorrow or in particular on Monday, whenever you want. He is responsible for those who care about order and peace, about the opportunities in the country, who are not trying to cause panic, who has alerted those on call critics of everything and everything, eager panic, eager riots and riots in 2016. Don't scare the citizens of Serbia. Nor shall any man take the land with him, nor shall we be a upright and solid partner if we avoid our obligations. Speak, warn, it wasn't worth it. The consequences, of course, always exist. When there are no others and more difficult, and it is good when they are gone, is it political and because they have shown such a relationship with the country because they have been so successful in their business, they have bright ones today, as someone, 1.4%, and someone 2.29%, and when they mention KIM, it is probably because there is even less, 2.1%, some 5%, so less than a million euros invested in elections, etc. All the phenomenal results themselves, deserved to be. At the very end, we will talk tomorrow and again in details of what is good and useful when it comes to European integration for our country and our people. There's plenty of that. But since the question has been raised, which is beyond the context of European integration, just as well as the protection measures we are proposing today, another perhaps interesting information for our citizens. The study, which was built from the price of GIZ and the Government of Serbia, i.e. the Office for European Integrations, discussed scenarios, could be found, different possible scenarios on how to resolve this issue of property rights when it comes to agricultural land and for each of the scenarios that existed as models, the following is concluded -- the benefits are undeniable, higher productivity, higher exports and higher land prices. So maybe there's going to be some kind of accessibility sequences, but these three things are definitely going to go into plus. Depending on the selected scenario, greater or smaller dynamics, or intensity, but it will be plus. This bill, when compared with the analysed scenarios, represents the best choice from each of the options considered. These are, therefore, direct benefits to our citizens. Those who are responsible for his job are guided by these benefits, are conducted by analyses, numbers, results, empirical data and what some on the other side of the hall will never be able to understand, the interest of Serbia, because it is the most important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19073	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19074	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been patiently listening today, especially to former regime members, and I must say that I shared with some of them in the 1990s when agriculture and farmers, mostly peasants and combines, when we expected that, when we got democracy and the market economy, when we endured the burden of military and economic pressures on our country, that after the change, some new government would bring it back to us. Instead of democracy and market economy, here, the culprits recognize themselves, we got monopoly and crime. Monopol did corruption and corruption ate the country. You have countries without democracy, but there is no democracy without a state. The expectations that agriculture would be compensated for losing in the 1990s were in vain. Instead of happening, they appeared so-called. tycoons, hillbillies from the city. It has sold huge areas of agricultural land, and often for three euros. Let me remind you of the Kovačica case, 164 hectares, plus the sugar bar, plus the three-euro equipment. When we divide that, the hectare and the price, we get less than two Eurocents. I don't count sugar, I don't count equipment. Their only account was the bank account of politicians who were corrupt and their co-workers who allegedly bought faxes, so they were obliged to sell them three sugars for three euros. This gentleman of the former regime, when we passed the law on agricultural land, this gentleman who will soon leave, I showed a photograph of the late prime minister and owner of the "MK Group", who, behold, bought three sugars per three euros. The answer of the young gentleman to me was that I wanted to criminalize the late Prime Minister with this photograph. I never claimed the other gentleman was a criminal. I claimed he bought cheaply what was ours and everything became theirs and his, that he only bought three sugars for three euros, that he bought huge agricultural complexes cheaply. Speaking of the "MK Group", the famous lender of Rodić and "Kuriru", the one on a gift, minority, apparently financing and trying to finance the collapse of the government, I must say that what they did not sell to him later, they replaced the agricultural land he bought and which was bad for agricultural land along the highways. He gave worse land to 1,200 acres, and he got better land. One of these plots ended for the famous "Energo Green". That looks about like this. Buy 300 euros a hectare in privatisation and then these tiny parcels and jars that you don't like substitutes for the state, of course, against the law and I believe that while the law is still in place and that this will end and that the perpetrators of these things will be punished. So, you get in the tiny plots you bought but why, and then you get a good complex by the highway and then you sell three acres for 700 thousand euros, and a whole combination of seven thousand and a few acres you paid two million. So, what you bought for 300 euros, you resell for 100, 200, 300 times the price. After this wonderful predatory privatisation, which they have completed by replacing the land, I am obliged to say who they are to whom we allegedly sold the land. This happened before 2012: “MK Group” - 28,500 hectares, Delta - 25,000 hectares, Matijević – 28,500 hectares and the last one was Đorđe Nicović – 18,000 hectares. Foreigners owned by Serbia by 2012 were "Baltic Property Investments", "Agrokor Croatia", "CBA Hungary", "Zito Group Croatia". Today, those who face such privatisations are talking about us selling the country to foreigners, those who negotiated the SAA, and this is the account of Kostunica's government that initialled the agreement and the government of Boris Tadic or Mirko Cvetkovic, who signed the agreement, and the Assembly ratified it. What did they want with that? That those who bought the cheap land bought over 300,000 hectares for less than 50m euros, plus the facilities came. They didn't just buy the land, they bought the storage facilities. So, the great Bosko Pernar, who talked about it, needs to know that using that party that did it, the remains of that party, he entered this parliament. He was obliged to tell us that it happened then, that the country was sold to foreigners, that it was sold to the budget, that 300,000 hectares were sold for 50m euros, less than 200 euros per hectare. The lady at the Land Administration knows it's an average rent today for a hectare a year. They've sold it at all times, for a bargaining price. The rest of the state agricultural land was mostly usurped. The land management since the law was passed, when someone was waving a crutch here, has increased the land fund that you've leased for 60,000 hectares. They claimed there was no usurped land. You, ma'am, were there, but it turns out there was one. We found usurpators all over Vojvodina and Serbia, and we managed to get 60,000 in, and the rent for that 60,000 is 10m euros. Now I'm asking those who left -- who's been picking up those 10 million euros for years since 2007, until we changed the law in 2015? And we know under what circumstances we've changed the law here, where we've introduced into the law that state agricultural land can't buy anyone but domestic farmers, up to 20 acres. Today we add this second part -- that foreigners can't even buy private land unless they're 10 years resident in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, if they don't have agricultural land for 10 years, they don't process the country for three years and they don't have complete machinery. Only under these conditions can a natural person and a stranger buy land. As far as legal persons are concerned, gentlemen Privatizers, you look like those to me, there's that -- without sowing, there's no harvest, and your policy that you've been leading, 2007, in 2008, you tried to legalize that robbery, so that those who bought the country increase their wealth even more. You look to me like the people who ate the seeds, not the people who planted something, but the people who planted the seeds, and today you would like to eat what we sowed, to take away and eat. While you are already objecting to these foreign companies, I ask you who is the founder of the "MK Group"? Whose company is this? Can the laws act retroactively? This asset ‘MK Group’ has been sold. Let me remind you who the founder of the "MK Group", you sold them the land. It says: “Agriholding AG” country of Switzerland. The second founder is “Vitcorn” Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Let's go "Sunoko", they're the ones who bought the candy, the founders -- "Nortagri" the Netherlands. Let's move on, the Veterinary Station even belonged to the Cayman Islands, Carnex, also the Cayman Islands, Ashmore Carnex Limited. They're the founders. Do you expect us to cancel your privatisation now? I'd like that if the laws allow it. On the matter of legal persons, if you want to, it must change a number of other laws. But are you saying that you've had a bad solution so far? We're just correcting your mistakes. You adopted the SAA. You negotiated him, not us. We're removing that mistake, because some of the countries that have been negotiating have been negotiating for 12 years, 11 years. We were lucky that Lithuania was a little late, so it came September 1st this year. And those 10 years we've been introducing is what you haven't done. Please forgive us all your mistakes. With that in mind, to all citizens who have survived monopolies, corruption and crime and the former regime, I want to say that they should receive the prize for life's work, because to survive such a joint criminal enterprise, and I claim that it was committed in terms of agriculture and agricultural land, combinations and cooperatives, because when they bought the combinations, they bought the ransom cells and sucked the blood of the peasants on a straw. It's a product of your work. We have to remove it now. They bought storage facilities to pick up the warehouse and manipulate it. One more thing, they kicked the cattle out of all the farms. The livestock industry is almost gone, and the workers who took care of the cattle fired. Then the slaughterhouse industry ran out of raw materials, so you fired the workers there. That's how 400,000 jobs went missing, but that's why you hired 78,000 people in the public sector. That's why I'm saying that everything you've done in agriculture and the processing industry has been a joint criminal enterprise, and besides the Life's Work Award, which should be given to citizens who have survived such a regime, I'm going to give you, members of the former regimes of various colors, one medal for courage, not because you're not afraid of anything, but because you're not ashamed of anything. I'm paraphrasing Ducic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19075	Thank you. We're moving on to the list. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19076	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with proposings, ladies and gentlemen MPs, amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act that we are discussing today are a very important mechanism that we expect to deliver good results and begin to eliminate the catastrophic consequences of the previous regimes in this sector. In particular, this catastrophic operation of DS in this segment was felt in the Sandzak cities during the privatisation of agricultural giants, but not just them. Former workers "Vojin Popovic" from Novi Pazar, and especially the Agricultural combination "Pester" and today more than a decade of these privatisations, to which the DS regime and local Sanjah regimes of the time failed to exercise their rights. So I'm going to take the opportunity to give you some of the suggestions that the Sandzak Workers of these combinations have sent to us from the People's MPs of the Bosniak Democratic Union. Namely, PIC "Pester" was privatized in 2006 and then one of the returnees from Canada became the owner of 70% of capital, while the workers remained 30% of all shares as minority owners. In this way, he owned 1,200 hectares of land with all the accompanying facilities for only 630,000 or 525 euros per hectare and the obligation to pay them in six years of war. It is about land previously confiscated from peasants and handed over to PIC "Pester" for management, therefore, the subject is further restitution. During the period followed by the new owner, land that had to be returned to the peasants with the blessings of local and then republican authorities turned into building land and sold to third parties, such as the cadastrian plot 118 in Sjenica, etc. Medares, or, say, sell 55 acres at the Wild River site for just 114,000 dinars per hectare. All this agricultural land has been converted into urban, construction and on this previous sold land, mostly mortgage loans from the Development Fund and then the Agrobanke. It also sold land that the Ministry of Agriculture has given students of the Sjenica Secondary Technical School for use and, of course, in addition to all these sales, it has remained liable to PIC "Pester" workers over 26 months of earnings, with taxes, contributions, not certified medical books, not having the right to treatment, nor to social assistance. So, all this happened thanks to bad privatisations most at the time when DS conducted these terrible and bad privatisations, especially in Sandzak cities, and this is an opportunity to make such things correct and also appeal to you, ministers to help the remaining PIC “Pester” workers at least pay social contributions and overtures of health books. Of course, what is still characteristic and what should be done in the next period is that on this very agricultural land in Sjenica, three parks have been made, a national park, which has also been threatened by agricultural producers, because on this land some kind of culture can not be grown and this leads to even more difficult situations compared to their standard of living and this threat they had without having been returned to them by the communist regime and, of course, later on DS Bud why they sold. The people of the Cave have lost their basic income and the ability to feed their families and thus enable them to live normally in that area that has always been threatened during the winter period, were in the summer period, and therefore this is a good opportunity for these amendments to the law to be regulated and these forgotten workers are helped and, in the case of the Cave, to learn how to never bring our agricultural land into this position again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19077	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19078	Thank you very much. In the announcement of this session and this law is a story, a marketing campaign to prevent foreigners from buying the Serbian country. That, Minister, is what you wanted to say to the Serbian public both in the period before today and today's debate. It's just not true and you know it. I appreciate your efforts to make yourself tell the truth, but it's not working out for you, yet you're a little different from some of the other colleagues you have in your government. So, the aim of this law, says the power of Alexander Vukic, to prevent foreigners from buying the Serbian country. Can this be achieved by this law on amending the law? Of course he can't. First of all, we have an incompetent minister here. The issue of property is hardly in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture. It could be either the Property Directorate, maybe the Department of Justice, maybe the Ministry of Finance, but I don't know what agriculture has to do with ownership of agricultural land. That's where they pushed you into an awkward position. What's going on? A day today, like a year ago, and after this law, every stranger from any country to come, whether it is the EU, whether it is Russia, whether it is Arab countries, anyone, Croatia, can come to Serbia and buy a Serbian country. How? By establishing a company with 10, 50, 100 euros invested and then becoming a domestic business entity that can buy the country according to positive legal regulations. This means that Thompson, a well-known Ustasha singer from Croatia, can come to Serbia, start a company with 100% foreign capital, call that firm Thompson "I love Serbia" and participate in agricultural land transport with the company "I love Serbia". Can you stop this by law? No, you can't. Haradinaj, Thaci and Pacolli, your old and new coalition partners in both the Kosovo Parliament and other business businesses can buy as individuals. They don't even have to give those 50 euros, because you book them as citizens of Serbia. So tomorrow he can come to Pacoli, Haradinaj, Thaci and buy you the PKK, so he doesn't blink. The same applies to any square metre, let alone a hectare of private-owned agricultural land. So this law on amending the law is a farce, and it's just another rise in positive panic. We had a problem with Macedonia on Sunday, a Serbian country is being saved today, and by Monday, I hope that we will not have the worst of locusts or any volcano that will be prevented by the activities of the government of Aleksandr Vukic. What's the problem with Serbian agriculture? It's a subject, but not for this law. This law has nothing to do with agriculture, although it's called agricultural land, it has to do with property, I repeat, not agriculture. The problem is the unfortunate anti-urban missile. That's what we had years ago. It's an old topic of whether it should have them, whether it shouldn't, whether it should be financed by local self-government, whether it should be part of the MUP, whether it should be some special body. In any case, the money needed for the absolute full readiness of the existing anti-building system at the annual level is between 6m and 8m euros, depending on whether domestic rockets are purchased that are a little more expensive or some imports that are a little cheaper. It doesn't matter, let them buy their own homework, it's fine. Make it $8 million. The damage in Topoli and the environment in one day was estimated by commissions established there between 30m and 50m euros in one day, and 7 poor million is the eighth part of what this country throws out of our pockets for something called "Er Serbia". Therefore, it is a problem that you should solve and other problems that will create conditions for serious agricultural production to begin in Serbia. You were just talking about food production. That's not your portfolio. It has nothing to do with you, Minister. You're in charge of primary agricultural production. Yes, it is, it is, you can frown as much as you want, and for this other thing, you need to create adequate conditions. Are these conditions created by having privileged companies? Is "Tenis", whether some Arabs, whether some Turks, if some of them, I know, these Russians, white Russians, black Russians, I don't know, but that's not how you're making an ambience, so you won't come to the state to invest anyone normal. If you can give the coast of Belgrade a Lex specialise, if you can give tens of thousands of hectares by agreement "Tenis" and "Vučić", by agreement of an Arab and Vukic, then it is not an atmosphere and ambience in which you can build even the primary agricultural production, and let alone that secondary part – finished product. It's as clear as day. So stop lying to the people. This law does not solve anything. With this law still the next day, Thompson, Haradinaj, Thaci, Pacolli, choose another 10 nice, dear names of your friends, they can buy a country in Serbia whenever they want. I'd like someone to tell me how you're gonna stop it. If there is a way to prevent such a thing from happening by this law or by any other law, I congratulate you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19079	Thank you. The word has Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19080	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members of the People, I do not want to speak at all in this manner and in this language as it was just said, for one simple reason, because I believe that someone who was the Prime Minister of Serbia must at some point know what the powers of which minister are, at least that. The Ministry of Agriculture, in addition to being responsible for primary agricultural production, is also responsible for the agricultural product market and is responsible for the food industry. So, creating conditions for as much additional value as possible. Take the Ministry Act. You can nod all you want, that's how it is. The point of the whole story in agriculture is that everything is connected, and agriculture, and the processing industry, and trade in agricultural products. Now I'm not surprised why we lost continuity in the processing industry after 2000. When you didn't understand this, I get why this all happened to us. I'm sorry you're not a lawyer, I honestly don't know what you're up to, I don't want to get into it at all, I went to law school, I finished it, so I know something about property-legal relations and I know what law can regulate. Yes, it is this Law on Agricultural Land that regulates property in addition to other laws that represent roof laws – the Law on Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations, the Law on Inheritance, the Law on Transport of Immobility. In this way I suppose you should have heard that there are special laws that sort of regulate specific questions, that's exactly what the word is. And one more thing, this law protects the interest of Serbian agriculture and Serbian agricultural land. You need to know that there's one more thing, just now as a small school of law, international agreements have to be respected. Now you can nod your head as much as I did a little while ago, absolutely the same line. But there is one other thing, you must know that there is a Law on the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement of Article 53 which clearly speaks about the relationship of the legal entities that exist. Now you can play it, twist it any way you want, this thing as hard and painful as it is, I don't get into why it's bad, but we have to do this, it's high time and we're gonna do it. You can help protect Serbian interests, and as far as I can tell, you don't want to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19081	First I give the replica to Vladimir Orlic, and I'll give you the replica of the minister. How about that?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19082	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, it's unusual. So, Mr. Minister, I understand that you're amazed, but you see now, I think you understand what we're meeting here on a regular basis. It happens all the time, he's not here all day, he doesn't listen to the argument, he doesn't know what we've already said, and without listening, he knows what we're expecting too much. So, what we understand is that he doesn't understand on the other side. For example, as this law deals specifically with, for example, the difference between natural and legal persons, for example, the difference between ownership or lease, we have heard confusion on the subject today, for example, the fact that when a ratification of an international agreement becomes part of domestic law, so, for example, in our legal system, it is somewhere under the Constitution, and then it is an obligation. It is not only completely amateural and dilettaneous to ignore the international obligation, but it is the same relationship to our laws, which is our legal system, I don't know, something that a man who is a MP really cannot be commended for. Now that the person who only declares himself to be the future chief educator of all opposition activists, I can only say – we are calm, we have good days ahead. We, as representatives of the parliamentary majority, have nothing to worry about, if such scientists will educate everyone living from the opposition. To mention, with great passion and great ferocity, Haradinaj and the team around him, the man who defended them on several occasions, for whom he personally stood, would only accuse his country of Serbia, and even if that means that it is on the side of those and such, it is no wonder. I'm surprised, I have to admit, his multiple mention of Thompson. So to form an enterprise in Serbia under Serbian laws, and behind it is foreign capital, it exists long ago. Well, here, Todorovic was in 2003 working with "Frikom", in 2005 with "Diamanta". (President: Time. Last sentence, Madam President. Maybe it's not about the origins of the capital, it's about Mr. Thompson coming to him and singing to send him to the army.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19083	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19084	I was convinced and still at that point that the students of law school, especially those who finished it, were serious, intelligent people and a few bad examples would not change that view of me. I'm sorry that some here have been persistent, but unfortunately very successful in making stupid, so then they don't know where they were in 2000, Mr. Minister, where you strangers were, which you then voted directly, directly, indirectly, whether you were at that time for privatisation, were you taking part through your party in what was going on. If you're not, I'd like you to remember a little bit. You may not learn that at law school, but it's a nice custom for young people, especially if they're lucky. So, neither one, nor the other, nor the minister in charge of this area, nor I know what they're called, gave me an answer as to how they would prevent their coalition partners Haradinaj, Thaci and Pacolli, and by the way, as they were called, they stood up Thompson to buy the Serbian country, that was my question. Did I get an answer to that question? Serbian citizens see clearly. So, while I'm going to skip to comment on a lie that I've ever supported or positively talked about any of the above, you can lie to your party president, you can lie to some vice president, someone small or slightly smaller, but you can't lie to Serbian citizens. About your patriotism and where you were guarding Serbia and the Serbian country, there are no more Serbs or Serbian countries. This will also happen with agricultural land in Serbia if Serbian citizens do not stop you from doing so, and they have the first chance to do so in the Belgrade elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19085	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Replica. Well, Vladimir Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19086	Thank you very much. What's the big deal, and what's weird about it? We're topics practically just principles, we can do this for days, there's so much material there. For example, the fact that someone is declaring himself something European, and it's going the way we had the chance to hear it just before, so it's at least weird, of course, if it's even honest. As it was, is the free flow of capital supposed to be a European value, right, and then it becomes controversial when something like that happens in practice. Come on out of any country, we don't have to stick to Croatia, although I understand once again, someone needs to have a great party when he goes to the military, so that's why he mentions Thompson today, I understand that, but Croatia doesn't have to, any country. It is the limit of chauvinism, that someone is speaking – no way is there going to be sodom and gomorrah, and here on the other hand there is a great European. The size of the great Europeans once again is reflected by their actions and their words. There is no E of European values, it has long become street values, both through the dictionary and through the manners and through the habit of some heavy, inexplicable us would always be against our own state, only to try to profit in this way. So that's all that's not European and what's saying that a man who thinks himself a European isn't honest about it, and how much he's like a patriot, I think our citizens see it best. If we're going to measure ourselves with these categories, let's say that I could say that the level of patriotism that I notice by those who persistently want and challenge, somewhere around here to be able to make a trip together with friends of Bosko Pernar and those who shared a list with them, to visit an interesting monument in Jasenovac these days.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19087	Thank you. The word has a minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19088	Just another brief clarification. If you had been with farmers, if you had moved among them, to go with them every day, you would have understood how important this is to them and how necessary it is for these amendments to the law to be passed in this way. I am very sorry that you cannot recognize this need, which is exactly how we protect the interests of Serbian agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19089	I think the Serbian Parliament deserves to get back on the subject a little bit, not to hear about Thompson and Pacolli. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19090	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my fellow farmer, it's all right, he performed. There's that Einstein saying that the universe and human stupidity are infinite. He wasn't sure about the universe, but he was probably psychic and after Zivkovic's exposure he was quite certain that human stupidity was infinite. I don't know if he knows Haradini, Pacolli, Thompson, I don't know if he sings better than Thompson, but he drinks better, that's for sure. Now let's see how he was a foreign investor. We're getting a 30-year lease. That winery of my fellow farmer, who here is what he wants, doesn't know what he wants, has been leased agricultural land in state property for 40 years. The 2015 law gives investment programmes to 30 years. His lease was 50 euros a year, and we signed, the land management lady knows the lowest price of nearly 200 euros. So he was paying 50, investors 200, he was 40, and they were 30 years old. Let's move on. The investor must, according to changes in the 2015 Law, invest to buy these 52 hectares, minimum 500 000 euros. Isn't that right, Minister? Therefore, it must give the state 500 000 euros, i.e. to invest in an investment programme. And necessarily, if it's more hectares, another three thousand. Well, if it is, say, those 7,000 Agrounis, they would have to invest 21m euros in processing, which was not the case with them. Look at the wonders, my farmer's colleague did not invest 500,000 euros, but took 500,000 euros. And that's not all! Since the object of the restitution was this land, it is now due to be paid. That's what the leader of the radicals was talking about. Now 500 000 euros should be paid, because we cannot return that agricultural land in question and the poor must pay another 500 000 euros, because that land cannot be returned to previous owners. So my fellow farmer cost us a million euros. Not Pacolli, not that Thompson down there, not Haradinaj cost us how much a fellow farmer cost us, who left the session. We've been listening here to drones talk about bees, how these investors talk about real investment. I really don't know where we're gonna end up. That's a confirmation of what I said in the previous presentation, and I'll tell you more. Just a moment, my fellow farmer, who was getting foreign investors, his winery was registered - Waynemont Venchers Tortola Rod Town Virgin Islands. Whoever doesn't believe, let's check it out. And today he's telling us about investments? Today he's telling us about buying and selling land. Let me remind you, this winery was sold by MK Komercu. This is an obvious connection, and the contract was signed by the director of "MK Komerc", those from the ministry know about the alleged lease for 40 years. What to say in the end, except that he belongs to that family of the bravest people in the world, not because he's not afraid of anything, but because he's not ashamed of anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19091	We've got a little more time. The word has Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19092	Dear People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, Mr. Nedimovic, a lot of things have been heard here, I would not like to repeat myself, although I stand firmly behind the position of our parliamentary group that the main cause of this law is the SAA. That time will show, surely, that there is a way, even though it has been heard from many lawyers here that there is no way for the SAA to be suspended. It's one untruth that's been through here a few times already. We believe that essentially this law is one marketing trick towards two target groups. It is one for the EU and one for the peasants and the people in Serbia. What am I saying this for? You have here in the position of Article 3 of the 72rd, said that a citizen of an EU Member State can acquire agricultural land in private property, as set out in the Agreement, by legal means. What about the other citizens of other states? What about the citizens of Russia? What about the citizens of Turkey? What about the citizens of Asia, Africa? It is simply a misunderstanding that raises doubt that these amendments to the law were made only to please the EU and to continue the obligations that you regularly and emotionally fulfil towards the EU. It's one thing that doesn't make any sense here in law. Also, in this way, you want both our voters and the people who deal with agriculture to say that you have actually introduced restrictive measures, which is true, and we see it according to some MPs who are pro-European orientations, who oppose this way of selling the country to foreigners. However, you in this way will not bring any change to the current state of the land market, because the two basic things you failed to solve before this law was passed are the problem of restitution and the problem of the cooperative country. You keep calling here that the SAA and that some decisions have been made in the last seven or eight years when you weren't in power. I am now telling you that during your reign there are judicial verdicts which return to certain cooperatives in Vojvodina, and they cannot enroll it in a cadastre. Who is responsible for this, is the previous government or this government that has done nothing contrary to what the DS government has done? I agree here with the MPs who have criticised the way the land was sold, how are agricultural combinations sold, but what has been done over the past five years to make these things correct? Nothing. So, in particular, no measure has been taken since the SNS was in power to reassess poor privatisations. Now he's coming to a wallpaper sale of the PKK. There is a right Mr. Zivkovic who says -- who will again belong to the 5,400 hectares of the social country currently owned by the PKK? Will a foreign private person come again under a company registered in Serbia and become the owner of that land? So nothing really changes. You continue politics, as we see from the sale of the Energy Project, so will the PKK and we sell out our state resources and give them to tycoons or foreign owners, rather than to our farmers. We had a proposition here. Will the proposal be submitted by the SPS parliamentary group? Why is it that, for a certain period of time without lease, land is not given to agricultural landowners? Are you going to do this and thus prove that you really advocate that the country gets our agricultural producers to subsidize their production and that one day they become a strong middle layer? As for "Tenis", Romania was announced as major investors in 2017, they received 46,000 hectares of land, did not drown any of the passengers, although they received a state country in Romania for this reason, and received huge subsidies for organic wheat production and thus gained huge wealth. So, the policy that the SNS has been leading over the past five years, and according to what we now see and in this law, will not bring any benefit to Serbian agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19093	The word has Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19094	Madam Chairman, honourable MPs, I want two things to concentrate on from this presentation of yours. One is about citizens who have citizenship from other countries, about what you were just talking about, as regards this member of 72dj, where it is about citizens who are EU citizens. Article 85. The constitution says that foreign legal or natural persons, in accordance with a special law or international agreement, can obtain that right. This means that citizens of other countries can be treated the same way, provided that an international agreement is reached between Serbia and that other state, and that agreement must go through ratification through the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and there is nothing disputed there. As for the story of agricultural land and the lease of agricultural land, "Tenis" as well as all other applicants had a public call, applied, had completely passed the same procedure. Will this process be completed? We will see these days, with regard to two locations, the commission's decision has been made, and the units of local self-government remain to be heard about it. About three more applications, the procedure isn't over yet. As there is a break-up rule for all other investors, there is also for this investor. No one gets any subsidies in terms of organic production, what you're saying now using examples of Romania, it doesn't exist. You have to pay attention to one thing. In Romania, total liberalisation of agricultural land immediately occurred, and they had total chaos in terms of agricultural land to prevent any production of the same, similar, close chaos or problematic situation, we came up with a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Agricultural Land, which is, in a moment, a reference to a colleague from the SAA, related to young farmers, i.e. domestic persons, an existing Law on Agricultural Land for persons who have less than 30 hectares of land, have the right to buy state land up to 20 hectares. Under the law, we will regulate it and give it the right under the Agricultural Land Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19095	The word has Vladimir Orlic, replica, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19096	Thank you very much. Although I'm about to say, thank you and whoever caused the replica, which gave me a nice space to pick up where I left off a little early. With excellent support, exchange of support with the man I spoke with for a while, thank you for confirming that I was absolutely right when I spoke about the level of patriotism but also the Europeanism between them being completely identical, that there is no difference there and that for good reason I recommended that maybe a joint trip, perhaps up to one mention of the Jasenovac area, might have something interesting to see. What does this look like? This doesn't make sense. Now, as far as I'm concerned, and I'll explain everything exactly if I have to, and as far as this patriotic relationship is concerned, I'm now quoting that the man who's usually head of the association, the group, which is, the ones who like to cause replicas, I said not so long ago, he's got seven days, that there's a lot of patriots in the yellow company. So that's that level, that's that relationship. If I had said maybe five days before that there was no difference between him or them and the unsuccessful Dossian candidate Jeremic, I quote - in national and patriotic terms. So it's all exactly the same as their own recognition, just like the attitude towards Europeans. So that I wouldn't explain it Europeanly at the level of some values, let's at a level that I will surely understand, when he knows that he tells me, for example, what level of subsidies came from European countries to Serbia, which is the percentage, which is the number of jobs, which is the level, may be in absolute value of grants, from that space to Serbia, we can talk further. I am sure that the one who sees the essence of the economy in – let's make money in this amount and that amount, when these things find out I will give myself the best possible answers to a number of questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19097	The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19098	I thank and call for a violation of Article 27 and Article 103. So I call upon the right to intervene with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, hoping that we did not all listen carefully to the MP as he used his rhetorical skills in the replica. Say – you two pick yourself up and go to Jasenovac, there's something interesting to see is inadmissible. For all of us, it's not rhetoric, it's not even oratory, it's not even an elemental skill to be cynical, sarcastic, or whatever style it is in the replica. I'm absolutely sure that both because of fatigue and because it's already six hours and we work so hard that we haven't all listened very carefully. I am, and that is why I ask you, not to vote on this, but to really ask all of us to listen carefully and refrain from such cynical wits in an attempt to let someone who is a political opponent know how superior we are in jokes that do not belong in the National Assembly. With full respect for freedom of speech, say – go to Jasenovac, there is something interesting to see, not freedom of speech. There's no two sides. There's no style. It's just a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-24-0.u19099	Thank you. I really haven't heard the words spoken, which doesn't justify me. I can't support it if what you said is said. I'm certainly asking to make sure by tomorrow morning that your allegations are true. I think that you were not malicious but well-intentioned and because of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia that we really care about what words we say and then in the morning we will talk about it if it is necessary when we determine exactly what MP Orlic said. If there's been a misunderstanding, I expect we don't have such ugly misunderstandings here in Parliament, because of all of us. Vladimir Marinkovic gave up his discussion. Sasa Radulovic, Vladimir Djukanovic, Balsa Bozovic, I think, as I read and how MPs are not present that is best, and also because of the tiredness that MP Gordana Comic said to this end and continue to work tomorrow morning, we start at number nine. Thank you. Dear MPs, we continue the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 106 Members of the Parliament are present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall and that we can continue our work. I would like to inform you that today I have been informed that the sittings will not be attended by MPs Danica Bukvic and Djordje Milicevic. We are continuing to look into the draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go. Have Alexander Markovic sign in, next up is the Witch of Radeta.
