ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19653	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 64 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system and wish you a good morning. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 97 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and we have the conditions to begin the session. Do any of the presidents or authorised representatives want to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19654	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have two questions to ask. Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic's first question – why has the Republic of Serbia literally done nothing to help arrested Serbian citizens who, on false charges of attempted cracks in Montenegro, have been in prison for months already and have been led by a clearly fake criminal trial? No diplomatic note has ever been sent by the Ministry, no diplomatic action has taken. It is high time for the Republic of Serbia to help its citizens who are innocently accused, and otherwise to take measures of rhetoric towards the Republic of Montenegro, so that Serbia arrests the same number of citizens of Montenegro, to keep them in jail until Montenegro lets our citizens go, but to read the Republic of Serbia that will arrest the citizens of Montenegro, so those closest to the current regime of Milo Djukanovic. There is no other way to get our citizens out of Montenegro. We see that there are sick people here, we see that there are life-threatening people, we see that there is one general in question. You can't take it anymore. The second question is Prime Minister Ana Brnabic's question. How long will Prime Minister Brnabic tolerate the unarticulated behaviour of Minister Zorana Mihajlovic? Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, following a major affair with false accusations that she placed against a Chinese firm working on the highway from Belgrade to Cačka, caused a major diplomatic incident, attacked the Serbian Orthodox Church two days ago. The Serbian Orthodox Church has attacked because it has its position on the most important Serbian national issue, on the Kosovo issue, and what the patriarch suggested to President Vukic to take care of the mood and attitude it holds in the people. And now she's attacking the church for meddling in politics. First, in the criticism of politicians and politicians everyone has the right to interfere, including the church, both church dignitaries and believers and people from different levels of church hierarchy. The basic democratic fluid is the right of every citizen to criticise power. Besides, the church isn't something out of the system. The Church has the status of an autonomous legal corporation within the legal order, which means that the state must not interfere with internal church issues unless it is a violation of the Constitution, and the church has the right to criticise the state, state authorities and the highest state officials. A minister like Zorana Mihajlovic does not have the right to return in this way, because the church is a permanent institution, it lasts for more than 800 years, and the regimes change. The regimes are from election to election and there is no political regime, in a spiritual sense, with regard to national interests, to be above the church. Of course, this does not mean that the regime must listen to church and church dignitaries. It is high time for Minister Zorana Mihajlovic to be replaced.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19655	Time. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19656	Dear fellow Members of the People, my first question is for the Minister of Health, Mr. Loncar and the Minister of Environmental Protection, Mr. Trivan. A few days ago, the concentration of ambrosia, seen on the official government site, was 14 times higher than allowed in Belgrade. A similar situation has been seen in many other cities in Serbia. This creates major problems for many citizens and children, of course parents of children who are allergic. We know that many children today suffer from allergies like this. What are they going to do about it? I know it's not some problem that can be solved with a magic wand, but keeping green areas in the city has a lot to do with what's going on. I just want to point out that this reason also leads to a large number of illnesses, which means that it negatively affects society as a whole. One more question for Minister Zlatibor Lonchar. As I recall, he said in October 2015 that he would renovate and renovate all hospitals and health homes in Serbia within the next year or by the middle of next year, that they would all be painted, that sanitary knots in them would be arranged, so toilets, bathrooms etc. I wanted to ask – could the minister inform us how these planned works are progressing, which are exactly hospitals and health homes restored and renovated and is now the situation in them, as he said, that we should not embarrass ourselves? So, are we still embarrassing ourselves with the state of hospitals and health homes or not? The next question for Justice Minister Nelu Kuburovic, and for Culture and Information Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic -- is it possible that what happened in Serbia, which is that the arrest of one participant was carried out to realise the programme in connection with the suspect of the most serious crime, is that for murder? So is it possible for something like this to happen at all, and that the investigation of the most serious crime is done in this way, because this is part of a criminal case, is part of the investigation. Here, NUNS, for example, said that this was a school example of a systematic violation of the law. Is this now the highlight of turning the state into a reality, and turning the investigation into a play, or are we still going to look at similar events? I'd like to hear the answer to that. Another question for the Minister of Culture and Informing Vladan Vukosavljevic, since, as we have seen these days, the public is upset about the Vranjska Novina case after 23 years of publication of this weekly, and because of the hunger strike of Vukasin Obradovic, the owner and editor-in-chief of these newspapers, everything that has happened in this regard, the protests that have begun. Does the minister think that this development of the situation was necessary and what he intends to do to resolve this situation? I heard some comments about the minister, or the government withdrawing from the media. I don't understand that. Is this the Ministry of Culture and Information or is it something else? I wish I could get that straight. Another question for the culture minister, perhaps for other ministers, let's say, perhaps for Minister Ljajic since tourism is in his jurisdiction, do they know the state of the castles in all Serbia, especially in Vojvodina where there are more than 40, there are most? I'm very sorry that I couldn't get pictures of these buildings today, but I'll make sure that maybe I can get it on another occasion. In other countries, these buildings have been hotels with 5 and 6 stars, while in our country they are disastrously torn down and collapsed. I'll give an example, say, of Bisingen Castle in Vlajkovec near Vrsac, which is a beautiful building and pearl of architecture and pearl of cultural heritage, and he's in such a state, as I said, I wish we were able to see the pictures now. I'm really going to try to show you what this looks like, and I'd really ask everyone to engage and to sort out this question and to use this treasure, not to ruin it in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19657	The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19658	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, today I'm going to ask a few questions for several top officials and several ministers. These are all those questions that we can't get an answer to in our daily lives, and these questions are of great interest to our citizens. The first question I ask is to the minister and the man who is the image of the advanced power of the defence minister, Mr. Alexander Vulin – does the defence minister know, as if more than 80% of the Serbian Army has an average profit less than it is made in the Republic of Serbia? Meanwhile, the minister borrows 205,000 euros from his aunt in Canada and buys an apartment. Does the minister know that out of the total number of soldiers who left the army this and 2016, 75% of them did it on a personal request? The military was the most trusted institution until it came to power of the SNS. As the military is managed by Vukic, Vulin and Gasic, the army is an institution to escape from. Seventy-five percent of those who left the army did so on a personal request. This is the fifth defence minister in just six years' power of the SNS. What's symptomatic is that every new minister proposed by the SNS is worse than his predecessor in the post. That's why I'm asking the Minister of Justice, Mrs. or Miss Nelli Kuburovic what will the Justice and Judicial Authorities do to inform Serbian citizens about where Minister Vulina 205, 210, 250 000 euros for the purchase of an apartment? By simple mathematics, we can conclude that each minister, including Minister Vulin, receives an annual salary of 10,000 euros. If he receives through the Minister's salary in a year, how many years does it take for him to pay his aunt 200,000 euros? Twenty years. What will he live on with his family? (Radoslav Milojic: Why did you shut me out? Really, I don't understand. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19659	Mr. Milojicic, an error in the electronic system. Please ask for a word again. Ask for the word of your colleague Milojičić again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19660	Mr. Arsic, I really don't understand why you took my word from me. I really don't get it, do I? I'm here asking specific questions from the Justice Minister, did Mr. Vulin take and borrow money from the tycoon, so aunty is just an excuse? Do you think anyone in Serbia believes that somewhere there is anyone's aunt, especially the wife's aunt, who shares 250,000 euros? I don't know why you took my word, is it because the minister boasts 250,000 euros while our people starve? Is it because the minister has 250,000 euros that he took from the tycoon while each soldier works for a 150 dinar daily. It is not Serbia that the DS wants and it is not Serbia that the DS stands for. Since we know the moral qualities of Minister Vulin, we know that he will not resign and this time I call on Prime Minister Ana Brnabic to resolve Minister Vulin. Can you tell me how much time I have since you interrupted me several times?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19661	You've got 45 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19662	Thank you. I ask the second question, Minister Djordjevic – what exactly is unemployment in Serbia? Is it true that unemployment in Serbia is 17%, as we have data or unemployment in Serbia is 2.3.5% or unemployment is almost gone, as Aleksandar Vucic tells us every day, even tells us that we will have to import labour? Is it true that the Bureau employees were tasked with getting anyone to report to the desk at 12 o'clock, and the man was late, coming in at 12.15 and automatically being taken off the list of unemployed? Is that how SNS takes off unemployment? Thank you, Mr. Arsic, and I don't understand, really, why you shut me out.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19663	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19664	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my first question concerns the prosecution: what is it going to do about the fact that the former defence minister, Mr. Sutanovac, is being called "a kidnapper" in the people, what will the prosecution do about the fact that he has found a four-listed deline on the return pasture? The four-listed deteline is called – the rest of the 300,000 euros in the account of the former defence minister, who did not have an aunt in Canada, and has 300,000 euros in the account, with an 800-euro salary, with a built 320-square-square-square-square-square-square-squared salary of 320-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-s-square-s-square-s-s. My question to the prosecutor's office, or suggestion, is that during the actions to be taken, along with the police, pay attention to the sale of enormous military equipment, say, 500 dinar boats, thousands of dinars, aluminum, which were missing during the flood in Obrenovac and the surrounding area and that the Yugoslav Army was missing. Also, and I see Mr. Sutanovac got up on the phone, and he's keenly interested in this case, so the prosecution can examine whether it has anything to do with the overlying 800 tanks and whether that 300 000 euros is a product of corruption, and in this regard, I think that the prosecution has to question certain people from the Anti-Corruption Agency. Because if they were doing their job, it would never have happened that the defence minister or the defence minister who rode there on some US aircraft carriers had 300,000 euros in his account, and his salary was 800 euros. I know he'll show up from the esthera and say as for that penthaus that he passed on to another Babaca, that, well, he bought it from his esthetic incomes. I'm suggesting to the D.A. that he examine how much the father-in-law of the aforementioned defence minister of Sutanovac paid his taxes for those years when he was helping his son-in-law? Look at the wonders, he only helped him when this one was power. My next question is about abuse in the municipalities of Cajetina, Smederjevska Palanka and Indjia – what will the prosecution and the police do about the obvious, and in public it is presented, the abuses committed in these municipalities, will it be sanctioned and the prosecution and law of prosecution investigate that a senior DS official who some call a depositary is justified, how the official and party official Goran Jesic bought an apartment in Vienna that is estimated at 800 thousand euros, how he acquired a penthaus estimated at 250 thousand euros in India, how did he acquire a second apartment in India estimated at 100,000 euros, how did he recently buy an apartment in Novi Sad, where he also had an apartment that he bought in Novi Sad, so he has two apartments in Novi Sad? About the members of his family where the unemployed uncle has a pool house, where they have a house on Tatar Hill, how all these properties were acquired with a 800-euro salary and what the prosecution will do about it and whether they will call on responsibility the Anti-Corruption Agency or what I call it a corruption agency, which was formed by the DS and which apparently did not do its job. Also, my question for the prosecution and police is what will be done about "Energo Zelena", where the Belgians accuse us of 130m euros, because of the obvious negligence and corrupt things done by DS, or its officials where the Belgians promised that there would be 250,000 tons of slaughterhouse waste in Serbia and that this factory would be able to do full capacity, and it happened that there is no Belgians suing us for 130m euros, because I suppose someone previously took the money for the job. Can't the state pay for their mistakes and my questions are all focused on the prosecution, or what will they do about these obvious cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19665	The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19666	I thank the chairman. Fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, ask the question to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and Minister Vukosavljevic, concerning the state of the media in the Republic of Serbia after the implementation of a set of media privatisation laws, is the evaluation of what is the situation in the media after privatisation and have the objectives sought, i.e. the goals set out in the adoption of the law? The second question is, is there censorship in Serbia? I am asking this because the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 50 clearly states that there is no censorship in the Republic of Serbia, in Article 51, that everyone has the right to truly, fully and timely be informed of issues of public importance and the means of public notice are obliged to respect it. So I tried to get an answer from Minister Vukosavljevic a while ago. Unfortunately for this question, the answer I received was that the legal powers of the ministry were stated where the ministry said the deadlines provided for by the law had been passed by a sublegal act, aided in the construction of sublegal acts, etc. As an MP, I want an answer to a specific question that I have asked, and all in line with what is happening in the media, not just these days on the issue of Vranjska novine, which is one in a series of media that have been hit by authorities and regimes because they have been professionally doing their job for a long time. Not to talk about what conditions journalists are working on today. It doesn't matter if they work in this or that media, they all do their job and work in catastrophic conditions. Today in Serbia after a set of media laws, journalists are fighting, breaking into journalists' apartments, journalists are running around in certain media calling them all kinds of names, and all in order to control absolutely, what the government wants to present to the public. What we could see in previous years is that the government is constantly, propaganda through certain media it controls, manipulating Serbian citizens with how the situation in Serbia is constantly, how the government is great, how better life will start, here it is, only it isn't. I must say that the great responsibility for such a situation in the Republic is also borne by the media, because they play a great role in creating a state of society and precisely because of the great general poverty in the country, as well as because of financial control by the authorities. Unfortunately, the media must play by the regime rules, to exist and to ensure existence for their workers. A set of media law aimed at getting the state out of media financing, or media ownership structure. It's just that the state no longer has property, but through financial control it still absolutely controls the media. You don't have any local media on whom anyone who isn't from the governing structures can appear...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19667	Do you want to ask a question or do you want to make comments?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19668	I asked the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19669	No, you're making comments.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19670	I've asked the question and I'm explaining the question. At first I asked a question, you'll hear it, or you'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19671	I'll see in the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19672	I'm done. Don't interrupt me. That the situation in the media is bad and that in a year from 59, we fell to 66th place on media freedom in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19673	Comrade Alexich, will you finish? You've explained the question. You are now making comments and seeing and answering your own question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19674	Here, I'm done. So, there's a problem in the media because the authorities are silent and they don't want to solve it, and I'm here to propose that a polling committee be formed to review the situation in the media, which the government refused, in fact, did not want to vote. And today, every journalist in Serbia is obliged to ask representatives of the authorities -- why they did not accept the formation of a polling committee to determine the situation in the media after the privatisation process, because the proposal for the establishment of a polling committee made clear that a review and the status of media employees working in Serbia is being sought today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19675	The People's Messenger Slavisa Ristic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19676	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have an obligation on behalf of that part of the Serbian citizens of the Republic of Serbia who do not recognise the so-called KIM. The institutions of independent Kosovo and what so-called Serbian List MPs do not recognise as their representatives, I refer several very short questions to the President of the Republic, Aleksandr Vukic, of course, after his support for the Serbian List entering the government and supporting war criminal and terrorist Ramush Haradinaj. I will read these questions, since they are not mine personally, so that I can convey them as crediblely as possible. There are short questions, I won't keep you long. The first question, to which we expect a clear and unequivocal answer, is – are they so-called. Members of the so-called Serbian lists of decisions on the support of criminal Ramush Haradinaj alone and with little consultation and assistance from Mark Đuric, according to Aleksandar Vukic, or did the decision be made personally by Aleksandar Vukic, as is the case in all decisions regarding Kosovo and Metohija? What's really true here and who's cheating on the public here, is that so-called. Serbian List MPs, who say they got the order from the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, or did they do it themselves? The second question to which the public, and above all Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija expect an answer, is that they are told and explained who they are now, after the shameful support of Haradinaj and participation in his so-called so-called. The government, "haradini" and "tacije" Serbs, as SNS representatives, and Alexander Vukic himself, branded all those who tried past the Serb list to participate in the so-called ". The parliamentary Kosovo elections? Whose Serbs will now be in Kosovo and Metohija if they dare to take part in the so-called "Serb Lists". local separatist elections? So that's another question, probably, that's my comment, but let's not get a reminder from the chairman, it'll probably be Serbia's Eibin Kurti now. The third question, referring to the security of the Serb people in KIM, and given that Aleksandar Vucic, in his address to Serbian citizens, explained that support for war criminals and terrorists had followed as the only possible solution so as not to follow the Serb re-emergence to KIM. So, for security reasons, we refer the question to Mr. President - Mr. President, Aleksandra Vukic, explain to the remaining unsaved Serbs in KIM, and above all, the rest of the families of the victims kidnapped and killed by Ramush Haradinaj, as they imagine the terrorist, war criminal and the Serb child slaughterer, as you rightly call him, to worry about the safety of the remaining Serbs at KIM. Have you ever thought, you and the Serbian List, to dig through the living wounds of those mothers who lost their sons and daughters because of the criminal Ramush Haradinaj? At the end of the fourth question and messages to Mr. President – why, Mr. President-in-Office Vukic, do you deceive the Serbian public by saying that there was no other solution in this case, that they became, as you claim at a press conference in public speaking, only three solutions? It is one thing to support Aibyn Kurti, the other is that Serbs do not support anyone and put themselves in a position to face some new security risk and pogrom and the third is to support Haradinaj. Mr. President, it is not true that there was no solution that in addressing the citizens of Serbia you brought the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia instead of the Aibin Kurti programme and if you had read the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, not this programme, you would have come to a solution for the KIM issue, we would have all responded to how the state of Serbia and the Serbian people in KIM behave. Thank you. I expect this answer, of course, not through the media, not at the press conference, not in the new address of the President of the Republic's nation, but as the Rules of Procedure put it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19677	The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19678	I would like to thank the chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for asking the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, as regards the Mathematical High School and the plan for its promotion, i.e. further improvement of its work. A few days ago, on Tuesday, the Mathematical High School celebrated 51 years of existence, so on September 19th 1966, the first students sat in the benches of the Mathematical High School. Some four decades later, on May 5th 2007, the Serbian government decided to declare it by one decision of the mathematical high school of special national importance. I believe that most citizens know that the Mathematical High School is significant, but I would like to show my fellow Members, the MPs, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia through several illustrative examples, which is why the Mathematical High School is so important to Serbia. Here's an example. This year, the famous British University of Oxford, awarded a total of five scholarships to the entire world outside the EU, out of the five scholarships, three scholarships were received by students from the Mathematical High School. Every year on the second, the famous British University of Cambridge, look out, it's two universities that belong to the top five largest universities in the world, about six, seven students from the Mathematical High School are enrolled. One major economic force is the education that Sweden is, on average, ten years old, enrolls a student on Cambridge, not to mention getting scholarships from our students to Cambridge. Another example, the city of Moscow has traditionally held a team competition, called the tournament metropolis, on which they participate, except, of course, Moscow, cities such as Beijing, Shanghai, Berlin, Milan, Warsaw and many other major cities. Last year, the mathematical high school representing Belgrade won first place. This year she won second place. Let me tell you right now, the competition is being held in the knowledge of mathematics, physics, information and chemistry, first of all because we were second because mathematical high school puts less focus on chemistry and more on physics, especially on mathematics and information. Furthermore, here is an interesting information about a topic that is interesting everywhere in the world, including us, is about gender equality. It used to be said that there weren't enough women in the IT sector and that's why Cambridge University, about five years ago, launched the Mathematical Olympics for girls. At that Mathematical Olympics in 2013, girls from our Mathematical High School were first, in 2015 they were second. To sum up, to this day, the students of the mathematical high school won 420 medals for Serbia at the Science Olympics, and only this year 16 medals. Do you realize what kind of information that is? Let's count how many medals our athletes won at the sports Olympics, which have been held for the third century of this modern Olympic game, and even if we took the old Yugoslavia, I don't think there would be as many medals as the mathematical high school in Belgrade has won. The largest number of our biggest IT experts, both in the country and in the world comes from the Mathematical High School, and we know how important IT sector is for our exports. In addition, the recent prime minister, and current President Vukic has pointed out a thousand times that the IT sector is our most important strategic branch of the development of our economy. Why am I telling you all this? The mathematical high school everywhere in the world is recognized as an extremely important institution. A few days ago, a delegation from the city of Beijing visited the Mathematical High School on Monday. He was the secretary of education of the city of Beijing, as the city's minister of Beijing will say about the Mathematical High School, a city that has more inhabitants than the whole of Serbia, it's as if our minister went to visit a school, in a country, because they are interested in co-operation with their schools in Mathematical High School. They came from Macedonia to learn from us. They came from Angola to our math high school to learn from us. From Macedonia they came and said – we will make a special law on mathematical high school, and then in 2019 we will establish it and start enrolling students. This is what I want to suggest and ask our Ministry – is it planned to pass a special law on mathematical high school? If it's not planned, I think it should, because I think it's important. Then we should adopt a special regulation that regulates the specific, or special status of this school, especially important for the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19679	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19680	Dear citizens of Serbia, on behalf of all those who, of course, disagree with the current SNS authority, I have an obligation to ask a few questions to those most responsible in this country. First of all, I would ask the question of the Minister of Culture Vladan Vukosavljevic and the state regulatory body for electronic media – are they considering a ban on realising the programme in Serbia, which are based on law and what should be the obligation of both the Ministry of Culture and the Republic of Regulatory Body for Electronic Media? So, what is the position of the culture minister and REM on reality programmes in Serbia? Will they be forbidden? Two, what is the position of the Minister of Culture and the Republic Regulatory Body for Electronic Media on the withdrawal of the national frequency "Pink", which also has the basis under the law and what have we asked not only for but also for many citizens, tens of thousands of citizens who signed a petition to ban the reality of the show in Serbia? Under three, of course, what about the Public Media Service, which definitely does not play its part of the Public Media Service and does not meet its slogan “Your right to know everything”, will the Minister of Culture, will REM react and provide at least one political show on the RTS and RTS Public Media Service in which it will enable the confrontation between the authorities and the opposition? So, what do I think, Minister of Culture and what does REM think, is it normal that currently in Serbia at the Public Media Service, we don't have a single political show in which we can discuss current social issues and also visit opposition representatives? The second question concerns the president of the state, Alexander Vukic, and that question, as our people say, I would ask both in the picture and in the word. Does he know these journalists who are seen in these pictures and who were beaten to death on the day of the oath of Alexander Vukic before the House of the National Assembly? Did he visit them at the hospital? Did he condemn violence against these journalists? Here, there's more pictures. So, did the president of the state initiate the resolution of the issue of violence against these journalists who were injured on the day of his inauguration? The second question concerns one specificity which, I think, and here I am asking the president of the state, is that there is no one in the world, and that is that one man is the president of the state, president of the ruling party, acting as Prime Minister and head of all secret security services in our country. So, is it normal, Mr. Vukic, that you are still the head of all the secret security services in Serbia and when will you stop performing one of your many functions? A final question for Mr. President -- when Sinisa Mali will resign as mayor of Belgrade, because it was promised personally by Aleksandar Vukic, and as we can see, it is summer past and there is no resignation from Sinisha Mali. Of course, one question for the prosecution and Minister of Education Mladen Sarčević. Bogdan Laban Mayor of Subotica, did you, Mr. Minister of Education, step into the protection of the university professor, whom Mr. Laban promised to rip out his throat and put concrete shoes on his feet... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19681	Request word again, there's something wrong with the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19682	Thank you, Chairman. There's always a problem with microphones when the opposition speaks, but that's normal. Thank you. In the end, I would like to ask a very important question to the National Bank of Serbia, the Prosecutor's Office and the Police, because we have been asking a question here for seven days and there is no answer and I call on those who are competent to answer that question and to question the case. Is it true that one of the leading media tycoons in Serbia, Zeljko Mitrovic, took a 27,000,000-euro loan and then paid 5,000,000 euros in Ukraine's account as a bribe and corruption to those who allowed him to take a 27,000,000-euro loan? So, is there any such knowledge at the NBS? Is there any such knowledge with the police and the D.A.'s office? So did Zeljko Mitrovic pay 5,000 euros in one Ukrainian account to pay a bribe to get a 27,000,000-euro loan? So who is protecting Zeljko Mitrovica from criminal responsibility? Why is Zeljko Mitrovic still not in prison because there are at least two murders behind him that he and his family are responsible for? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19683	Mr. Beard, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19684	Who?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19685	I just gave you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19686	To me?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19687	I give you a second warning. You called the man a murderer.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19688	Yeah? You. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19689	The first question goes to Minister Djordjevic. Did the ministry exercise the necessary control of work at the social work centres after the last two murders that took place outside the Centre for Social Labour in Rakovica and New Belgrade? If so, would you please inform the public that it is possible for the General Court in Pancheva, in collaboration with the Standard for Social Work in Pancheva, to assign custody to the man who butchered his wife with a knife after the child declared that he had the fear of the father who did this? Who estimates that a man who made his ex-wife a permanent invalid is capable of taking care of a minor child? The second question, do you know that more than a year is late with the adoption of the Law on Gender Equality? How do you know that the Draft has worked for more than two years and that not only has the body of co-ordination worked for gender equality, but a large number of civil organisations, a large number of individuals and individuals who are experts in this area, as well as only the Ministry of Labour, as well as former Minister of Defence, and today's Minister of Defence, were familiar with the work on this law, how is it possible today that this same minister insists that the draft law on gender equality is restored to the beginning and that a new working group is formed? What is the real reason why the adoption of the Law on Gender Equality is delayed? Is it the fear of finding more women in executive, legislative, and elsewhere? A question for the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. After information about the property, i.e. ownership of a three-bedroom apartment in the Municipality of Zvezda Minister Vulina, has appeared in public, we are interested in what the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office has done on this occasion? Did you question Secretary Vulin about the origins of the money he bought the apartment on Starry? Have you contacted Customs, NBS, Canadian and Spanish authorities and determined the origin of the money? Have you examined the aunt of Minister Vulin's wife, who allegedly gave up 200 thousand euros to buy a three-bedroom apartment on Starry? Did you ask Minister Vulina how she thought she'd repay her wife's debt if his incomes were only 100,000 dinars? A question for the former Prime Minister and the current president of the state. So far, we have asked 24 questions from the congregation speaker, and we have never received an answer from Alexander Vukic. Our 25th question is this. Our list, therefore, of the SNS list, the Serb list entered the government of officially unrecognized Kosovo just ten days ago by joining the coalition with Ramush Haradinaj. Does this mean that this move of yours is actually putting us in the process of throwing out the preamble from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Are you aware that for the referendum's success on this issue it takes 50% plus one of the voters enrolled in the voter list, and in order to get the preamble out, it takes the majority of the votes cast out from this total number of voters? Is it clear to you that you're not going to get away with this? The 20th question for Alexander Vucic reads: when will the president of the state stop breaking the constitution and resign as SNS president, so that he will not be in conflict of interest, and how will he finally become president of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia? It's a question for the president of the National Assembly. This is the 17th time we ask Maja Gojkovic and she consistently does not give answers. We'll repeat them: when will we get an answer to the 16 questions previously asked, and why haven't we got them yet? When will he bring in the work plan of the Assembly? When will the President of the Assembly call on the College and why does he not invite him at all? When will the chairman put a motion on her shift on the agenda, and she promised?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19690	Five minutes, co-worker.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19691	As always, we note that you are obliged to forward these answers to us in writing, not verbally.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19692	Thank you. (Tatyana Macura: Why did you turn off my microphone? Well, you had five minutes. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19693	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, I would like to ask the Ministry of Justice and the D.A. about the media attacks on the President of the Republic. In the last year, especially several months, citizens of the Republic of Serbia have witnessed daily primitive, malicious, untrue, tenant and brutal attacks against the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, his family and his parents. Never in Serbia's recent history has one president of Serbia been more ground-based and brutally attacked by more brutal media than our President Aleksandar Vukic was attacked by media. These media attacks against the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, his family and his parents are the acts of racketeering, mafia, criminal, political groups from the country and abroad. Their goal is to weaken the role of the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia with a tendency to weaken the economic, financial and security powers of the Republic of Serbia and to deter the reform course of our country, which leads our president, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the SNS and most of the MPs of this high house. The media attacks on President Vukic, his parents and his family have slipped deeply into pathology and media madness unrecorded in these areas, as well as criminal responsibility. Certain individuals, such as the owners of Alexander Rodic or employees of certain tabloids, are leaders of some opposition groups, such as Saša Jankovic, in the press known as Sale Prangi, Sara Radulovic called the bankruptcy king, Bosko Obradovic called the bully, Dragan Sutanovac called "the kidnapper", Zoran Zivkovic a known farmer in an attempt, professional-political analysts such as Djordje Vukadinovic, known in the National Assembly as Djordje Vlach or Vlahočević, individual actors, such as Sergei Trifunović, called pee or piss, said he would piss on the president's grave and individual academics, such as Dusan Teodorović, are poisoning citizens of the Republic of Serbia with daily media attacks on the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vocic, his family and his family. These media daily attacks on the president of the Republic of Serbia, by spitting, planting, fiction, have not only stopped at him, but have spread to individual ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, military minister Aleksandr Vukic and BIA chief Bratislava Gasic. What concerns the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is that the media first time in Serbia's history was attacked by Serbia's military, the MUP and the BIA. Dear People's MPs, Serbia is a democratic country where criticism of authorities is even desirable, but there is an insurmountable difference between media attacks and criticism. Criticism is based on the truthfulness of facts, and it is therefore even socially beneficial and medicinal. On the other hand, everyone will condemn the attacks on journalists, regardless of the occasion, as we condemn and attack the Beast of the Dvora on journalists Pinka Maja Zelec and her colleague. It is expected, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that the media attacks on President Vukic will be increasingly severe and brutal whenever he opens or hits a cornerstone for our factories and highways. I question the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Serbia – does the elements of criminal responsibility for the daily media attacks on the president of the Republic of Serbia, his family, the Army of the Republic of Serbia, the MUP of the Republic of Serbia and the Security Information Service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19694	The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19695	Thank you. I point out the violation of Rule 27 of Rules of Procedure, which indicates that you are taking care of the order at this session, and also the 107th dignity of this Assembly. I ask you to stop applying force to this session, verbal force, by making warnings of free speech and democracy, which you support, as you say, and here you have not warned someone who, at his age, allows himself to behave in this way in this House. I really hope you catch the strings, let's say, that at this session today, there's order and there's no humiliation in those people who are exclusively telling the truth and fighting for the truth. What the citizens of Serbia see and who they support, it also feels that in public and that's what you're worried about. Do not apply force, act violently and share warnings without foundation, and exclude teachers who allow themselves at that age to be insulted by MPs. I thank you. I apologize to the citizens of Serbia for being exposed to such disgrace in such a tall home.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19696	So this is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's an apology. I will not punish you for showing disrespect and insult to the members of the House in the third century. Your entire speech was directed towards discrimination against Members of the House in the Third Age. So, after women, we now have that kind of discrimination. Do you want us to vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure that the Vice President may have done? (Maria Janjušević: Yes. Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19697	Thank you. I think the deputy president of the assembly, who chaired before you, has committed a violation of Article 109. The Rules of Procedure, where he says the reminders are given to a People's MP who directly addresses the other People's MP. Mr Atlagic, who spoke, addressed the names directly to several MPs. And then, in the next position of the same member of 109, he says – if swearing and insulting expressions are used, is it an offensive expression if it is said – beasts from the Dvora? I ask the chairman, I belong to the Serbian Movement Group of the Dvora, and on what grounds is I considered a beast? It is offensive to me, and I demand that in the same way that two warnings were made, in the same way as one was said, and another warning to Mr. Obradovic, I believe that Mr. Arsic should have given the warning to Mr. Atlagic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19698	We have some unwritten rule not to make any warnings. I don't know how there was a warning to the MP Bosko Obradovic, I'll see. We have an unwritten rule, unfortunately, although the institution is asking questions and asking for explanations has become everything except real questions and asking for explanations. We're all aware of that, no one's small. But we'll see how there was a warning and if there were any grounds. In my opinion, just some harsh, harsh insults or similar qualifications, but we'll see. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19699	Dear Chairman, I'm advocating Article 27. The previous chair of the session did not apply this second item from the Rules of Procedure, that the president or chairman of the National Assembly should be informed of the application of this Rules of Procedure. A fellow MP, otherwise a professor, on the day when we talk about education laws, gives examples to his colleagues and colleagues, gives examples to his students, students in Serbia. Yesterday we had a lecture and a tolerance and a real approach by a professor, Professor Micunović, who was talking about exactly the subject, and here we had a demonstration of a different relationship and application of democracy live. The chairman tolerated everything we heard from the MPs from the position, the position coalition. On the other hand, the way and attitude towards MPs from the opposition is something that continues from day to day, but it is even more visible, not as we have seen all previous years, it is more visible today when an example of different behavior is to be shown, especially in expectations from professors who are to raise generations, in pronouncing, in nicknames they pronounce, ugly nicknames they pronounce for their political opponents. I don't think that's the way. He deserved a warning anyway. Once again, I ask you to retroactively apply some options to the chairman of this Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19700	Thank you. I don't think you're asking us to vote. I will assure you everything I can, what I can promise you, the beauty of the contents of the speech and the MPs Bosko Obradovic and Mark Aglagic. If I have to make a decision or a verdict, I have to assess both. I would ask Vice President Veroljub Arsic, as he was concerned with refraining from commenting through the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Sign up one more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19701	Dear colleagues and colleagues, two basic laws are extremely important before us, yesterday we heard, which are making solutions and I can say that we had, probably because of the seriousness of the laws themselves, one quality debate, quality visions of various political options and I believe the quality answers the minister gave. It is clear that as a modern democratic society, as well as most serious societies, we are looking for a solution for our 21st century education to be a momentum and a basis for serious development, both economic and social progress and prosperity. An important Law on Higher Education, which was adopted in 2005, when Serbia joined the Bologna Declaration, the Bologna Process, as well as the current System Education Foundation Act, was repeatedly inaugurated. These changes of law should be viewed positively. The processes of technical – technological development are really fast today, today should constantly change education, constantly modernise our education system, because every stalemate today in education is something that does not follow modern movements and can really cost all generations that will come after us, be directly regressive and harmful. I'm going to remind you of the famous American education system that has been dominant since the early 20th century, suffers and changes all the time, endures interrogations and is constantly being watched. Be careful, it is a law that allowed the full progress of the whole, i.e. the type of education that has enabled large patents in science, from polyocrines, pacemakers, over jet planes, water treatment, etc. One such system of education Americans are constantly changing, constantly watching, constantly following, even though it is a standard in the world, they are ready to introduce some other knowledge and other forms that could improve their economy. The basis of their modern policy is a constant change, a change that they constantly potential. The Americans are champions in one mass higher education and huge sums invest in scientific research, which their industry is using extensively. I have to say that the SDPS is of great importance to education, we have a special plan, we have a so-called. a program called – The State of Education and we insist, as a Social Democratic Party, on constitutional changes that will allow not only basic education to be free and accessible to everyone, to say, mandatory to everyone, but also to be a high school education. We think it's the only way for this country to move forward. The trend of high education is present in the world in the '60s, '70s. It was recognized by Europe, recognised by South Korea, recognized by China, and I can say that today in South Korea almost all young people go to college. In China, about 7 million people went to college in 2001. It's a ten-year shift from a million to seven million. China plans to study about 50% of all young people in 2015. The largest benefit has societies that are developing from highly educated people and we have to insist on these models. As the brightest example of endurance and what should be done, I would mention our scientist, Mr. Miodrag Stojkovic's geneticist, who was told ten years ago that what he was doing would not work in Serbia. But by his work and perseverance, he showed that our brains are worth it and that we too can achieve envious results in very difficult and complicated scientific fields. There's one of his really interesting sentences that I want to read to you. He says: " Education and science are expensive, but not education is much more expensive. Care for young people is hard and long-term work, but if we don't take care of that stone in time, it will roll towards someone else's property." We have this problem today that our most qualified people, the most educated people, go where they're better, where they can start families, where they can live easier, and that's justified. We really need to develop true patriotism, which is all the strength to resist the consolidation of our country, our economy and in every way try to increase these people's wages and give better conditions for life and for work. It's the only chance this country can pull out, not to be a third-rate country and a place where the most invaluable projects, or products from the world, will only be sold. It's something that the most intelligent people in this country point to and something that some other countries recognize. You see, Arab countries are planning what they're going to do in 50, 100 years, what they're going to develop, even though they now live in the well-being of some of the resources they have. We need to get the strength to really change the conditions for young researchers, for young people who work to make something out of this country. That is why we support certainly the improvement of the law that creates creative educational models, such as institutions, training centres, resolution centres, different models, a unique information centre, study with work and all the positive that this law brings, and believe me, there are many positive things that this law involves and introduces to our education. In any way, not only must the flood of new universities and higher schools be stopped, but primarily the production of mediocrity, plagiarism, nepotism on the longer term, regardless of the measures the state will take. These institutions don't have a good prognosis. The graduate students from these universities and schools will not be able to meet the expectations of employers in practical work, and after a few generations students from such universities will be unwanted on the labour market. Such institutions, however materially beneficial at first, are attractive to students because of their easy study, will eventually lose their reputation and ruin. In state colleges, study is more serious, more demanding, but the truth works in these colleges we have recorded phenomena of receiving bribes, corruption, prescribed PhDs, as well as in private colleges, which undermines their reputation. Probably the most important and most qualitative part of this law that we are discussing today is that it opens up the possibility of educational institutions being in better contact with the economy. They enable private-public partnerships, they enable dual education in secondary vocational education. It's the best part of this law. Trust me. I come from Novi Pazar, and the same situation is in all the cities of Serbia, in all the smaller cities and all the regions that are defined for some small business, for micro businesses. The main problem of these people is the lack of quality professional strength, the lack of quality professional strength. This enables small entrepreneurs, textiles, shoes from Novi Pazar, people who work in the production of flat furniture, so that they can start their own capital, help schools and thus get to quality staff. Believe me, it's the most important thing this new law makes and it's something with which, this is a problem, with every entrepreneur in New Market I've talked to is the same problem. They don't have quality labour and more people are going out. We need to motivate these schools to do as much work as possible. In the end, I should say that as SDP, we will support this law, that as Bosniak, I am too pleased and that this year we are finished, the Bosnian language has been fully introduced as equal in Sandzak, currently around 14,545 high school students, primary schools attending schools in Bosnian. The process has been framed and all the problems we've had, and the one with the officers has been overcome. Finally, European institutions recognized Serbia, practically 2016 in the document, gave the European Charter on the Use of Minority Languages and Regional Languages a positive assessment and indicated that Serbia has made major shifts in the field, and this is indeed the result of this government. I want to say that as Social Democrats, we will support this law and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19702	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19703	New law again, old story. This is another law that illustrates the ineffectiveness of the government's work, and the MPs are asked to conceal this ineffectiveness by an urgent procedure. Therefore, the government's practice continues to deliver proposals to the National Assembly for laws to be passed by emergency procedure. This is also the case with today's two education laws, first law – Proposal for a law on the foundation of education and education systems and second law – Proposal for a law on higher education. The Serbian Radical Party believes that such a proposing practice is not on the line of a good and thorough, long-awaited and long-awaited reform of education. The decades of experience at the professors' jobs at all levels of education has me running to say a few sentences on this subject. By the way, I'm proud to mention that I was also a longtime professor of the far-known Math High School. Every happy and orderly state, as our country tends to be, treats the issue of education as one of the most important, if not the most important state issue. That is why we believe that these laws should not in any way be united, but rather have an individual discussion. Why is education so important? For the simple reason that education is the process of gaining knowledge, and knowledge is the best quality, most wanted and most expensive goods on the world market. We produce knowledge, but we don't use it, we own knowledge as a resource, but others use it, we offer young people work uncertainty, and we constantly invite them to demographic restoration. When a man finishes schooling, he doesn't have a job waiting for him, so he's forced to take any job, and not in the profession, and for a certain time, where he can't perfect himself professionally, where he can't advance in service, where he can't compete with some credit bank that would solve life's most important problems. What's left? He's got a road under his feet. Our next objection to this bill is the urgency of the process of its adoption. What's the reason for passing these laws by emergency procedure? Mr. Minister spoke yesterday about some reasons in favour of the urgency of the procedure, so I demand that he once again give us at least the most important reasons for such a proposal. People's MPs should not be interested in where the credentials or the malfunction on the line of communication occurred or the interruption of communication between individual actors throughout this story. I believe that one of the reasons for this haste and impatience of our colleagues, the premature Europeans, is for EU membership, and we want to regulate our laws, our system and our country, but we are categorically against EU membership, into this upside-down artificial creation, which is itself at the stage of confusion and destruction. I also think that as such, the EU is more important and more important that there is a good and reliable partner in Serbia than a bad member. In this first law, you stated that in the realization of educational-experienced work alongside textbooks approved by the minister may also be used by additional curricula approved by the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, but in practice we have a case that our children, especially in primary school, are overloaded by both the programme and textbooks. The Serbian Radical Party advocates education in which students, teachers and parents will not drown in the sea of information often and unnecessary. I would illustrate this to you only by one example, the other day the child was eight, nine years old, carrying a backpack full of books, and what fragile structures simply twisted from the weight. To our question whether these are all books that he owns answered – no, just on schedule for that school day. I would not now be opening a question of important or less important items, but it is a nonsensical question that children of this age use two or more textbooks or manuals. We've seen from this bill of law who can do everything in an educational-examination process. We believe that the best teachers, teachers and teachers who will have the experience of communication with young people and who will be adequately rewarded for their work must be chosen in order to remain in education, not as a practice so far that anyone who could find a prey elsewhere will leave the profession he loves. We advocate a school where children will be given the right to freedom more, to show some individuality, ability, creativity and idea, in which we will reward students with fives for their ideas, not for ours, for a school where children will be free of human beings. Listing the objectives of education, you listed below 18 as the goal of increasing the efficiency of education and education and improving the educational level of the population of the Republic of Serbia as a knowledge-based state. I might understand what you're saying, but somehow, simply, I don't think you've expressed it happily. I had a dilemma yesterday that I tried to resolve with my colleagues, and in the session break I spoke directly with Minister of Education Sarcevic, and it concerns the physical education fund. We believe that this weekly physical education fund is small and given the importance of physical education in the development of a young population, i.e. in the formation of a skeletal musculatur and mental structure of a man. That's why I'm asking Mr. Minister to re-evaluate the arguments for and against, to review the possibility of increasing this fund of lessons, regardless of all the restrictions that the Ministry has on funding an increased number of teaching staff, because somewhere in order to get something, something has to be taken away. By increasing the number of classes for the physical education of the young generation in Serbia, everyone is winning. When today's president of the state, in his capacity as prime minister, submitted his exposés to this parliament, said that in his time he was waiting in line to free the court for basketball, small football or volleyball, and his colleague Palma threw it to him, I remember well that our children are not playing in gym class today. Unfortunately, that's true. In this lure and flood of the Internet, electronic and fast communication and information, our children stopped socializing, playing and reading, our children began living in some virtual world where crime, violence, alcohol and drugs are dominant on social networks and media. Children playing with other children from different social and intellectual backgrounds exchange experiences. Passive sitting behind a computer that we adults imposed on them as a trend, in children creates tension and anxiety, and for several hours sitting in a non-physiological, irregular position, leads to various deformities on, above all, spines, visual failures, radiation. On the other hand, the child neglects social obligations. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education, apart from the transfer of the National Council under the authority of the Government, we believe that the new Bill of Law and the concept and methodologically does not differ from the old law, except in some small details. We believe that the new solution with the National Council of Government will improve the development and quality of higher education. The new solution will in practice lead to unnecessary isolation and alienation of this body and even its isolation. It is unnecessary to pass this law by emergency procedure and for the reason that it is applied in certain segments for months, from six months to two years, for example. the adoption of sublegal acts. We heard yesterday from a national MP who belonged to the ruling coalition, who was also the holder of the system in the previous period, that there were no problems with accreditations, and you literally say, I will read – in the period of application of the Higher Education Act, which has been changed and complemented on several occasions, 2008, 2011, 2012,13,15 and 2016, problems have been observed in relation to the process of accreditation and evaluation of the quality of higher education institutions. Since I've exceeded my time, and while we're here on the evaluation of these i.e. At Bologna, I must express our negative attitude. We even think that Bologna has brought in a lot of confusion, confusion and confusion, and has failed in our educated space, even leading to the collapse of the quality of education. So she brought a lot of calling and a little knowledge. We've got a lot of diplomas behind which there's no knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19704	Thank you, colleague Boyich. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Mr. Charcévich.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19705	Thank you, dear colleague Boyic. I'm only obliged to finish that replica yesterday, which we personally started with the information that this year we've increased the physical education fund from two plus one class to three and a half. Basically, the working list of teachers is physically different from mathematics, because he doesn't have written assignments, there's no supplementary, extra teaching, but that's why he's got enough sections. Our goal is to have children every day physically, means as an object, and as an exercise, as a sport. It's two components now, one object is physically returned and the one that was healthy, because children don't have it as a special object. We gave this to the schools like a lot of models. Included a lot of people from the profession to figure it out, means there are tournaments and all the other possibilities for children who can't have strong physical conditions, doing orientations, all the other things. I think this is how we started to raise the level. I'm not happy either, but at this point I think progress has been made. For decades, children have carried abnormally many books to school. I don't understand their pedagogues, primarily the school principal or the class elders, or just the teacher's council, however, who will prescribe what is mandatory. We're now when they were buying textbooks told what a mandatory package was. He's not for the fifth grade of 16 grand, he can buy for less than eight, and the rest is held by a school library. These are things that go into the domain of some kind of speculation store. I completely agree with you. We will be very soon in this home, I said yesterday about the amendments and additions to the Law on textbooks, because simply, competences for digital textbooks are not even put into this current law. Since there is a change of curricula and programs, it means it's an ideal opportunity to ask ourselves and what is read from the book, what is done in one way or another. We will re-send recommendations to insist on teachers, the teacher's council on that student's bag until we make it easier in much more constructive ways. I mentioned yesterday and the student association, because our goal is to save significant funds through cheaper textbooks to parents and easier bags, and to strengthen budgets for the free textbooks category. So, personally, I think it's all in some better trend, as you suggest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19706	Thank you, Minister. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19707	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, it is good that we have today's legislation in the field of education and education on the agenda. I must speak at the very beginning, and I will repeat this in the end that the SPS Group will support these laws. Time certainly brings new circumstances, new practices, certain innovations affecting the sphere of education and time, and therefore the laws that regulate this area are overcome, unsuitable and unmatched by what is real reality. So we've had the evolution of legislation in this area in recent times, starting in 2003, when it was brought in for example. The Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which started reforms in the field of education. We had a new law under the same name in 2009. Finally, in 2017, i.e. Now we're making a new law all over again, which regulates this matter, which speaks of the need for legislation to be modern and likened to what's real today with us and in a wider environment. Of course, I don't think our education system is as bad as it's often estimated, on the contrary. Our education system produces that so figuratively I say, i.e. it gives good educational products, i.e. experts who are often highly esteemed with an enviable educational quantum and usable and in a wider environment, both in European and in world space. Far from not being able to and should not be better, we should also create an environment that will improve our education system, including through legislation. Therefore, we MPs from the SPS welcome that the primary objective of adopting a new law is to achieve optimal results at each stage in the educational system of education and education. In this respect, it is important that all parts and all links in the field of monitoring, promotion, evaluation, expert-pedagogical control of the educational process function in full capacity. These tools, i.e. mechanisms, in order to raise quality, need to be developed and made effective, and without them it is not possible to do something good and something better to be expected in the educational process. Professional-Pedagogical surveillance should especially be improved. I'm going to say what's often in these discussions that surveillance in the field of education has almost returned from 2000 to here and that it's gradually rising now, but it has to be really at an envious level, because without that link, without that component, we can't fix what we have to do in the educational process. When it comes to the National Educational Council, we have a reduction in the number of members of the National Educational Council, and we would not have any objections here, except that we need instead of what is the category of community of music and ballet schools, to include a professional association, which is quite natural because professional associations are the most competent to participate in what is the role of the National Educational Council, which is the Association of Music and Ballet Pedagogists, which includes experts from both pre-school and secondary education from higher education, while the community of music and ballet schools is legal persons. Here we have a category of high school and a category of high schools. If it were to go to community schools, then it would be right for agriculture schools to ask for their experts, or not experts, but representatives of their community or community of high school chemistry, etc. After all, we will give that explanation through the amendment that we have submitted so that we will not discuss it now and enter into detail. When it comes to the autonomy of the institution, it is very important that in the spirit of what is practice in the European educational space, we have an improvement and expansion of the autonomy of the institution. One of the components of the institution's autonomy is the proposal, i.e. the selection of employees and representatives of the management body and of the expert bodies. We had this component in the current law, i.e. still valid current law, under one point that reads – the choice of employees and representatives of employees in the governing body and professional bodies. Besides, in other parts of the law, we have that so-called. the category of authorised representatives, i.e. entities who propose members of the school board, and therefore represent the category of autonomy, are indeed autonomously authorised proposings. There's no reason, if there is one, not to define it in the law. When we talk about managing authorities, about managing authorities, I will say that we never leave the SPS that there is a tendency for the promoter to politicise it and that it controls the composition that will manage and deal with issues of importance for the management and decision-making of the school. I think that before and now he's a legislator, and so are you, Mr. Minister, right now you're looking for some of the best solutions with the best intentions on the other hand, and we, too, personally, are looking at it in a way that we really want to improve that thing and make school an unlilysed institution, because it's of general interest and it doesn't belong to any political option. It should belong to what is the national interest of our country and what is the interest of society and of all individuals in it. The tripartite system, i.e. the composition of the school board, is certainly a good attempt that appeared in practice, not only with us, but also in other European countries, and that it gives good assumptions that one such body will not allow the politicisation of the school to be chosen. However, there are also certain problems, and these problems are in what the practice has shown over the past period, that pressures are often made, that the local self-government unit does not vote what the authorised proponent has proposed. a teacher's council on behalf of the collective and parent's advice on his part. I think it's a good thing at this point that we have the law to regulate this issue with a special attitude, that the local self-government unit is obliged to comply with the proposals of authorised proposings. In local self-government, unfortunately, we have cases of water policy and influence by those who have little knowledge of education, who are politically unlived and who, at all costs, want to bring to certain places those who are not staff and are not at the height of the task of participating in the governing body, nor are they in charge of the school. For these reasons, the law should further strengthen the clause that will guarantee autonomy in the proposal and respect what the proposal is for authorised proposings, but I would not go further into the details because we have some amendments here to explain why it is necessary. Personally, I think it is necessary for you, Mr. Minister, to bring in this section a certain instruction in what is the procedure for proposing and electing a governing body, so that there are no interpretations that can distort this intention as a legislator, to free ourselves from the danger of coming into that part and in that act to politicize and abuse. That's why you'd suggest it. We also look forward to the fact that, according to these new solutions, the minister is now in charge of electing a director on a proposal from the school board and may choose him or not. But, of course, you will have all the suggestions, or documentation of all those who applied for the director's post. So, we look forward to the fact that on the basis of certain criteria, the Director will be elected, based on what his result is, and the result is measured through what professional pedagogical supervision has done with the review and the management system of the director himself and the results of other teachers in the context of the school he, for example, managed in case he competes again. It is also very important that external evaluation, i.e. external evaluation, plays a significant role in the evaluation of what is the result of the work and that it will, for example, be re-elected or unselected director if it is a chamber that has already been in the previous period. It is certainly unacceptable and unacceptable that, for example, local self-government at all costs, disrespecting what is the selection procedure of the managing authority, through non-compliance with the proposal of authorised proposings, strives to elect a new school board to be instrumentalised in the service of politics. So it happened, for example, in my municipality to be replaced by a director who was externally evaluated, by the school ministry got the highest grade, and the director got the highest grade in the school management system. If we close our eyes to that, in front of that practice, then we do evil to ourselves and cut the branch where education sits. In the end, I'd like to mention something else that I think is very important to hear. You weren't here, Mr. Minister, when questions were asked here, but one MP spoke about what the results of Mathematical High School were, etc. I'm not going to repeat what he was saying, but I'm actually very impressed, and I believe that not only me, that the results of some schools, in this case, are about schools and schools, not only mathematically, of national importance for the Republic of Serbia, achieve very significant and great results that are worth attention at European and global level. I think that we need to find a way to promote it more, to show the public, and that for us it is pride and discipline, as for society, as for the state, such as, for example, significant great results that we are proud of, sports results at European and global level. So I would ask, Mr. Minister, that at least with services, i.e. with state-owned information, with a national frequency, there are times for popularising such achievements, and therefore for promoting such young people, which should certainly be supported in any way. I repeat that we will support these laws, the Law on Higher Education and the Foundations of the Education System, as well as you, of course, in what your intention is to improve and improve the education system in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19708	Thank you, colleague Mihaylovich. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19709	I'm sorry in advance, but I'm actually trying to be brought up and answer those questions for both you and the public. So I'm going to do it quickly and efficiently. I agree, I've initiated with the Minister of Information and Culture the story that television with national frequency conveys excellent examples of school practice, not just top-notch results. That's what a lot of countries do, and that's a good story. I think they even have an obligation, that they got a license to be nationalized, where they have to have a good area of education. We're doing them a favor. One minute I started that topic, and we're gonna insist on it. When it comes to any director, the external evaluation is only one of the indicators, very important, because we said that if he already has a unit and a two, the director cannot be taken seriously into consideration during the competition. He can compete, he can increase his competences, he hasn't been convicted forever, he's acquired a license and when he gets a license, he's increased competences. You don't need a special explanation, everything in the law is very precise. So, all procedures are the same as they were, completely from the competition, from reporting, by having to be more serious about giving the program and that everyone, the local self-government and the people at school, are assessing it. It's that change, and not now this one suits us because we don't have to work, this one fits because he's good with us at the bar, or whatever the third one is, either he's on the party line for us or he's not. I'm talking again, the public at work. On the Dositei portal, when everything stands and explains, there will be no such dilemma. It is very clear which competencies he must achieve. So at this point, we're fighting a small war with people who cover up jobs, who cover up the number of students in the department, because that's what raises the formula for a larger number of employees. I'm not against most employees, but I can't break the law because of it, and I can't answer whether we have any more unsettled people or not. It's my obligation together with the unions, we have a signed special and collective agreement. So that's all the reasons and about this whole structure should invite people to look at all the elements of that man's work. It will be the main bearers of the reform, with everyone else who is, so we extended their mandate, preserved their privilege of the place of watch, to be relieved of those some blackmails at half the term – whether I'm going to stop doing quality work now, so I'm going to court myself. So, you don't have to, you do quality work, and it only delegates you to the story further. That was the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19710	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. The word has a folk letter from Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19711	Thank you. I want to talk about this law not only as a national MP, but as an educational worker, because I am particularly proud, for almost 15 years, as it is said, of carrying a diary, or as a professor of English language in high school. I know a great deal about the life of educators. Our society often lacks much understanding for educators, but they tend to say that anyone who doesn't understand how it is for educators would be enough to maintain only one hour. I can tell you, even though I know it wouldn't be easy for many to do it, that classing is probably the easiest part of the job of an educator. They are burdened with numerous extracurricular obligations. Every reform and everything that happens in school breaks over their backs. Many have asked me these days if we're going to talk about extensive teaching programs, if we're going to talk about the weight of the school bag, which was already mentioned here today. All I can say is that certainly no educator is in the interest of the teaching program looking what it looks like right now. Because how can you work when you have at 72 hours, let's say, if you have two hours a week, you don't have almost one hour to rebuild the material, to determine the material, but every teaching class you have to do a new teaching unit, or almost every hour? You have, say, 50 or 60 new teaching units, and 68 or 70 classes during the school year. Educational workers are constantly pressed between the demands of parents, children, states, demands to be made to them and, as I said, every reform and every change in the system goes over their backs. As a result, every educator fears a constant amount of so - called technological surpluses and loss of work. Believe me, there is almost no educational worker who is not in constant fear of happening to him because whether to change the number of lessons, whether to change the program, whether to change anything or to pass a new law like this, they are constantly in fear of whether or not they will have a job. That's why we think, we're going to vote against this law and we think that the law that's been passed in this way, no dialogue, no real dialogue, and with education itself, with all the bodies, with the unions, etc. It is not acceptable and we do not think that it solves practically any of the problems of education, but it will only open up new problems and, unfortunately, I do not have much time to talk about it, but working on how the educational council, as well as the school board, I will try to say more about it through the amendments, but in any case we think this can only open up new opportunities for politicisation and corruption, and it will not solve any of the problems that exist in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19712	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go, Mr. Charcévich.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19713	What you now have as a practice was brought by the National Educational Council and this pattern of work. It is the autonomy of the institution and of you as a teacher that gives you the right to create it and that we expect common outcomes that you will first only evaluate, and then someone externally. I think that's exactly the change you're talking about, and there's no safe fear of doing what it was like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19714	Thank you. National MP Snježana Bogosavljevic Boskovic has a word. She's not present. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go, Dr. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19715	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable fellow MPs, and yesterday and today we have one quality debate when it comes to the proposal of the Law on Higher Education in general because we haven't heard from these principle debates the fundamental dissension of any of our colleagues, but we have, above all, some criticism of the urgent procedure of passing this law which has become a mantra which tells us that we are essentially very effective because we have a large number of laws that we are permanently passing from session to session on the basis of the dynamics that are simply giving us the time in which we are located, but also a government that works very effectively with our ministries. Therefore, it may be a great criticism for someone, and for us it is a great honor that we have sessions of the Assembly in which we can discuss matters of great importance, and one of the most important topics is education. What we all need to understand as a society is to reconcile ourselves with a reality that today looks so much different than it did five and ten years ago and 15 years ago. You are witnessing in a world of major not only economic change, but geopolitical change, political earthquakes of major forces in terms of leadership and how to conduct politics, state policy and economic policy. Let's not talk about the big expansion of IT technology with which the inevitable technical sciences are rapidly growing, the economy has to adapt to that expansion, or that fourth industrial revolution, and social sciences, by nature, things, always go for technical. It is therefore very difficult to talk today about education reform, changes that we must follow as a society. Let me tell you something else - and the developed EU countries are talking today about changing the education system. One Germany, which we say is the country that has the best education system, is today in public talking about changing the way education works. So 80% of Serbian citizens in the polls are saying that their children would like to be sent to Germany for education because they believe it is one of the countries that has the best organised education system. Why? Because somewhere we all recognize as parents, that those with their diplomas have guaranteed jobs. This is precisely because a combination of education and economy must exist, that we must produce personnel, teach students and students that their interests will function in the future of the economy and the development of the economy itself. That means we have to get back together with having continuous learning for the rest of our lives. That's what simple teachers and teachers have to deal with, that every change in the education system should exist. If she's not there, simply, we won't get the personnel that will be able to match our functioning of society. So I think at all these bill proposals that you've given I don't see as something bad that they might experience some modifications today, but maybe in a year and two days. I think it is one good basis that Serbia will have results when it comes to the manufacturing sector in general and the economic results. We produce, if we provide growth of 3% to 5% each year, if we reduce the budget deficit and public debt to below 60%, we become a competitive economy, a country that will be able to stand side by side with EU members after 2020. That is why the strategic document is, in general, the development of education by 2020, which was adopted in 2012, is essentially our basis, which is the path to go by 2020, as regards education, but also the path that our society should go after 2020. What you've given, Minister, as a concept of the overall realization of this strategy, as the legal proposals that we have on the agenda today, shows that teachers, parents, students, but also the state, ministries, local self-government, are all on the same task. This task is to help all of us to give the best effects in this system, to increase this quality system, to increase efficiency. And how do we do that? It's by establishing certain mechanisms. Your mechanism for establishing the concept of entrepreneurial spirit and in the system of education essentially provides opportunities for all those who think that after receiving certain diplomas here should simply go abroad to change their position completely. I will tell you that last week we had joint meetings with European parliamentarians on the implementation of the SAA and that we had the opportunity to hear from our countries that were once members of the SFRY, such as Slovenia, that there are also certain initiatives of students who end up in some prestigious colleges not working in Slovenia, where the standard is quite, in a certain way, much higher than in Serbia, where the average of the salary is 1,200 euros, that they also want to go to developed countries to find certain jobs there. But it's just one trend at all, not only in Europe, but in the world, that migration and career movement happen so-called. What we do here in Serbia is we all get the strength to introduce and implement all these changes you've made as legal proposals. It's very difficult, especially since we have a situation where teachers always feel neglected when you're looking at that ultimate part of personal income, that it's very hard to live. But the changes have been inevitable since the last five years and they are seen in society and they feel that they are much better alive than they were when before 2012, when there were 200,000 fewer jobs, when there were 200,000 more people who went into retirement, when it came to the fact that there was no factory that wanted to, no investor who wanted to come to Serbia. So a lot has changed. This gives us the right to say that there will certainly be improvements in quality and efficiency. And that when someone honors you that now the whole system of decisions is being passed on to the minister, it's just not true. I'll tell you, and after 2000, the minister signed consent to appoint a director, except he had no chance at all to make his own court based on such a decision. You know how the election procedure goes. It is known that there is simply a competition, that the school committees that are delegated under the 3.3.3. local self-government, the teaching council, and the section relating to the school boards, are making a decision on the selection of directors that, based on these choices, you, as a minister, are giving a certain, final signature on the document. Therefore, that procedure has not changed. It has nothing to do with SNS or any party, and it has to be kept talking. Let me tell you, even in 2000 and 2010, all directors boasted that they were members of the DS. Perhaps they are not members of the SNS today, but simply seek political support to implement their programmes. What you are now introducing, this particular license, that with their integrity and their knowledge as directors can be chosen, means you are giving them a chance, an equal chance for everyone to compete, but that based on their knowledge they can compete for such jobs. And, I think this way you're trying to throw out a complete policy as one of the segments that's been somewhere one of the criteria that makes someone should be elected or not. And I think you need to talk more and more in public, because first of all, you came from the private sector, which you know how it is, to just put the profession first, and to get the policy out of our education system, and that's why I think it's very important that we talk about this concept today. As far as higher education is concerned, I can only tell you that it will be very difficult to change the system of higher education because somewhere teachers are always used to moving in those circles of the already seen system of function and it is very difficult to bring fresh blood into the sense of young professors to become an integral part of such a circle of professors where their perhaps youthful opinion and attitude will show and be accepted. But I think that the idea of reducing the mandate of a rector to three years or a dean is very good because they will be reassessed by decisions on the conduct of scientific institutions themselves, and ultimately speed up scientific research. What this government has shown, and this has given focus and emphasis on innovation, has therefore formed a separate ministry and has shown that this is the result of the work of higher education institutions. And that we students and students ourselves have to motivate more students to apply new learning methods, because to interest students or students today, in addition to this development of IT technology, to take to read, which I say books, that's the biggest problem, because first we don't have that much time, we live in a fast system of functioning at all. We don't have time to work out now, after an hour of reading, make ourselves a concept and figure out what we've read, because that's just the pace of our lives, and now to motivate students to really get that functional knowledge together with teachers, and that's going to be the hardest task, and if we have in colleges most of the professors who are used to old working methods, and each of them admits, and now find that balance between new and old, and going ahead with the big steps is actually going to be very difficult. We all need, above all, to change ourselves in that part as professors and in working with students, because they're looking for new methods of work, they're asking us to give them functional knowledge and that's what you've tried, so I see this new law to give that seal of all of it. That's why I congratulate you on that, and I think you should support it and every next change that's been made should be in raising the scale for these standards that it sets today. That is why in the voting day this should be supported, and I think that only what is the essence of change should be answered in the debate on amendments, not what some want to accept as a politicisation of this topic, to show that this assembly majority has no vision of what the future of higher education should look like or even the development of education in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19716	Thank you, Dr. Tomic. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19717	I am also obliged for the public to say that after legislative solutions, after the development of a new curricula and programmes and the start of reform modes in 2018 at the level of the first base of the fifth grade in the fully defined reform system and the first medium. There's a big job coming up, and you're right about Alexander, and that's teacher training. We have tens of thousands of people who will undergo certain trainings and we have applied for the European funds that are ready for it. So this job involves really the hardest part of working behind all of this, and that just has to lead to this first start and goal. Of course, bringing this kind of management structure, solving the current bad state, and really, who convinces me that until now politics has not interfered with the selection of directors or anything else, I'm out of here right now. So everything else was more important than the profession. So, there is, I repeat all the competences that this man has to fulfill, and that's why there are training for them, schools for them, licences. Everyone's got a chance again, not the way they've been. And there's a procedure we've said that multiple times, which is exactly the same, completely democratically preserved. So it just appears, like in German legislation and many others who looked at Germans the same way, to make this another filter, did you honor what it says in the law and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19718	Thank you, Minister. Replica, Alexandra Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19719	Thank you. On several occasions, counterpart Tomic mentioned the DS in a very negative context, and that's why I volunteered for the replica. Well, about what she said about education, about laws and about DS is exactly the same as her claim that people live much better today than before 2012. Well, when we talk about these educators that we should talk about today, we should say that their salary by 2012 was 500 euros, and at a time of booming now that they live much better, they now have a salary of 370 euros. That's not just the case with teachers and teachers, it's the case with all those who do fair and valuable work. I believe the people you know live much better. I believe that the people in your party, their godfathers, brothers, aunts and officials, live much better. Well, here are some who can't even explain how many aunts have given them hundreds of thousands of euros to buy their apartments from hundreds of squares, but say, Mrs. Tomic, that people live much better, really insults intelligence and not just us here, but every citizen who thinks anything with his own head. The same is your claim that, behold, people are leaving, young people from Serbia, but my God, people are leaving everywhere, so in Slovenia that young people are leaving, we don't need to worry about Serbs leaving. I'm worried that young people are leaving Serbia. I'm so worried that you won't let them stay. And I'm terribly worried that you're doing everything you can to get them out of this country and what you're thinking, with how we hear that's not a problem. It's a terrible problem, and you're just making it worse.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19720	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go. If you can just sign up, please. Here, I deleted the list, you can do it again. I only have Mr. Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19721	Article 104, which speaks when word and possibility of replication are obtained. So it's very clear in point 1. - if, in its presentation, the Members of the People's Party have a convincing expression of the MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and last name or function, that is to say, incorrectly interpret his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to reply. So, Aleksandra Tomic spoke exclusively as a Member of the law's proposals. She delivered her political opinion, the SNS opinion on why it is necessary to support the draft laws that are in session today. I don't see how you've managed ingenuously to figure out a way to give MPs the right to a replica, which spoke of everything, except for what might give them the right to a replica. She was talking about someone's aunts. I don't know, maybe she was talking about Aunt Bozidar Djelic, I don't know these family relations here in parliament, which in some way might be related to Jerkov, because I don't know who the aunt is anymore, but what Alexandra Tomic was talking about, except in one sentence where she mentioned that she has a school director who are members of DS, which is not prohibited, because I really don't understand these new tendencies here in parliament and in political life that people are being banned beyond those provisions in the Constitution when someone can't be a member of the political party, that everyone stops being members of some parties and that we get some "telebise" that are now going to get some kind of functions. Really, I can't understand that. Help me as someone who might understand something. I'll wait for your explanation, see if I can get back to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19722	Only because of the party's mention, I wanted, of course, to give the opportunity to reply to my colleague Jerkov, of course, thinking that she would talk about the bill, and that the replica, of course, as it is the order and procedure, would be directed at what Dr. Aleksandra Tomic said, and it was really about the bill. Do you want the National Assembly in voting day to plead? (Maya Gojkovic: No, I understand. Thank you very much. The injury of the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19723	I thank the chairman. Therefore, the position of Article 104, which President Gojkovic reminds us of every time we advertise the violation of Article 104, reads about the use of the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19724	I'm sorry, but you can't, colleague Jerkov, to the same member that you're pointing at.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19725	Then Member 103, because colleague Gojkovic abused me, I suffered two injuries from the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19726	We can't bid now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19727	We can, because you've injured two members... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19728	Let's start discussing the bill... (Alexandra Jerkov: Shame on you. ) Thank you very much. Alexandra Tomic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19729	I thank the chairman. If what hurt someone, say - a better life in the last five years, then I accept criticism, but because of the citizens of Serbia to tell the truth, that the salary of 500 euros was paid by teachers and teachers in primary and secondary schools at the time when the euro course was 84 dinars, when it came to 120, 121, 122, and 123, it fell to 330 euros. Therefore, if you have funding that you do not have for two weeks to share even salaries to professors, teachers, pension pension pensioners, then it is clear what economy we are talking about by 2012, so in any case when the decline of activity was practically 3.6% and now that growth is somewhere at 2.7% last year is a big difference and it is safe to live better, but I don't know whose aunts are now the focus of the debate in the Education Act. As far as we're concerned about the students leaving, we are. That's why we do something, we open up innovation centres where 2,000 young engineers are employed in collaboration with German companies that will have salaries in the IT sector over 2,000 euros, unlike those who were until 2012, we do something, we fight for those children to stay here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19730	Thank you. Based on what, colleague Jerkov? There is no opportunity to give you a replica now, nor did Mrs Tomic mention you by name and last name, nor did she mention your party, I really have no basis. Thank you for understanding. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is a shame and it is a shame that the assembly majority did not understand the importance of these two draft laws and why the MPs were not allowed to at least in that regular time provided by the Rules of Procedure to discuss these issues, especially separately on these two laws, since the minister showed understanding and desire to discuss with the MPs, to exchange arguments, but these ministers of yours, they didn't allow you either, because we don't have enough time. If they happen to know the data that is devastating, the statistical data, that Serbs fall into the most illiterate and uneducated people in Europe, we might have a little more understanding. Half our population, unfortunately, has only primary school or is functionally illiterate. So 20% has only a few completed classes, and only 7% has higher education. This is something to worry about, and this is something that the Ministry and the Government should work on, of course, and the MPs, above all, because they bring and adopt laws. The EU-level data are similar, 20% of young people in the EU and 15% of adults have not mastered the basics of reading and writing. I state this information, because since 2000 all regimes have insisted on introducing some EU standards into ours, otherwise, a good education system and since that first Dossmanian minister, Gaša Knezevic, has been on the move and has not been stopped to this day. That is why it is hypocritical when the previous authorities also object to something of the present, because they have shown in this segment that they have the same programmes, the same attitudes, but the question is who is implementing the EU's devastating policy in what period. In our time, when Gassa Knezevic was a minister, we asked him if he considered himself, was he a trained man? He said he did. Does he consider himself educated? He said he did. He was a university professor, he was a minister. All of this was done by someone, as he claimed at the time to the nauradic system of education and he started with a denacification and nothing has changed since then. You have no right to say either you ministers or the majority of the congregation – we have found it. But you're the ones who participated in the ruling majority campaign, promised to change everything, to get better, to get in the education system, that there would be no more problems as before. So, that's what you're expected to do, not shoulder-tips, and we found that. What do we care what you find? You took the obligation to change, not to continue what you found. You're in exactly the same position, and that's why you don't change anything too much. A lot of the EU's naradan, and even a lot of what's been taken over, they don't use in their education system either. You remember all those scary gasha knezevic workshops, when the 13-year-old girls threw the brashalters to the boys, took them to Fruska Gora, for some work trips. Did you forget that? We're not, we're not forgetting anyone's sin. Teachers have to listen, participate in some workshops, ministers, give them some licenses. These workshops are held by some girls, who look like half-starlets, and then they come together, teachers, educated people, end up regular schools, higher or higher, and then they come, so let's get starlets and say, "Hey, guys!" All of you now have to greet me and then tell them three sentences, she gets money from EU funds, and they get a license if they're there, if they don't have the stomach to listen to something like that where they get the license. There's nothing in this bill or in your debate, Mr. Minister. We must not forget the government of Vojislav Kostunica and the Bologna Declaration, which has destroyed our generations. It was in the former Yugoslavia that Sušvarica destroyed several generations, and now Bologna. You know, there's no greater damage to society than destroyed generations in the area of education. The destroyed economy, factories, crime, responsible government can compensate, but the destroyed generations can't. You have accepted what is the EU's goal, to make Serbia as many formally educated people as possible, and essentially uneducated, and they are the easiest to manipulate. Such are the ones who have completed some high schools in the meantime, they are in various state functions, so you send them to the white world to teach EU officials there and they bring us here and introduce some standards absolutely unacceptable to this people and to our national interests. You didn't talk to the Ministers about school security, and that's a very important topic. I will try to speak in several areas in general because we do not have time to discuss these proposals in more detail, but the SRS have submitted 98 amendments, and through these amendments we will talk about individual members and we believe the minister will convince him to adopt most of our amendments, that at least as many of these draft laws look like something. So school security is at the lowest possible level and you'll agree. You've been trying a lot of things. From some student dinar to be paid by guards, from cops who just walk around, you know, unfortunately that even in elementary schools behind schools there are kids getting high, bringing drugs, that it's peer violence to get more and more waved. Something has to be done to stop it. It's late when something happens, and because of some political points, it's possessed by the media, so it's asking to pass, I don't know, Alex's law, Zoya's law, Maria's law, etc., it's insulting those victims, and the children who are victims in one way or another of those peer violence. The laws have to systemically solve the problem and then we don't need to pass those individual laws when a case happens. You talk about digitization, about networking, we support it, we support every technological advance. But to network on the territory of the municipality of all schools and to have someone sitting behind a computer in an office in the Ministry of Interior and to see what's going on in every school's yard at all times. Don't hire retired former guards or workers who have no right to do anything, but only there to open or close the door. There's got to be something to raise the level of security in schools. There have been objections about the minister choosing the director. It is indeed a serious objection by the minister and it is completely contrary to the decentralisation represented by the SRS. How will you, as minister, stand behind the election of directors, e.g. in Bolevci, in Pukovec, in Brajici, in Ritopek, in Drenovo, in Vrba, and not to count, I look like someone if I start to list villages in Serbia, and I know a lot of them? Local self-government should be in the selection process of directors, but first of all, school boards have to do it, but not the way you predicted them. The school board, where you have three representatives of local self-government, three representatives of parents and three representatives of teachers are a very bad solution. You know, local self-government, unfortunately it uses its current power, there some local kabadiahs, local powers in the community use their power and abuse it on these school boards. Local powerful men who have a little more money come to school and say, "Come on, I'll turn the whole school around, and after that painting he'll be considered the boss of the school and the director and the teacher, his kid can't get in the way of looking, his kid is threatening teachers, he's sending all kinds of messages, that kid can't get a bad grade, he's living on other kids, and then this parent comes in the jeep and says, "I've been painting this school, I guess I'm asking myself something here, and not that teacher who's in charge of education and child education. We're not afraid that you'll be setting up executives exclusively from the SNS, we know that's how it's gonna be. But we, in contrast, are Serbian radicals, unlike others, are not hypocrites. We don't mind having people who are party members on all functions, so we all want teachers and directors and doctors in our parties, and why would that be a shame? So it's not gonna be a party member anything contagious. We're very proud to be members of the SRS. We have officials, who are both at the local level and at the Republic level, who are educational workers and who can be directors and we don't mind that some director is because he's a member of the ruling party, but we have a problem with the one from the municipality calling the director and saying – if you want to continue to be the director, you have to join our party and teachers have to paint your ballot that they voted for the advances. That can't happen, and that's what the Ministers do. I can't speak my name because of those people who would already be flying this afternoon if you mentioned it. But I will set an example of a director who was a director and a member of the DSS, as soon as the yellow ones came, was invited to the municipality and said – you are doing a great job. You'll stay as director, but it's a condition for you to move to the DS. The director, as a result, moves to the DS and campaigns DS at school, among children, among parents, among fellow teachers. Come forwards, that director says – I won't humiliate myself anymore. I'm not going to go to these promotions at the expense of not being the director. They invite him to the community, come back an hour later with his eyes down and tell his colleagues what to do, I had to. That can't be done by ministers, if you think you can do it from the level of the ministry in all of Serbia, there's no talking about it. As for these proposals in law, various institutions, etc., which you predicted, we asked to delete them all and we will discuss it individually, but in principle to tell you, yesterday is your Professor. Seselj said that you need to increase the number of inspectors and that is a good solution, and you instead of increasing the number of inspectors, you have five-six of these institutions, as they are already called...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19732	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19733	... Each of them has a director, each of them has no idea how many employees. So you've wrongly set one and the other draft laws, and hopefully, here, I'm ending up with this sentence, that you'll accept some of our amendments. I didn't make it, of course, to say that the educators are on a beggar's stick, to work under very difficult conditions. So do something. Don't just brag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19734	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19735	Thank you. Just for a little while, to agree with you, the safety of students in schools is one big priority and that in a year we've made some moves. It's not enough and we're including a lot of lectures. The presence of school cops is bigger in schools. In some schools in earlier times, the school itself was able to solve the situation with good teachers and good cooperation, but we will work on it. It's simply not a question of the law. There are various normative acts, the rules are passed and that is the degree of good organisation of school, but also co-operation with the MUP. There's a lot of tribunes and programs. About the license, don't lose that license, automatically, because he didn't finish all those seminars. So it's going to be completely different. They're being seduced by something that exists and must exist, because if you stop them, then really who's bringing in the preparation process of plans and programs? At the inspection, I'd like to be able to increase, but the Employment Prohibition Act is making it impossible for me at this point. I said a year ago that I personally think that school administrations that have been brought to very few people, inspections are a tool for us to know, because they cover 17 larger territories. They're small ministries, so it's something that's our main tool, and they have great insight into all schools, self-government, because that's where 50 schools come in, which is absolutely certain that you can observe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19736	Thank you, Minister. The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19737	Minister, let me teach you how to increase the number of inspectors without hiring new people. You've announced a large number of resignations for educators. Any one of these educators could be an educational inspector at a certain level. Don't fire people, hire them, so they'll be better off with them and schools and a complete education system, and especially don't, Minister, make mistakes about your soul. Don't fire people before you finish the school network. You have announced in this bill that the school network will not be completed for another year. Then don't fire people. Here, let them work as inspectors until you finish the school network, and then you'll see if you really need to fire these people or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19738	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19739	I don't quit on anyone, Veronica. There's math, number of students, departments and how it's financed, students by the number of students, by accreditation. So that's neither my will nor my executioner. I don't do that. Secondly, funding from the budget only leaves us with such opportunities. Of course, if I were wondering, if there was a lot more money, we could talk about it, and I'd probably support what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19740	Thank you, Minister. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Maletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19741	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Minister with fellow Members, the honourable MPs, indeed, was held yesterday and today by various discussions regarding these two very important laws. First of all, I will only briefly refer to the many criticisms that were related to the appointment of the director under the new draft law and I am really asking the question on which many opposition MPs concluded that when the directors of the SNS are clearly in the law, most of them have not read the bill's proposals, that the procedure is exactly the same as it has been, that all the factors who have participated in the selection of directors so far, except with one newspaper that the minister is now verifying such decisions. Perhaps such thoughts of opposition MPs come from where they have such a life philosophy, that they would probably place their close relatives, such as sisters, in the RIK or fathers in the OIK, and would therefore probably appoint their relatives and close people as school principals? It certainly does not stand, and this bill does not question such decisions. We also saw yesterday during the debate and today when they came to the debate in the principle that a large number of MPs did not read this bill and that they were on a case-by-case basis, using the subject of education as one important and, I would say, a crucial topic for the social development of a serious country, to collect small political points. So we could hear from a colleague who was, unfortunately, the chairman of the Committee on Education in this Parliament, who, several times, can repeat himself to understand education and then really think that it is, but it is not really true. She gave great criticism to dual education. I am really asking now whether in 2000, when everyone was racing to get closer or in some way, without thinking, support everything that came from Germany or from some Western countries, why isn't it working today, and why does a colleague question dual education, which is the backbone of a German society? I think dual education is one of the essential items that needs to be introduced into Serbian society and on which it is necessary to build a secondary vocational education. There is no way to say that it serves to abuse and exploit young people who would thus be employed. It's one really stupid thing no one can seriously understand about education to say. Dual education is necessary for young people to come out fully equipped for work that they can find on the labour market. That this is what the situation is saying and that in the last five years, thanks to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a number of investors have been brought into the country and thus there have been changes that condition changes and education, and it is quite logical that it is necessary to introduce dual education into our education system in order for students who are more prepared to go to the labour market and really take part. If someone defines himself as a secondary vocational education, I don't see what's controversial about him getting the highest quality education that comes next to him, and I don't see what it's like to talk about that is the stumbling block of higher education. If someone decided to finish secondary vocational education, I don't see why we should prevent him from doing so and if he can find satisfactory employment in the labour market? I will, above all, return to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System as a single roof law that makes up the roof law for the education system. In addition to dual education, it should be pointed out that this new draft law brings a few more newspapers. One of the newspapers is the introduction of an innovative way of working and introducing training facilities. The previous MP spoke very uglyly, to express myself politely and culturally about this paper that was introduced into the law, and this illustrates their really unserious approach to such a major factor of social order in Serbia, what education is. There is no way to mention the starlets in the category when the law mentions workshops that were introduced with the aim of those students who are studying for teaching in their education process in a practical way how it should be really when they come to teach at school or at some educational institution. I really don't understand any comment from the previous pay phone that talked to one unserious tone about this positive paper that's being introduced into the law. Also, another information system is being introduced that is very important for education and besides it is also a unique educational number that the student will have as his personal number throughout the entire education system in which he participates. In addition, it is really important that this law introduces one, I would say, responsibility of all participants, or factors in the education system. It means both directors and teachers, but also children and parents. Very often there were two different ends of parents and on the other side of the school. Indeed, by this law, in one beneficial way all factors are classified as essential factors that should contribute to better education by working together, but also to bear certain responsibilities that this system and this process provides and implies. I would say that many of the MPs who spoke here forgot the period while the former regime was in power. Speaking of directors who would, in some way, be damaged in this election by a new system, I would only remind myself of several failures made by the former regime when it was in power, say, in the province, which was one of the founders of secondary schools in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or the northern part, which was the territory of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, when the directors in several times worked different malversions, the province had failed to replace them and set up a forced administration, so it was legally made possible for them as founder. Then the question arises – who is actually breaking the law, who is going to break the law, and is this bill really good? Of course it is good, because everything that was possible to get through some passages has been corrected by this law and will allow for a truly better quality roofing process that will be further regulated in other legal acts and sublaws. When it comes to the Law on Higher Education, I will be brief and say that in this part very clearly defines and edits the accreditation system, which is the law that the former regime passed when it was in power was really passable, so to speak, and has not well defined all the ways in which accreditation can be implemented and under what conditions. It is now very clear that higher education institutions can only be authorised once the accreditation system has passed and it is quite clear that there are still no permitting any failures to do so. In Voting Day, I will support these two laws, because I think they are really good solutions and certainly a large number of MPs in the previous period talked about the need to adopt a whole new law on higher education and the basics of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19742	Thank you, colleague. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19743	I am speaking as someone of special importance attaches to quality education, who owns a degree in the world's best University of Harvard and as a member of the Harvard Club of Serbia's Management Board, which each year grants two scholarships to the best students of the final years of primary studies. These scholarships bear the name "Drage LJocic" and "Kedomyla Mijatovic", the bright characters of Serbian history, for which I am unfortunately certain that most of those who are wheezing with patriotism do not know who they were. Education should, as Sydney Harris said, turn mirrors into windows, but I fear that in Serbia mirrors are extremely firm and resilient and only see our depraved faces. One is a mirror of television programs and tabloids, which promote proscration, violence and low passion. The second mirror is a mirror of political leaders, who are unable to solve life’s problems, constantly produce tensions and the atmosphere of fear. The third mirror is a mirror of political similarities and incompetence, which strengthens us and, as a consequence, has the highest brain drain rate in the world. Given this environment, this law, with some of the positive technical innovations it provides, will not fundamentally change anything in the education system, which is not in line with modern world trends, but will only cement it. I'm afraid there will be substantial changes in this area only when the above-mentioned mirrors are broken. These laws in particular cannot lead to the necessary changes, as they are restrictive and lead to centralised decision-making, politicisation and restrictions on autonomy. What's most important is that no system should be based on the well-meaning of a man, however well-intentioned he is. I'd also like to refer to two statements from the minister yesterday. The first is that a compromise has been reached on these laws with the interested. Since the Belgrade University's Rector said only one-third of the Council's remarks were accepted, that the trade unions are against, that more than 9,000 people who have completed professional studies will lose their status by law, I fear these laws will cause harsh reactions. The second statement is that since 2012, there has been no action plan for the implementation of the National Education Strategy, which best testifies to the results of the government's work and confirms that there is a greater cost of education than ignorance, which, unfortunately, we have witnessed in the last five years. Finally, the well-intentioned suggestion of the minister, to pay attention to the dictionary he uses, because of the weight of those words he pronounces as minister of education, not to use words such as: a bunch of problems, checkouts, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19744	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19745	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll start with Plato if these others don't think they have exclusive rights to old sayings. Plato said in his "State" and pledged to educate managers, soldiers, producers, or peasants, craftsmen and peasants through a strict system of education. I trained in a similar system, when we had a school of students in the economy, when we had a three-grade metal school, when we had machine, technical schools, when we had electrical engineering schools, we had electricians, plumbers, when we had a school of students in the economy, i.e. tailors, merchants, hairdressers, everything that should have been done by business and craftsmanship. As someone who was educated at the time, I don't remember Plato. I believe my colleague Micunovic remembers, because it was three centuries before the new era, as I remember. But I'd start my own exposure with a transfer of knowledge. Who is training, and what should we pay attention to? It's on a lecturer's tub. If we want to pass on some knowledge, then even teachers must be teachers, teachers, teachers, they must be students at the same time. There's that saying: learning is like rowing upstream, as soon as you stop rowing, you go backwards. So is education. A teaching staff that does not train in these quick technological times does not stand a great chance of passing that knowledge on to others.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19746	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19747	I'm closing up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19748	Thank you. National MP Zoran Dragisic is not in the O.R. National MP Zoran Krasic doesn't have time. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19749	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an old Chinese proverb says: “If you think about the future in one year, sow rice. If you're thinking about the future in 10 years, plant a tree. If you mean the future in 100 years, educate the people." This Chinese wisdom in a very beautiful way shows that the foundation of the future of every society is education. These laws try to correct many illogicalities and mistakes, willfully or unwittingly made in not so long ago. The period after 2000 was devastating for all spheres of social life, including education. Education loses its basic social educational role and turns into business. It's all for sale, and academic honesty becomes the subject of trade. Private colleges are emerging, and knowledge, morality and responsibility are marginalized and the central role in the education system is being seized, everything is being insulted, including diplomas and titles. Through the Law from 2005 to 2012 the private university has a direct impact on the development of higher education and then the reform of the entire society begins in 2013. In the case of Belgrade Business School, it can be seen that society reform also has a positive impact on the work of this higher school of vocational studies. By 2013 the Belgrade Business School is a legacy of corruption and social irresponsibility, morally and professionally failed, without social reputation. In 2013 Professor Dr. Djuro Djurovic, who insists on the principles of reform, work, knowledge, responsibility, savings and the fight against corruption and crime. Compared to the business and results I personally had an insight into, the Belgrade Business School Council also delivered the final accounts to the budgetary inspection, both the Ministry and the DRI. It clearly shows that for three years 2014, 2015, 2016, the school's operating costs and operating costs were reduced by 365 million dinars or over three million euros compared to the previous period, without the school being lacking. In the first four months, by mid-2014, two new study directions, public administration and tourism management were accredited. There were five of them, and now there are seven of them. At this point in these two directions, there are about 1,000 students. The Belgrade Business School has met the requirements and received an accreditation programme for masters of professional business economy studies, which allows for teaching to be realized and a 300-point diploma. This year, the Belgrade Business School accredited a study programme by a professional IT engineer from a technical technological scientific field and thus obtained a condition for changing the organisational form of business and requested the establishment of the first Academy of Professional Studies. In the fight against corruption and crime and social irresponsibility, 28 cancellations were given, and the school received 21 of the 22 trials, indicating the legality and regularity of decisions made. A criminal report has been filed for organised crime, as more than 900 million dinars have been damaged from 2011 to 2014. This year, Belgrade Business School received a certificate for the quality of ISO 9001/2008 from the London house DAS and thus became flat to the London Business School. In the implementation of ISO 9001/2008 the schools adopted 110 regulations, instructions and other sublegal acts envisioning the laws of this country, and this has been achieved by its own forces, indicating the high professional and working capacity of the Belgrade Business School professors. These exceptional results show that the quality of education is causally linked to the social environment. Finally, we entered a cycle of mutual coordination, that social reforms follow the reform of education and that education is again starting to give a moral framework for the development of society. Insisting on increased security, accountability and efficiency of all participants in education, through these laws, restores security and trust in the education system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19750	Thank you, Dr. Blazic. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19751	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, generally, every law on education must follow the needs of society in general, must monitor technological progress, the civilization's progress of a society, but must also monitor the needs of the market and the needs of employers. I see the very proposal for this law in that light and that way. From the very adoption of the applicable Law on Education, I am talking about the Law on Higher Education, we can say that the Ministry of Education met with certain problems. These problems are related to the accreditation of health institutions, to the evaluation of the quality of study programmes, to the employment of teachers and associates, but we can say that there was a problem related to the completion of the start-up studies within the deadline, according to the start-up programme and according to the rules of study. By reading this bill, today's bill of law, felt the need for the Ministry of Education to solve all these problems that existed in the current Law on Higher Education practically. The bill itself, therefore, which is on the agenda today, can say that it offers answers to all these problems and those issues that have been unresolved or discussed in the earlier proposal. I would especially stress the importance of introducing commercialisation of scientific results, because this is one of the ways in which we come to improve the scientific performance of a higher education institution. Of course, here I see that it is precisely defined, and it is likely that sublaws will be more precisely defined that these funds must be used on purpose, only to improve exactly the scientific activity that this higher education institution is engaged in. What I also interpreted in a similar way is the introduction of a university manager institute. The university manager will not only have the human resource manager's potential where he will, first of all, evaluate, reward, talk about teachers and associates, this human factor, but will play a role in potential for the commercialisation of patents, on the one hand, and scientific activities, increasing the financial capacity of his higher education institution. In practice so far, as I mentioned, there were problems related to the accreditation of higher education institutions. These problems were dominant in the part where the second-degree procedure was discussed, where the second-degree procedure in decision-making for accreditation of a certain higher education institution was practically not defined. In this way, this proposal has practically solved this lack by forming an appeal commission, and thus a competent appeal committee, related to second-degree accreditation decision. There is one thing that I particularly like, which is that the facility can be withdrawn from the work permit if the inspection supervision determines that there are no conditions for the performance of that activity. I think that's how we're going to improve the quality of higher education, because with adequate inspection and reaction in that sense... I think it's the only way to do that. The more reason why I address myself in this way, and this is how I expose it is that a very important thing is defined in this law, in this bill of law, which is the formation of a body to check quality in higher education, so-called. Nat. This body forms a government, has management authorities, has expert quality control bodies. I think with this body, which is very important, I say, in checking the quality of the work of higher education institutions, we get data that will be very important in a comparative analysis with higher education institutions in the EU and the environment. Also, I think this bill will bring many positive effects, not only to institutions, higher education institutions, but also to teachers and co-workers themselves, on the one hand, but also to students. The more effective the institution will be, the more efficient the accreditation process will be based on this exposure. Also, institutions will have the opportunity to commercialise their scientific work and thus improve and improve their status and not only fix it, but to further invest in scientific and research work, thus closing this one cycle that is already properly imagined. By introducing a class of lecturers outside the working relationship, from the real sector, we create one, I would say, a very significant bond between higher education institutions, on the one hand, and employers, businesses, on the other. This is very important, because I don't think there should be a controversy about dual education. It's something that's progressing. This is something that has experienced a significant implementation in all developed Western societies. I think we need everything that's smart, which is important to adopt. Of course, we just need to modify it in a way that suits us. I would also point out a very important position and a significant position, and this is a proposal for a more realistic condition for the entry of studies financed by the budget cost. So, in my opinion, lowering that number of ESPB points to 48 is realistic and thus making this bill real and current, which, in my view, is more than understandable and I welcome. That's why I think this bill finally creates one possibility for the education of young generations. In parallel with that, I think it's very important and we all have to work together, is to establish one principle of continuous and permanent education and the adoption of knowledge in the course of life, in the course of the working century, because it is necessary. On the other hand, I ask you only to enable, as health minister and as co-workers of the health minister, to enable one, first of all, significant and greater transparency, therefore, of the education system, I mean international openness, I mean international co-operation, because that is the only way that we will be able to follow the modern steps in education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19752	Thank you, Dr. Laketich. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go, colleague Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19753	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, have their own characteristics and characteristics at all times, and some decisions are made at all times. We live in a time in which this Assembly and the MPs and the authority that our MP group supports, time is absolutely historic. A time of big decisions, big decisions for the future of our citizens, for the future of Serbia, for the future of our children, for those who may someday sit in these benches, for the future of those who will be teachers, teachers, teachers, who should continue to build this country in that direction that we are making today with the decisions we are making. That time which is historic and thus filled with important decisions and changes is, of course, and is no exception to some previous time 150 or 200 years ago, when in Serbia, too, some large, large historical decisions and many reforms began. I will remind you that once in Serbia there were also those who feared Vuk Karadzic, that they were afraid of the reforms and changes he had brought to Serbia, into its education system. There are those in Serbia today. These are the retrograde forces that would want Serbia to remain the way it is, that would want it to be worse, that nothing changes in it for the better, because it is the only environment in which such ones can survive and exist. We, who represent the citizens of Serbia here, who have been elected to the elections in front of the SNS, Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are determined to continue, regardless of all resistance to change and reform in society, that these reforms remain strong, fast and strong in Serbian society, and all for the sake of improving children and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is the laws that are on the agenda today that bring changes and reforms to key parts of Serbian society. That is why these are new laws, and they are not amendments and additions, but two new laws that should in many ways contribute to the development and progress of our education system and society in general. We have defined ourselves to go to Europe, to the EU and accept the values that are part of a society whose Serbia we want to be part of. If we want to do so then we should have no dilemma and be against these laws today, but to support them, so, of course, there are no perfect laws, but in time, if there is any need for some parts to change, and to change, but it is important to lay a strong, strong and good foundation for the development of our education system, for the improvement in it, for the reform, where our personnel that we create in our colleges, our schools are prepared for the future, ready to take responsibility in society, ready to be employed in companies that are coming in the Republic of Serbia and looking for more and more labour, trained and prepared for jobs that are being opened. That's why we can't be against education reform, because then we're against hiring our people. We need to be aware that today is our responsibility for those jobs that our children are supposed to take tomorrow in the Republic of Serbia. Because I believe in the future of this country, because I believe in reforms and changes and within the framework of the education system and in other segments of our society, I am absolutely in favour of all those proposals that contain both of these laws that are on the agenda today, and therefore, in the day of voting, I will absolutely support such drafts of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19754	Thank you, fellow Filipovic. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. As far as I can tell, he's not in the O.R. The word has a national emissary of Milena Turk. Here you go, fellow Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19755	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have two draft laws before us - a bill on the foundations of the education and education system and a proposal for a law on higher education. When it comes to the draft law on the basis of the education and education system, this is indeed one systematically organised approach to changes in the system in order to address the shortcomings observed. This is therefore an opportunity for us to align the law with the 2020 education strategy, but also to catch up with developed education systems in EU countries. This is an opportunity, of course, to take over those positive things that developed countries have in their education systems, to catch up with modern society, but also to cultivate our traditional values. Of course, a system of education needs to be adapted to the needs of a modern student. In the first place is quality, quality when it comes to education, quality assurance when it comes to teaching professions, the educational process itself, but also the students' achievements. The powers of directors are clearly determined, the rights and obligations of both staff and students are clearly established, and greater involvement of professional associates is foreseen, but I am also convinced that the involvement of all links in the education system will lead to an orderly system that will lead to optimal solutions. It will lead to an orderly system, a higher reputation for teaching professions, and to students gaining functional knowledge that they will be able to apply. The objectives and outcomes of this law in education and education and coordination have been defined, of course, with the European objectives of education. The law also provides for a series of mechanisms for verification, control, evaluation of the performance of these results which are envisaged and planned through the programmes. Of course, all these prescribed targets will be monitored at the republican level by the Ministry of Education. When it comes to self-evaluation, which is of course one newspaper in the law, the quality of the program is assessed, its implementation, the professional development of personnel, the satisfaction of students and parents, which is of course extremely important, and all these indicators will show where our system is located and how far it progresses. When it comes to external evaluation, one of the indicators will be student success in the final and graduation exams. When it comes to the conditions in which education is taking place in institutions, I would like to point out that lately a great accent has been put on investment in the facilities itself, in the buildings itself, through projects of the Public Investment Management Office, through projects of the Ministry of Education, which is truly remarkable and there has never been this many major investments that relate to both adaptation and renovation and energy efficiency, and all in order to improve the conditions in which students are schooled. When it comes to professional training of employees, apart from professional training through seminars, I would really point out, as someone who has worked in education, that a great accent should be placed on teachers who want to introduce new innovative methods, who want to be creative, that this introduction of new methods should also be welcomed and supported and insisted on it, and that it is unacceptable for someone throughout their working life to implement methods that are time-consuming and not catch up with new technical achievements, and we are witnessing that really technology is developing rapidly. When it comes to dual education, there's been a lot of controversy in these two days. This is one opportunity to strengthen the relationship with the economy, to learn, to gain knowledge through practical work. I would point out once again that education is our development chance, that it is the most valuable thing we have and what we should invest in, because it is an investment in the future. The intention is, of course, to monitor developed systems, to look up to European countries with good education systems, to adapt education to modern society and to get functional and applied education. The goal, of course, is to avoid the burden of students, but also to avoid production of formal wolves. Thus, removing identified problems and achieving optimal goals. For all the reasons mentioned in the voting day, I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19756	Thank you, colleague Turk. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic. He's not there. MP Veroljub Matic. Here you go, fellow Matić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19757	Thank you. As far as these two draft laws are concerned, I think that we all, all Serbian citizens in some period of time, are affected by these laws or subject to these laws, so that they do not practically pass any citizens of this country. For these reasons, for reasons of good education, then it's also a good country and it's probably, in addition to natural resources, the greatest wealth and the greatest capital. I'll, given that there's been a lot said today, just a few things I'm going to pay attention to, they may not be systematicized, but I think they're important. In addition to home education, I think that education is one branch that should go with education, and it has something characteristic in this law. Like, in the preschool part. Practically it is in the law of education and education, while primary and secondary education includes education and education. Perhaps at that level, education should go first and then education, and at other levels vice versa, education and education. I'm sure the youngest should be brought up first and then educated. But it's good to be both. As far as preschool institutions are concerned, I think it's said a little here today and yesterday in the debate. That's where our kids start first. There are the first steps both in education and education, and there is more need for space for preschool education, so there should work to ensure that existing facilities in schools or new capacities are prepared, equipped and put into operation, because if we have those children who want to go, or parents who direct children to preschool, that's one thing. The other thing is the need, I wish it was because of the birth rate, the increased birth rate. And the third thing is that it's because of the busy parents who are in their jobs. Next, besides the minister, I didn't notice anyone saying anything about school administrations today. It's part of the ministry that seems to me the most direct to the education institutions of secondary, primary and preschool education and education or education. I think they should get full importance through their equipment and readiness that they can react both quickly and quality at any moment. In any case, you should also work on quality, and I mean equipment. My specific experience with my competent school administration in Valjev is positive, and I hope that such school administrations are also needed to function in the right way. As far as inspection supervision is concerned, I think it needs to be stepped up, but I think it may need to be transformed in the sense that it works on levels of primary education, so that it can be tied to the assistant minister at that level, and the assistant responsible for the minister. Maybe it'll partially improve inspection surveillance. So, if it's a good remark -- okay, if it's not as good as it's been. As far as high school education is concerned, there are many who have spoken and I will say that simply, if we have specialist and master education, it is something where he practically prepared someone to be educated and ready to work quickly, within the future of his job. If we have a good economy, we have a good country, if we have a good economy, we also have good income, if we have good income, then we are full of education budget. So, in that full circle, there's a total win. Something my suggestion is that in the future one space that may not be sufficiently covered is being used by a permanent conference of cities and municipalities. Because you can't communicate with each individual local self-government when making certain decisions at global level, and a permanent conference of cities and municipalities is an association of all cities and municipalities. It represents the interests of cities and municipalities, but I think it has a balance and a measure to understand the other side, I mean the state, the government, the ministry, etc. So the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities is a good talker on behalf of local self-government. And what's important is that the ministry's work feels on the ground. The ministry's work, law enforcement, primarily educational institutions need to feel. By chance, I've been involved in certain activities and I know it feels on the ground. It is something that is very good, which should be continued, which should be improved, which should be strengthened, and with these new legislative proposals that I hope, in this form or in the form of amendments that are accepted, will be very voted on. You also have my vote within the SNS parliamentary group, so I wish you good luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19758	Thank you, Mr. Matice. The word has a minister, Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19759	I can tell you that we've been thinking about that model of the inspection these days, and since we're getting a new systemization and a new budget for next year, we're going to look at it in October. And we think it's smarter that maybe in those sectors. On the other hand, we'll see if we can make a combined model. In any case, certain school administrations work very well, and in some cases we change managers and really work on it. The presence on the ground is permanent, at least twice a week when normal circumstances are and once they're really extremely busy on the ground and that's where all teams go. I think that's how we met our colleagues, our people, their capacities, I'm sure now I know over 700 directors personally. We've got a lot of focus on laws and stuff. The help of the school administration is valuable and necessary. Let me just say, I had a need around earlier debaters, yesterday I didn't say that no strategy-based action plan was made, but not a good one. The last one I found, the teams said it's 26% applicable somewhere. It's something that's really been an opportunity for me to say in public right now. You know how, when laws are done, one of the debaters said that one of the rectors said how much his participation was in the law, you know, there are six rectors, there are a lot of student organisations, at least two big ones, there are a lot of other people who participated in the public debate. It's the same as when one of the unions says yes, we weren't working on the law. That's what I heard. Well, who was I negotiating with for two months about each member? Luckily, we keep records of all the meetings, and they're stories for the TV broadcast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19760	Thank you, Minister. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the laws of the Agenda as soon as possible this session. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. Here you go. I'm giving up. You're giving up. Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Vesna Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19761	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister, with his associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today's parliamentary debate unequivocally confirms that education is among the most important topics of our society, and that the proposed laws in this area and this time are a reason for a broad and substantive debate. The 21st century is a modern society that involves a number of economic and social changes, as well as a rapid transition of society to a knowledge society. Accordingly, new challenges and the need for a new approach to education, education and learning arise. Due to the growing development of society, the term more and more discussed is learning throughout life with the aim of constantly improving knowledge, skills and skills in the field of personal, civil, social and business perspectives. Education offers us not only knowledge from different fields and sciences, but also a way to build ourselves as a person and make the world a better place to live. Someone far wiser than me has said – every country's greatest hope lies in the proper schooling of young people. That's why the education system has to keep changing, because knowledge is constantly being renewed, innovated, as well as adapting to labour market needs. Reforms in modern conditions mean education for new professions and new skills. To achieve this, there is a need for further reforms in both primary and secondary vocational and university education, in which the Republic of Serbia has been making significant progress in recent years, especially since the adoption of the education strategy. In this regard, and I consider the adoption of these laws to be a further improvement in the education system. The bill allows for a systematic, rational and proportionate approach to changes in the education system, with a comprehensive view of the process from the start to the end of schooling. I'd like to say first of all some of the changes and newspapers in the law on the foundations of the education and education system that I consider important. This bill creates conditions and provides opportunities for the establishment of institutions according to the model of public-private partnership for areas of education and education. Then, this law establishes a modern and efficient single information system in education and education. The responsibility of directors, secretaries and management bodies of the institution as well as the obligation to involve parents and other legal representatives of students is greater. There is a legal basis for introducing dual education in secondary vocational education and education in line with European practice, which should contribute to faster integration of young people into the work world. What is also an important goal of the law is to increase the educational level of the population of Serbia that is still not satisfactory, which is one of the most important objectives of the education strategy, and indicators of the level of education of the population are directly linked to the degree of socio-economic development. By including marginalising groups, persons with developmental disorders and disability in the education and education system through the establishment of the centre's resources. It is very important that the law regulates the status of persons employed in education, the status of teachers, educators and professional associates performing educational training, with the issue of pay regulated by special law. Our parliamentary group has tabled several amendments wishing to specify some provisions and advance solutions. I mention the amendments we have proposed to be representatives of the Serbian school library society at the National Educational Council, as well as representatives of the active teachers who teach in our additional schools abroad. These and other amendments will be discussed by my fellow Members in the discussion of details. When it comes to the Law of Higher Education, I'd like to point out a few things. For the quality of higher education, it is extremely important that the system of accreditation of colleges is significantly improved through the establishment of a national accreditation body and the introduction of new standards and procedures for issuing work permits and enrolment of students. I would like to commend the proposal to establish a unique information system for education, which includes among other things the registers of accredited study programmes, employees and students. I believe that this will significantly facilitate the monitoring of the results achieved and the progress made in higher education, and that this system will be the basis for establishing objective funding criteria. The aim of the promoters is to strengthen the links between colleges and businesses, and to improve the functional knowledge of our students in order to employ as many of them as possible after completing their studies. That's understandable, because some studies say that even 56% of our experts are not employed at the position they were trained in. It is therefore extremely important to establish and strengthen the bond between colleges, labour markets and business and social entities. In this context, the bill offers solutions such as setting up advice from employers in colleges, the possibility of engaging in the teaching of experts from the economy, as a lecturer outside of working relationship, the introduction of short study and study programmes with work that enable the acquisition of practical skills in line with labour market needs. The issue of effective study is also one of the problems of our higher education system. As the Bologna principle of study implies continuous work on the monitoring and checking the adopted knowledge during the school year, it practically means that students are maximumly burdened with the obligations of the current academic year, so if another or two items from the previous year are added, it is clear what burden our academics face. A comprehensive analysis of this problem would be extremely useful to determine the reasons why 60 points are often an unattainable goal for our students. Only on the basis of this detailed analysis could adequate measures be proposed to increase the efficiency of the study and the success of our students. In this context, I believe that the new Higher Education Act will provide a sufficiently clear legal framework for improving the efficiency of study and preservation and further improving the quality of higher education. Because Serbia has a high quality education, which is demonstrated by our universities that have already gained a world reputation, both by ranking on the Shanghai List and by the knowledge of our experts who have found employment in today's leading world companies after completing their studies. I'll remind you that the Shanghai List is one of the most influential lists that ranks the best universities in the world. Positioning on this list, which covers only 2% of the world's universities, is proof of the competitiveness and quality of our higher education. Belgrade University is among the 300 best universities in the world this year. It's ranked in as many as 17 narrow scientific areas. In certain areas, such as mathematics and food technology, Belgrade University results are even better. This year, three more of our universities were on the Shanghai List – the University of Kragujevac, Novi Sad and Nis. The world reputations of our higher education have also been built by many of our experts, who have worked or worked today in prestigious places in the world. Some data suggest that there are nearly 5,000 students from Belgrade University working in many large companies in America and Canada alone. They conveyed fame from their university and Serbia. I'd take advantage of the opportunity to make some suggestions to further improve university education. In fact, one or more foreign languages, the subject of information and information literacy, are studied in all universities and higher schools. But after completing their studies, students do not receive any certificates on the level of knowledge acquired from foreign languages and knowledge and certain information languages, i.e. information programs. Our proposal is that, at the end of the study, a knowledge check is organised by the relevant institutions in these areas, and that students complete studies with certificates on the level of information literacy and knowledge of foreign languages, because we know that no employment competition is going through today without these two conditions. Why not allow young people to receive certificates for these skills as part of their regular studies and thus help them to get to work faster and not have to invest additional funds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19762	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19763	And to finish the sentence said five centuries ago by philosopher and statesman Francis Bacon - knowledge is power. A power no one can take from us. Investment in knowledge is never a lost investment, and therefore our society must invest, but also value it. In Voting Day, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will vote on both of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19764	Thank you, colleague Ivkovic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19765	Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us two very important laws that determine the framework to get to a better, more modern education at all levels. We are witnessing that these days during the debate, he is breaking a spear on several important issues. One of these is about the Law on Fundamentals of Education, and it concerns the appointment of a director. I belong to those people who, in principle and in principle, support decentralisation both in the organisational sense and in terms of the responsibility of appointment. However, in the capacity of the MP and witness to what is happening in the schools in the area from which I am from, I was convinced that the way of appointment so far, i.e. the election of the director, was very wrong and very harmful. We had school committees 3.3.3 that provided some kind of democracy in the election. However, we also had a complete discharge of responsibility. So, three parents meant that someone would influence them, perhaps even some teacher. It's mostly political tycoon structures, including criminal structures. In the end, we have one of those same factors -- appoints a director, but no one answers. What we have now is an address, a very clear address, of course, along with a procedure that starts from the base, from the bar, but a very clear address. Tomorrow, if that director is wrong, we know who we're going to turn to and we know who we're going to ask to correct and, in the end, we know who's to blame. I think this is a kind of step in which clear responsibility is determined. The second question that is also being discussed is the issue of schools with fewer children. What about them? That is one very difficult question and dilemma. Do schools shut you down or keep you at all costs? Of course it's very painful to close any school, but I want to remind you of the political stance of the Bosniak Democratic Community, which we have presented here many times. In order to maintain schools, we must preserve the village. In order to save the village, we need to be able to protect all those, through taxes and other benefits, who want to live in the country. Have a worker, have an investment, and he'll have kids, and then we'll have kids in schools. Without that foundation, any attitude to take, believe me, we're not gonna achieve anything. Finally, we can pass any law, the law is always a framework, but the factor man and his quality in the entire hierarchy system, from employees to ministers, is actually a key factor. And we're also going through the appointment of the staff of everyone, but also the director, we're going to actually have the right picture of those who are at the head of this scale and what they want. Moral ones will name morals, and others will name others. Therefore, the process of combating the improvement of education and the face-to-face of a number of anomalies is just ahead and it concerns those of us who bear certain responsibilities, and how much we will succeed and want to deal with it. As far as higher education is concerned, I have already said most of my views, but I will remind you of the recent report by the Council of Europe, that is, the Expert Group on High Education Corruption, which pointed out the problems that are partly covered by the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education, but it is important that we follow these problems through the amendments to end and remove all shortcomings, and as regards the concentration of decision-making power, the monopoly that leaves room for corruption, nepotism, which is unfortunately a phenomenon in our society in higher education. And about academic freedom. So academic freedom, yes, it's a great value, but not just for institutions, not just for presidents, representatives, rectors and other leaders of institutions, but for everyone, for students and professors. Not that two, three powerful men have academic freedom, and the others are terrified. It's not academic freedom if a major university forbids its professors to work at small universities. Let's get rid of these shortcomings and certainly get this bill back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19766	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19767	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People, I would like to take the opportunity to have the rare pleasure of seeing the minister and his associates face-to-face and, behold, it is an opportunity to ask some questions that are not so public. Along with my colleagues and colleagues, I had the opportunity to attend an exhibition a year ago that was set up here in the National Assembly, where photographs of lonely children were taken. Why do I say lonely kids? It was then stated that there are only one, possibly two students, in over 100 schools in Serbia. It was an earthquake picture of the fallen schools, forgotten, which indeed, now reading this bill on the foundations of education and education, seems to be living in a parallel world. The faces of these children, beautiful children, lonely children, surely worthy children, who are preparing to go to school in the morning, who have been walking for miles and this portrait of students, a student who is written in a bureaucratic, technocrat dictionary, who has been translated into a bill on the basis of education and education, are indeed two parallel worlds. Let's face it, let's face it, here are some of my colleagues and colleagues who work almost their entire lives in education, in science, in education, really testify to what it looks like, how hard it is to work as a teacher, as a teacher. We've all been through some education, we've had different experiences, but we know it would be ideal if what was presented as a bill really came to life in practice. When I read the beginning of that law, about the goals, about the outcomes, that's where one is used, so to speak, the technocratic dictionary, it's about digital competence, it's about the entrepreneurial spirit, it's about lifestyles. We know that the former prime minister, the current president of the Republic of Serbia, spoke of his ambition to improve the level of hygiene. Let's just not get into that subject right now, but you know how hard it is to maintain, so to speak, student lifestyle at some level in these conditions of poverty. Of course, poverty is a word that is avoided in politics, not only during this government, but before. But Serbia is not a prosperous country. I would really like to point out how much it makes sense to talk about the bill, because, here, I would like to commend the president of our parliamentary group, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, has already said that a national initiative has produced results. Here in the bill, zero tolerance for violence has been declared. A colleague, Raskovic Ivić, has already said that this law does not include a word that we are all aware of and is putting children at risk, which is peer violence. So many other innovative, new words, new speech have entered, but peer violence seems to be another forbidden word, as is poverty that does not enter our laws. This law, these two laws are in fact the most relevant, i.e. the Law on Fundamentals of Education and Education, to students who are not yet entitled to vote. Both teachers and teachers and teachers have the right to vote, but for children, we really don't have the opportunity to influence. But I mentioned that people's initiative, and I want to say that a set of proposals that has been organised and which is known in public thanks to the parents of the unfortunately injured boy, Alexa's law, and this particular petition and that action that was being collected with Facebook support has produced results. Some of these legal institutes they advocated, such as seduction, for example, licenses to the director or teaching staff, have entered this law, which is good. So it makes sense to talk. I am really surprised, Minister Sarcevic, that when he promotes dual education, which he will say is an entrepreneurial spirit, in Serbia, I have no objection, but co-operation with the president of the Chamber of Commerce. I don't think that's the connection, that really our students won't immediately catch the purse and put the bow on, and even if we actually put on them these nice uniforms, watching English or white world colleges. You know that's not reality in Serbia. In Serbia, it is hard to live, living most of the work, not of the entrepreneurial spirit. That's why I would advise you to direct your cooperation to SANU during your term of office, there are smart people. So we learn from what is the highest quality of education, not only in Europe but also in the world. I've already mentioned, of course, it's not very interesting in the media, this list that exists, for example, in America, where there are 5,000 terms that a man, a University of Virginia professor, has collected. These are not just phrases, not only what we can learn from Christianity, from Islamic culture, which is part of our national tradition, which is part of our folk proverbs, which are facts, which is a tradition in Latin or ancient Greek, but in which our children cannot develop reading competences and achieve better results on PISA tests. Here is the information in the explanation of the Law as to how bad it is, dissatisfaction with the performance of our students on PISA tests – reading, mathematical competence, functional literacy, scientific literacy. It is not an entrepreneurial spirit but an innovative spirit, meaning the ability of students in Serbia to think and make a creative contribution, not only to bug information and everything else. I think these policy proposals are going in one wrong direction, in the area of the Law on Higher Education, fostering mediocrity, because when you come to the law that 48 European portable points are enough, you simply talk to a young man, an academic future citizen, a future scientist – enough to be a mediocre student, here are 48 points. In my day, it was appreciated exceptional and indeed still, thank God, even in this government, and especially in the opposition, there are extremely good students, brilliant students. I'll end up with a saying--the mind reigns, the power of the stake works. I think the SNS should be really careful and eventually disprove knowledge and education.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19768	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19769	We're going back to work. The word has a folk emissary, Jasmina Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19770	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, respected colleagues, considering that you have adopted a number of objections, then that the law contains new solutions that have the potential to solve some of the major problems of higher education, and among them two which I think are very important, which is the introduction of professionals in higher education and study at work, and knowing that you personally have a desire to improve higher education in Serbia. For a short time, I will talk in principle about two roof and heavy topics. One is the harmonisation of the draft law with the Education Strategy with regard to the transfer of competences from the Assembly to the Government. The second is compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act as regards keeping records in a single information system for education and education, i.e. JISP. If time remains, I will refer to some more compliance with the Government's programme and the European space of higher education, and if not, we can talk about it in particular, since I have certainly tried as usual to submit constructive amendments, considering that this is the most professional field of interest for me. As for the transfer of jurisdiction from the Assembly to the Government, therefore, the bill provides for the following. I'll try to do my best to speak to you in fact. Therefore, the National Council is a high-level body whose members are appointed and resolved by the Government. The National Accreditation Body then educates the Government and the National Accreditation Body Management Board also educates the Government. The National Assembly in the new law no longer has practical jurisdiction, so it is not mentioned and it is a fact. All of her powers have been transferred to the government. You have rejected suggestions, which you have explained to the academic community not to transfer powers to the Government, and in practice, if I understand the law correctly now, six months, you will appoint a new National Council for Higher Education in accordance with Article 139 in the transitional provisions of Article 1 and Article 11(4). Conus must call a competition for members of the National Council as soon as the law enters into force. You have explained the change in the transfer of competence from the National Assembly to the Government of Efficiency because the Education Committee rarely meets and is able to create a problem in the appointment of new members. Since the government by definition is more effective than the Assembly, this could mean that some other things should be transferred to the government, which is not good. So, I know that there are other reasons, but this is the only thing you've listed in the law's explanation, and I now state your argument. In your explanation you called for the Strategy, however, it was left out to indicate that the National Accreditation Body should be independent not only of the academic community but also of the ministry, because the Strategy says, under point 10. – external quality check and accreditation process in the coming period should be carried out by a national body acting entirely independent of the academic community and ministry. And in an explanation when you refer to the Strategy, you say that by educating that body, that the procedures of accreditation and external quality checks are carried out by a body that is independent of the academic community. So there's no ministry here, and to make it easier for you, that's side 73 of the bill, second paragraph, fourth row. The national accreditation body, although financially independent from the government, and I know that it is an argument that depends on it in the next important things. This, by means of an instrument of establishment, which is educated by the government body, is practically adopted by it, determines closer conditions for the appointment and resolution of members of the Management Board. That's Article 15(2), and the strictest thing we're saying is we don't really know if NAT is an independent body. The Anti-Corruption Agency has given its opinion that the conditions for appointment and resolution should be regulated by law. I see you haven't accepted that suggestion, and if you could explain why you didn't, I assume there's a reason. Then, the National Accreditation Body depends on the Government and the next. The government gives prior consent to the Statute of the National Accreditation Body. It agrees with the annual work programme and the financial plan. This is Article 17(1) point 3. At the level of the accreditation fee, the remuneration for the work of the member of the accreditation commission and determines, therefore, it does not give either the proposal nor the consent but determines the fee for the work of the reviewer. In these matters, and they are all important to the independence of the National Accreditation Body, I simply have to conclude that it is not entirely independent of the Government because we would have to answer at least one question. Is there a possibility that the Government will not give consent, which resolves members of the Management Board of the National Accreditation Body. These are questions we don't have the answer to right now because they're left to define by sublaw rather than by law. The bill also does not specify whether the Government can reject the academic community's proposal to the National Council and the National Accreditation Body. So, they are supposed to propose and it will certainly be experts, there is no dilemma, just whether the government can reject the proposal. Why am I asking this? The case works, the government would have to be able to reject the proposal. If the promoter did not take account, for example. on gender representation, because the proponent has no obligation, but the Government has an obligation, so if it sees that the genders are not equally represented, it would have to reject the proposal, but there is no procedure to reject the proposal. So I think I've made some kind of amendment to initiate a motion rejection procedure. The other topic is the registers and all that about funding. You have received the opinion of the Commissioner for Public Information and the Data Protection Officer on Personality that the provisions of the draft law relating to the record. The good works are not in line with the basic principles of data processing, which are purpose, proportionality and legality. The trustee indicates that, I quote, the way the JSP's purpose is now defined is not acceptable from the point of view of Articles 20 and 42. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as from the point of view of the Law on the Protection of Personality Data and Ratified International Documents in this area. Since adopting such legal solutions could damage guaranteed rights to privacy and protection of personal data, the end of the quote. So you haven't adopted the credentials. You didn't explain why you didn't adopt them, I assume there's a reason and you can say it, and you'll admit it doesn't sound good. If I understand correctly, it is that a large centralised database will be created, one of the largest in the Republic of Serbia which is not known whether it is proportionate because, in the opinion of the Commissioner, it is not clearly defined, no doubt, certain etc. I'll say something about it eventually. What I know is that a new register of students has been introduced, it has so far not existed in the current law and has kept records of highly sensitive data, such as health status data, social status data, and since data are now no longer delivered in anonymous form to the ministry, I conclude, and correct me if I am wrong to have access to the Ministry by name and last name of students to all these sensitive data. So, data on social, health, educational status and personal data. So it's a new register. What I know and what I can conclude from the argument is that the data from the register will be used for funding under the new model because the provisions on the record are cited as an example of going to meet the new financing law. It's possible I didn't get it right. I leave everything else for an opportunity when they're amended to leave time for my colleagues. So much for the time being for these two principle questions, and I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19771	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19772	Registration is a matter we still have to solve, and here we have assignments and arrangements with your team to work on. The Ministry won't have the information you said, but the institution that does it, and only the primary statistics have the ministry. The trustee made remarks in July, and you may have a record of what was said at the time. We have a processed version now. We've completed what you've shown here because since July, we've had more series of meetings and respected and completed what the trustee has ordered. So we removed it. National accreditation body, someone has to start. It's simple, we can discuss it, but when they do, and you said your own founding act, and they have their own administrative organs, so they get their own resources, so they won't be dependent. The CAP gets the money literally from us. That was some difference, but I expect exactly from what we discussed that exactly these topics are given as a kind of suggestion and complement and elaborate to make this more perfect. This is really the initial frame now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19773	Thank you. The word is Mikhailo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19774	Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, I think these two draft laws have been done more than well. For what? Six times this first Law on the Fundamentals of Education and Education has been amended, and eight times the Law on Higher Education has been amended. The problems have accumulated. The line had to be undermined, and now this ministry has done it, that is, this minister and they've given solutions to all the problems that are best at this point, to understand each other, and tomorrow, tomorrow is a new day, tomorrow may not be. And what the laws were changing was necessary because science was changing. What are the basic characteristics of these two laws? First, conditions are created to improve the material position of education and those working in education. That's where I want to point out the proposal that's been made, and it's about commercialisation, scientific results, artistic creation and the invention of higher education institutions that they can start companies. So science institutions need to get into a situation where they first use scientific knowledge, so what they've created. It certainly creates capital, it creates money. You ministers need to ensure that this remains the university, that it cannot go into the budget, that one part of it improves the material position of both those professors and those teachers who participated in the creation and acquisition of these new scientific knowledge. It's very important to develop quality in education. Another thing, when it comes to secondary education, this dual education also creates an opportunity to improve the material position. Here, in Article 103, you have tied up a student cooperative, I have told you part of the practical teaching in dual teaching must be realized through a student association, where members of the student cooperative are both teachers and students. By creating income, one part of that income must also go towards improving material positions and these teachers and those students that affect all of this. So part of it can't go into the Republic's budget, it can't come back. The next thing you know, you've created conditions for control. Institute for improving education and education and Institute for measuring the quality of education and education, which is Article 78. The first version of the Law on Fundamentals of Education in 2005 destroyed secondary and primary education. Gentlemen, you must know that the number of unwarranted absences was not limited at all. The school didn't have the theoretical opportunity to get the student out of school. On the other hand, surveillance of the educational process was performed by psychologists, not educators, psychologists. In most cases, foreign language teachers conducted, not to say politically, etc. You know what that was? You're now providing a math class that has to and should be controlled by a math teacher. So, conditions are created to create insight into the work of each individual and to create conditions for those who create quality, who draw, the schools they draw, the professors who draw, to create conditions that they have to have greater personal incomes than those that are below them. You'd have to try to make these budget-based advances bigger in the next school year for those schools that score in the previous school year. Furthermore, what is very important, you have increased your parents' responsibility. Do you know that so far there have been cases of a parent coming to school and that a parent in Valjev doesn't know whether his son is studying technical or economic school, there are cases like that, and whether he's in the second or third grade, whether he's in the second five or the second six. You scored that, and that's very good. It is very good that you have provided for a member of 121, the establishment of community councils or city councils of parents. Furthermore, what's important and what no one has said, I'm saying that, not to repeat ourselves, is the component of these proposals are both these rules and sublegal acts that you've foreseen. So these laws don't go without them. You predicted the government would do four, the National High Education Council would do 11 and the Ministry would do seven. With that set, that's the whole of it, and that's how it's supposed to be watched. Gentlemen, the primary goal of education is that the student progresses according to his abilities. The teacher in the educational process should appear in front of the student at the moment when the student reaches the wall and cannot go on. That's a plus. On the other hand, if he can't work, the teacher should be with him all the time and the moment he feels he can be alone, let alone. It's that individualization of the educational process. It's the most beautiful and powerful thing you've ever done in this law. That's what you said here, IOP, foresaw everyone progressing according to their options. This directly affected the reduction of the cost of parents, that no special professors were paid for those who were particularly gifted, that no special costs were paid for those who could not master this material. So I say once again, individualization of teaching is the top and primary goal of education. Furthermore, what you've solved and what no one has said, I'm going to say again, you've solved the problem of criteria and student evaluations. So there was an interval there, from 91 to 100, that's 10, and some were 94 to 110. Now you've determined that 10 is from 91 to 100, from 81, etc., not to repeat, which is very important anyway. On the other hand, by introducing a single educational number, you have made a student and student subject to an educational-experienced process, and that is the end. That was the basic goal of education and education. With this unique information system of education, you introduce and arrange chaos that exists to know who works, how many schools there are. This, Minister, is a big deal. Just to do this, you'll leave a trail at the ministry, because you've done something that today is causing a lot of difficulties that we're facing. So I don't take any more time, those are my observations. I think this is a step forward. I say today, tomorrow, we have to change, science changes, laws change, laws change. So much for me and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19775	The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic. Branimir Rancic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19776	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, guests from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, today we have before us MPs in the Serbian Parliament two draft laws of education, and I will only talk about the proposal for a law on higher education. First of all, the current Higher Education Act, which was adopted in 2005, following our country's accession to the Bologna Process, has been changed and completed on several occasions, 2008, 2010, 2012, 2014, and 2016, as problems with the accreditation process, evaluation of the quality of higher education institutions and study programmes have been identified, the establishment of a single information system in the field of higher education, the engagement of teachers and associates and the completion of prescribed studies within the prescribed deadline and following the start of the programme and the rules of study. It also noted the need to bring this law into line with the development strategy in Serbia, education in Serbia by 2020. In view of all this, as well as the number of amended and updated members compared to the current Higher Education Act, it is more comprehensive to pass a new law than to amend and supplement the existing law. In the debate here, the question arises why the law is passed by emergency procedure. The proposal for a higher education law is adopted by emergency procedure, inter alia, as a result of conditions for the establishment of student status as regards the financing of studies in the following year's study. The established criterion, which refers to the required number of EGF points 48, for ranking within the budget quota, and for the achievement of, or retention of budgetary status in the next school year, to remind me, the next school year begins on 1 October, means the number of points students in the current school year need to achieve in order to obtain the condition to finance from the budget, is reduced from 60 to 48 ECPB points. In this way, a realistic and sustainable budget financing threshold has been established. I will single out only some newspapers, not all, which are passed by the draft law on higher education, comparatively with the current law of 2005. First, the National Council for Higher Education, as we know to remind ourselves, is educated to ensure the development and improvement of the quality of higher education, means the National Council for Higher Education elects the Government, appoints and resolves instead of the National Assembly and the Council has 21 members instead of 17. As regards the competence of the National Council in Article 12(1) point 15, it is said – it sets minimum conditions for selecting teachers on a proposal for a conference of universities, or conferences and higher schools, which will have an impact on Article 74 where conditions for selecting teachers and on Article 93 of the termination of employment are defined. For example, in calling the doctor, besides other defined conditions he must have had at least three years of pedagogical experience, I underline - at least three years of pedagogical experience at a high school institution, which in the 2005 law was not defined or necessary. Also, the Proposal for a Law on Higher Education, when Chapter 8 talks about the staff of a higher school institution, is introduced in article 85 of the assistant with a doctorate. It was introduced that high school institutions could retain an assistant who had doctored and had expired a long period of engagement in case there was no possibility of choosing to call a doctor, thus allowing high school institutions to hold their doctorate for some time, developing their competence for teaching, and if the possibility of selecting them as teachers is indicated. As for the working relationship of teachers, a teacher who turned 65 years of age and at least 15 years of his life, and had a regular professor's appointment, in the current law could be an extraordinary teacher, a working relationship with a contract may be extended for a certain period of time to two years, with the possibility of an additional extension, and the longest until the end of the school year in which he turns 70. It is also possible to extend the working relationship to the teacher if he has at least 20 years of working experience in higher education and if, after getting the call of a regular professor, I underline – after obtaining the call of a regular professor, he has achieved the scientific results necessary to select a regular professor, which is defined in Article 74, paragraphs 10 to 12. I would refer to the bodies of the office - the university is the rector, the university dean, the academy of professional studies president, and the higher schools and higher schools of vocational studies director. The mandate of the authorities is three years, with the possibility of another consecutive election. So all those speculations that were in the paper that the rectors and deans would keep their ability to retire to these functions, with this new law has been reduced to three years and another one of their three-year-olds. Finally, to conclude - Higher education institutions are obliged to keep the doctoral dissertation, report and evaluation of the commission in the electronic version on the official website of the institution and in printed form, as well as in the library of the institution at least 30 days before the defence of dissertation. The university is required in the form of a digital repository, in which an electronic version is permanently preserved, the same must within three months of the defence being delivered to the central repository of the Ministry. This has not been defined in the case of final work and dissertation in the previous law in Article 30. In the end, since I was affirmative about this law, I will vote on the proposal for this law on higher education in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19777	The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19778	The Honorable Presidents, the Honorable Ministers and Associates of the Ministry, I will primarily talk about the Law on Higher Education, since the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina has a lot of amendments to that other law on education and education, so we will then use that time to our objections to that law. Most of the time, in this Law on Higher Education, I am interested in whether this law will finally correct the injustices that exist, as far as ciphers are concerned, that is, that we are schooling non-existent occupations. The code list of professions identifies about 140 non-existent professions, for which our students are educated at state and private universities. The list of professions, on the other hand, does not identify about 79 or 80 educational profiles, for which our university students in Serbia are educated. Among them are: a graduate hotel manager, a professional dental technician, etc., I will not now list the 79 educational profiles that exist and do not exist. The Higher Education Act, adopted in 2005, was adopted primarily because we joined the Bologna process. Among other things, many of the titles that take place in the Bologna process are not recognized, and I have already talked about it. They simply don't have room in the cipher. Students continue to compete, enrol in colleges, finish colleges, even pass state exams and licenses, because they are allowed in some way, but after that they cannot find employment or if they find a particular job, they find it with lower professional equipment, because simply, their professions are not recognized. So I ask you, Minister, will this new Law on Higher Education somehow resolve and will private and state colleges finally study educational profiles that will find a simple job and that, if they go to work, they will be able to identify? I'm going to give you a concrete example of this cipher and about one non-existent profession, and very important, because it concerns the area of health care. I've already asked this question several times in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and for the first time in March 2003 and since then I've only received some correspondence with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education, I've simply been prescribed members of the law, that this direction exists and you know what it looks like when members of the law are prescribed. The question concerns students, i.e. highly educated nurses who have acquired a calling – a graduate medical care organizer at the Faculty of Medicine in Novi Sad, and has that same direction in Pristina, Kosovo Mitrovica, I do not know exactly. So it's a state college. The university is in Novi Sad. These are basic academic medical care studies with 240 points. The Republic of Serbia's budget allocates funds for 70 students each year in these academic studies, with about 30 self-financing students in vocational schools. This direction at the Faculty of Medicine in Novi Sad has existed since 2003. So he's been enrolling these students since 2003. Students finishing that course are calling the graduate healthcare organizer. They're taking, I'm telling you, still licenses and taking state exams. Now I see, I found it on the Ministry's site, that since this year, since September, that direction will not be able to pass a state exam. In the education system, a solution has been found for nurses who graduate from higher school, and these sisters have also received a higher coefficient in some of these systems, simply, our system and clinics recognize them, and these graduate sisters simply don't recognize our clinics and our system. In the Republic of Serbia, 70% of all healthcare services are provided by nurses. Otherwise, in Serbia, according to the Chamber of Nurses and Technicians, we only have about 0.03% of highly educated nurses, while the percentage in Europe is about 70%. In recent years, a large number of highly educated nurses who have been educated by the state, we know in what state our education system is, that we have very little, insufficient funding for education from the budget, simply, we train these highly educated nurses. Or they can't get to that place where they went to school, school and work. So, they go from night shift to college, they study regularly, they finish colleges in four years. They are not in any way a burden to this country, because the state has recognized them and the university has existed since 2003. But simply, after a variety of efforts to get a job in their profession and be promoted to the jobs they do, they can't find it. That's kind of how all these nurses become some of our export cans. Well, I'm asking, do we have so much money that we're teaching high school students, now in this case, the nurses, and we're exporting them? I'm using that maybe inappropriate term. That's my question to you, the Ministry, maybe the Ministry of Health, what about these non-existent occupations, and is that cipher going to sort it out somehow?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19779	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19780	I'll give you some answers, but I think Minister Loncar will have to, since it's part of his jurisdiction, as well as when it comes to the code book, part of the department's jurisdiction. You are right to have a lot more interests here than we should, but we are doing a new law on the national qualification framework, which is our jurisdiction, and we are bringing into line with the European Qualifications Framework. What's very important is that an interminist group was created. It's exactly 21 institutions that will work to bring this thing together. It's already started. It was the first working meeting last week and this problem was recognized, so I'm obliged to inform you about it. If I took the floor, I would just like to thank Professor Jokic, who noticed that newspaper, which is a significant presence of student cooperatives within the institutions, means, as a place where children can acquire certain and knowledge and skills. I'd just like to add a sentence when we're talking about surveillance, it's not just surveillance. It's always been an advisory work, because when you come to someone and you're a professional, like someone who's got a call and you go to class and you see that some things don't work right, you're definitely obliged to train them, in a way, for that. That's the whole point of the story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19781	Thank you. The Word has a People's MP, Zoran Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19782	Thank you. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, listening to a two-day debate, I see that in the discussions so far there are no serious objections to the proposed two laws, which says, Mr. Minister, that your team has seriously approached this problem and has really done two good draft laws. It doesn't surprise me again, knowing from your biography, what business you were in and what results were behind your work. All that you've invested so far in your work, you want to implement these draft laws. That's what I thank you for. What I'm about to say is, first of all, I'm speaking as a parent and as a man who, for Christ's sake, for 16 years was either a member of a school board or a member of a parenting board. In those 16 years, many ministers have changed, and much has changed in the education system. First of all, we need to know that education is a living process, everyday, and that every day changes and perfects, and that we need as often as possible to apply all these new values. After all, a man learns as long as he lives, if he wants to be educated, and if he wants to have new knowledge. This law defines, above all, the obligations of educational workers, I can say the quality of the staff we have, the obligations of the students and the issues and participation of the parents themselves. When I mentioned the 16 years I spent as a member of a council or a parent or a school, I will refer to the discussions I heard in these two days, which were actually objections to the draft laws, and I do not see them as remarks. This was about our functional illiteracy. That's the data you've contributed, so you've given exactly how many people you've enrolled in primary school, how many schools you've completed, how many of them you've enrolled in high school, how many colleges you've completed, how many colleges you've completed. It is precisely the goal of these two legislative proposals to change that. In my opinion, numbers don't matter. When I say numbers, I mean grades. More important to me, too, is how someone will apply that knowledge tomorrow in their work. I think that's what you should be working on, because in your presentation at the beginning, you mentioned that some very high numbers on some qualification exams have not produced any valid results. That you're a man who wants to change the system of education, I know it from our own experience, since we've launched some initiative that in my town, where there's a town town where the local community is 50 kilometers away, we've launched an initiative to open a high school class. It didn't happen at this point, because for this very reason we couldn't. Expectations, wishes aren't enough. We should have interests as well. When we did the survey, it was seen that many, very few people were interested in opening up the general school at that time and in that place. I hope we do that at some other point. Here, in all discussions focused on the criticism of the law, it was mentioned, among other things, peer violence, which had nothing to do with this law. Other acts of law, as well as poverty, speak of peer violence. It's said - we don't want to talk about poverty. Well, you were just talking about poverty and social differences. That's exactly what we want to get past. Someone said yesterday the poor don't stand a chance of school. I think they do. A lot of poor people prominent and scientists and doctors of science and education. Education and education aren't the same. If I don't, since my colleagues have said a lot of good things about this law, I will end up here, and in any case, and it is known for sure, voting for these good bill proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19783	Thank you. The word is from MP Bajro Gegic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19784	The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected co-workers of the minister, MPs, respected citizens, I will say a few words as an MP of the Sandzak Democratic Action Party and a member of the Bosniak national community, as well as the chairman of the Bosniak National Council Education Committee on the Law on the Foundations of the Education and System System System, about his work concerning the education of minority nations. This law also guarantees equality in education for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as equality and availability of education in the same way under the same conditions, and for minority peoples education is implemented, i.e. in the language of the national minority and the letter of the national minority. Such legal solutions have existed in so far’s laws, and this is perfectly acceptable for us and there is no dispute there. However, what we find a problem is the application of the law in practice in everyday life. This path from law-making to its application is long, difficult, often unattainable. As an example, I cite our case, or Bosniak. We, although these legal solutions have not existed for a long time, as they are now or similar, have managed to achieve this right only in the town of Novi Pazar and the municipalities of Tutina and Sjenica and nowhere else outside the territory mentioned, not even in Priboj, nor in Prepolje where Bosniaks make up a significant part of the population and where all conditions for the exercise of this right are met. The problems we face in the exercise of this right are different and multiple. Let us begin from the very beginning, that is, from the moment the parents of the students should identify themselves as the language in which their children will listen to the teaching. They then receive various misinformation, as an example that if a child learns in Bosnian he will not be able to study in the Republic of Serbia, he will not be able to work tomorrow, etc., not to count. This, unfortunately, included some ministry officials, school administrations, some directors, even some teachers. I want to point out something else, even if it did happen, we have a few cases, criminal charges have been filed, that the parents' will in teaching is not respected, but even though they have been defined as teaching in Bosnian, it was interrupted after a few days and classes were implemented in Serbian. The specific problem of realising this teaching is the lack of textbooks, especially for accessories for subjects of particular national importance to national minorities. The most responsible for such a situation are the Institute for Improving Education and Education and National Educational Councils, who have done everything, often inventing some sort of banal reason to prevent the adoption of curricula and the approval of textbooks for this course. There are other problems that stand in the way of the successful implementation of this legal provision. I don't want to count this time. I'll just say that often times as a problem, the use of certain terms appears, which are easily solved with good will. With this bill, Minister, you have indicated, by some of the decisions you have made, that you are defined for the full application of this law, and also in this section relating to the education of the national minorities, and we are giving you a very big confession here and we will support you in this effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19785	Thank you. Just a moment to take an oath from the new MPs. Dear MPs, since the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the MPs in the National Assembly for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the seats of MPs to fill the seats in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on selecting Members of the People finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs: Alexander Seselj, elected from the Electoral List by Dr Vojislav Seselj – SRS, and Ani Čaapić, elected from the Electoral List Aleksandar Vucic - Serbia wins. On the basis of the RIK Decision and the report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments, I find confirmation of the mandate to the MPs Alexander Seselj and Ana Čaapić. Congratulations to the MPs of the election and please prepare to take the oath. Dear People's MPs, please, according to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, honest, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and minority rights and civil liberties and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the People's Messengers to sign the text of the oath and hand it over to me. Let me congratulate you, on behalf of the National Assembly and on my behalf, on your election for MPs and wish you successful joint work in the current term of office. We continue to work on the agenda of the session. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19786	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with my associates, will be focused on the proposal for a law on the foundations of the education and education system, as a basis on which all education is based. The proposed legal solutions will undoubtedly...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19787	I'll give you your time back. Let's go again. MPs, please allow Ambassador Fehratovic to give a speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19788	So my presentation will be focused on the draft law on the basics of the education and education system, as a basis on which all education is based. The proposed legislative solutions will undoubtedly improve the system, especially in a qualitative sense. It is not often underlining criticism that this law will give the minister too much power in his hands to appoint a director. On the contrary, they will prevent previous abuses, especially by local powerful people who see the educational system as a space for partial and criminal action, which has led to the fact that in most cases, the institutions of the competition have become a farce, that the references and competences of teachers and teachers are second-rate in relation to party membership or the willingness to buy a job. Such a type of criminal and immoral employment destroys the educational dimension of the school, and very often it is a key reason for the degradation of general and compulsory education. Infrequently, directors who want to resist these kinds of abuses are powerless because local powers are blackmailing them, threatening to remain in position. The result of this is that the quality of services is getting worse in education, especially in the educational work. Perhaps the most dramatic example of the influence of local political criminal powers on the education system is that we have in the Sandzak cities where, unfortunately, no one who is not close to the ruling SDA parties, the SDP cannot get employment in the profession, regardless of competences, work experience and other references. All principals of primary and secondary schools in Novi Pazar are hostages who come from a criminal mile, has no secondary school, but has an impact on the executive city government. No one in the state education system in Novi Pazar can get a job unless they get this person's consent and, on his orders, the directors fire political unfair staff. In schools in Tutin and Sjenica, too, no one can be employed unless it is a political activist of ruling parties, especially the Party of Democratic Action. The most recent example is teachers and religious teachers who, if they come from the Islamic community in Serbia, directors in Tutin and Sjenica, and in part in Novi Pazar, literally say they received orders from city and municipal administrations not to receive them at work, regardless of what is appointed by the ministry for this type of activity and what has the best reference and pedagogical effect. The result of this relationship with education leads us to the situation that teachers and teachers who thus get a job very often pass this environment on to students. In this regard, the position of members of the City Council and the House of Culture in Novi Pazar who advise young athletes not to worry about school, that their school is their concern in the sense that they do not have to study and learn too much. This is, unfortunately, the current situation and therefore the proposed solutions are seen as the way to the cure of the mentioned anomalies. Also, another of the negative results of this condition is that they are the best, most capable and most credible refuse to bend their spine in front of local authorities and decide to leave the country, leading to the brain drain of an entire generation of intellectuals. As a parent who already has two students, and soon there will be two others, who attend classes in the Bosnian language, I find very important members of 5, 56, 60, and all others who regulate the use of the language of the national community teaching in the native language. Although I still have some problems with the individual teaching content of teaching in Bosnian, I think the shift has been made and that the remaining disagreements will be resolved very quickly. However, in this case, we also have the abuse and self-will of local self-government and some other bodies that very often accuse the Ministry of Obstruction, and in fact they themselves are doing so to reduce the number of classes that teach in the Bosnian language or keep some fictitious jobs, not allowing parents and students to take advantage of this set of positive laws regarding national and human rights. Also, very important segments are working conditions. In one part of the country, we have schools that are empty, and in another that are overcrowded. Let's say, New Market still has three or four schools working on three shifts. The ministry has done a lot of work here, but additional efforts must be made to make it right. For all these reasons, with the conviction that the proposed tools will begin to heal the educational system, in the voting day we will support the law, and of course, as far as the Higher Education Act is concerned, we have submitted some important amendments that will further improve this law and we believe, with the law in general, we are an important step in improving our higher education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19789	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19790	All I have to do is, for the sake of the public, say that I've been to the region a few times and visited Novi Pazar and visited schools, and praised and scolded, normally, it's my job. But let's just tell the public that the problem with textbooks doesn't exist in the fundamental sense of words and that we're working on it and we're over those problems that used to be. I think it was concluded by my presence in your National Council, where I was also a guest, as I recall. Also, about enrolling children in the first class, and the definition of parents in which language they will follow classes, I suggested a model that only makes sense, not under someone's observation to do so, but a parent as well as an election can conclude, put in an envelope and put it in a ballot box. That doesn't put any pressure on either side. I also mentioned that if there's any pressure, you have to report it, if you need to report it to me personally. I agree that in the school board, we're not happy with the people who lead, and that's where the executives change, you understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19791	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Ratko Jankov. By the words of the People's MP Jelena Žarić Kovačević
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19792	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the education and education system in Serbia has been regulated by a set of laws, including today the laws that remain in the form of the proposal, and this proposal for the adoption of new laws. In line with the Education Development Strategy by 2020 and the accompanying action plan, we need to ensure the necessary conditions for the full implementation of the action plan and the achievement of strategic objectives through changes to the existing legal framework. When it comes to the draft law on the basis of education and education systems, on the one hand, we have the traditional values of our educational and educational system, but on the other hand we have the need to comply with European education systems and to transform education and education according to the needs of society, education and education systems must be monitored systematically, as well as changes that come with new times and development of society. This is also the main goal of passing this law, looking at the schooling process from beginning to end and achieving the best possible results. More concrete results of the application of this law will also refer to some examples that I will only single out from the proposal for this law. For example, introducing dual education in secondary vocational education and education, dual education will foster better integration of economy and education at all levels. It is a model of education created according to the needs of the labour market and covers all education profiles. What we could also see from the government programme, presented here by Prime Minister Brnabic, is that there has already been strong support from various companies interested in co-operation with schools and students who choose to attend such profiles. Furthermore, the bill also states that the employment relationship of an employee ends with 65 years of age, or at least 15 years of insurance. It also opens the possibility of establishing an institution according to the model of a public private partnership. The concrete results of the application of the law will also be seen in the area of security, protection and responsibility of participants in the educational-experienced process, and that of all participants. The responsibility for conduct that offends reputation, honor or dignity has also been extended, and the institution's actions are being organised closer when discriminatory behaviour is established, both students and institutions have been strengthened. These are just a few things from that bill. I'll also look back on the proposal for a law on higher education. So this proposal presents problems that will solve and how it will increase the flexibility of standards in relation to labour market needs. We also have some concrete examples that are very good. Higher education institutions will be able to organise short study programmes for one or two semesters and issue a certificate for completed short study programme. On the one hand, higher education institutions thus meet the needs of labour markets, and on the other hand, those who have acquired qualifications improve their employability and thus reduce the total number of unemployed. Also, what is not regulated by the applicable law is work-based study, which is also organised by a higher education institution, and that is for those students who opt for items that carry at least 30 points, which is twice as much as what students who are funded from the budget are referred to. In this way, students who are forced to work or who want to work during their studies are given the opportunity to do so. There is also professional practice, which is an important part of student programs. Furthermore, the proposal to address the problem of unequal evaluation criteria, also improving the quality of the accreditation process, introducing a class of lecturers outside the working relationship, i.e. the introduction of experts, etc. We will see what changes these proposals will take, through the adoption of any amendments, which is what the National Assembly is serving, but mostly the adoption of these laws is just another step forward in the way of developing the education and education system in Serbia and I will support these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19793	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19794	Thank you. Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, we will agree that these are two extremely important laws for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, education is an extremely important area, and therefore it is really unclear for us to adopt these two laws by an urgent procedure, which is why the debate is united, because one and the other law, both on basic education and on higher education, require a full debate and require more time than is allocated to the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, the debates are connected, so we have little time. Of course, it is the desire of all of us to improve the state of education, both in primary and preschool and in high school and higher education. Unfortunately, I am afraid of these statements that you heard from MPs "Enough" and other opposition MPs, in many areas taking a step back, starting with this election of school directors by the ministry, it really shouldn't be so. There's no reason for that. The ministry's job would have to be to monitor the system, to establish clear rules, to establish quality criteria and to monitor the implementation of it, not to select individual people. That's one big step back. We have questions, let's say these plagiarized doctorates we talked about, an opportunity has been missed to take a step forward here, because we also have a lot of reports on the PhDs of the governor of the National Bank and of the mayor and police minister, mayor of Belgrade and president of the municipality of New Belgrade. So, where a lot of evidence has been made that it's plagiarists, it's very clear that the computer compares the texts and can precisely, that the data, unfortunately, we don't have any major shifts in that area. Also, we have some really strange solutions where the ministry and the government are taking on some of the things that the Assembly was supposed to do with regard to the accreditation body of the National Council, etc. There's a lot of talk about it, and we don't understand why it's going that way. It goes directly against a strategy that says that these bodies would have to be independent, not only of the academic community, but also of the ministry and government. These are all some steps that are really going the wrong way for us. Unfortunately, we don't have enough time to talk about them, we have submitted amendments to them all. You've got one confusion that you've introduced into a high school law where you've mixed up a little school year and a year of study, and we'll also talk about it when it comes to amendments. However, I would turn to some of the things we might be able to do, or we should be able to agree on. Kids are very important, and we think education is the right thing to do. What do we mean by that? This means that child education must not depend on the economic strength of parents, i.e., I understand, the minister only mentioned once in his replicas that no textbooks have ever been paid from the budget in Serbia. I think that's one practice we should have introduced even though it wasn't so far. For example, peers of our minors and high school students who are educated in diaspora, in these countries such as Canada, America, EU countries, receive textbooks paid from the budget, are not bought by parents. Average household incomes in Serbia are 57,000 dinars, so total household income, where they enter and earn, often pensions from pensioners who help parents. You'll admit that the average income of 57,000, compared to the prices of textbooks, where one set costs from 10 to even 17,000 dinars, see that the families can't stand it. So this is something where the state should get involved both in primary and secondary education. Then there's always an important question, can we pay for it? Looking at this situation in developed Western countries, where my children initially attended school, you get textbooks, you get notebooks, and then they do it so you don't get it permanently, but to use it, so the devices, let's say for four years, change textbooks, here, the minister confirms that he knows about this practice and practically parents and children have to keep these books, transfer them to the next generation, and then four times these costs are reduced. If we look at Serbia, for example, There are about 560,000 children in primary schools, in secondary schools about 260 thousand, and if we calculate according to this principle for all of them, the total cost of getting textbooks for all children in Serbia is about 0.2-0.3% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's five times less than the budget predicted, for "Er Serbia" subsidies. This is more than ten times less than the losses we paid for Želizara Smederevo in 2014-2016. It is about 2% of the subsidies given to Serbia for incompetent people who run public enterprises or for foreign investors who turn our country into a cheap workforce. I think we should get these things into the law. We have proposed an amendment that says that education is the right of a child, that all the costs of preschool education, primary school, high school must be paid from the budget. The money as explained has enough in the budget, and besides, I think we should introduce some standard quality, so we should limit the number of students in primary and secondary schools, the number of children per tutor, and put it on one level. Because if we really say that Natalie is important in Serbia, if we really say that education is important in Serbia, you will agree, behind these words should be the budgetary definition of the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the amendments that we are talking about and we hope that you will also take into account these corrections that we have made, and especially this member who looks forward to the future, that he will consider you, because budget releases for such a thing are really not that big. Education is and it would have to be the right of a child like the peers of our youngsters who went to diaspora, and more and more children run there, they have that right, it's recognised in those countries. Serbia can certainly pay for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19795	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19796	I approved, because that practice is good. We already started it last year by giving part of the free textbooks to be placed through the library. However, the law that has been passed is almost incomplete. I say and I've mentioned more times, and there are no standards for digital textbooks that are cheaper and we're going to digitize. There's been a fama school and business about it, the textbook isn't the main tool, it's always been an auxiliary, and it's now. It's too much of a character. Anything else, when we talk about free schooling at preschool level, although it has participation, basic and secondary, except textbooks, everything else is not paid. Of course the state pays teachers, electricity, the Internet and all other things. I mentioned, I don't know if you've been in the O.R., I think we'll be here in the House very soon with amendments to the Law on textbooks, where there are many solutions and the framework of that money we think we're going to help the state, and we're going to single out more, because this is a solution. This is really one story that can and must be solved. Otherwise, the standards, the number of students in the department, of course they exist, are controlled through the Dosite system and are constantly updated. What matters is, we have to make sure it's a minority environment somewhere, whether it's a border post or something, but that's where we're gonna try to sort things out, because there's too many kids in some environments. Members from Novi Pazar discussed earlier, there is only great birth in Serbia, there are departments above standards. One school is almost finished, there has to be an emergency wall for another, to dissipate the number of students in primary schools. In Novi Sad, the problem is the same because of intense immigration from other parts of the Vojvodina. In all other parts is the depopulation, the reduction of students. We're taking care of all this. Thanks for the suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19797	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19798	I understand that textbooks are auxiliary, but their burden is too high. Our proposal is to prescribe this very law that this must happen, i.e. the burden of obtaining textbooks, falls on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. The funds have enough illustrative numbers. This would really have to be a priority, I'm surprised it wasn't so far, not just during this government, but the previous ones and those before it. So this is one very important thing. I said the family budget wasn't enough to cover it. For kindergartens, too, that 20% participation is too high. People can't stand it, you must know how important preschool education is. So these are all some things that could be in this law. We've proposed a member who we think would cover it, where we'd hit the ground. So after, say, this Bookbook Act could follow this basic, roof law where we established those principles. As far as these standards are concerned, I think there's a simple way to prescribe maximum. So everyone has to satisfy the maximum and the state has to finance it. In Belgrade, it's also a problem, not only in Novi Pazar, let's say, where we have the same situation, where there are a lot of children, not enough teachers, so we have major departments, and in some areas it's much less. So we're not talking about minimum regulation, it's a second question that's sensitive to all the things you said and rural environments, the question of national communities, etc. but we're talking about the maximums that apply, for example, to Novi Pazar as you said, but also to Belgrade. We think we can lay a foundation for one of these simple members so that after that everyone else can follow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19799	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19800	Many respected presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with vice-presidents, respected Mr. Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have long waited for these two laws, Mr. Minister. Right away, let me say in the beginning that they solve two big problems that the previous authorities couldn't solve for ten years. It is, first of all, that you have returned education and education not only to the law, but with these laws to school, family and society. It's the biggest pedagogical achievement, one of the biggest 15 years. Secondly, you've connected the work and education and the change in the program, and we'll return the contents that the previous authorities have excavated, so we'll say under quotes, from curricula and programmes, especially when it comes to patriotic content. Let me say, Mr. Minister, that the entire education system is under the party of the former regime in a transitional period of one European prestigious level of education and education that we have had sink into the greatest crisis in the history of education and teaching ideas in Serbia. With this claim, all professional educators in philosophy schools and school educators who follow the practice and theory of education and education agree. The former regime's party does not know, or pretends not to know, that the knowledge, education and education of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia is a presumption of democracy. Knowledge, education and education strengthen democracy, and ignorance, ignorance and uneducated favor dictatorships, respected presidents, who has been the last months full of the mouths of opposition leaders, especially the president of the DS political council, Mr. Professor Dragoljub Micunovic. I am shocked by his quality of knowledge and education when he declares, quote -- that in Serbia, dictatorships are on the scene and that the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, is a dictator, finished quote. Such statements are unworthy and a school example of ignorance and do not suit charlatans, let alone university professors. (Maya Vidinovic: What is he talking about? ) His statements that Aleksandar Vucic is quoted – that he demonstrates that parliament is a lot of things and that he wants to crush parliamentaryism, because they bother him, finished the quote. Not only is she untrue, she's bordering herself with common sense. Dear MPs, respected university professors, is it possible that the quality of education and education of University of Micunovic is such that he does not know what dictatorship is. I believe his quality of knowledge is not equivalent to the knowledge of a university professor. After all, he showed his quality after World War II when he was riding the Pope, and I quote his statement... (Maya Vidinović: For God's sake, the President.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19801	I've turned off your microphone. (Maya Vidinović: Shame on you. Don’t get baptized, we’re not in church, there’s no need. (Marian Risticevic: That is Micunovic's statement. ) Ambassador Micunović didn't even mention such a thing yesterday. (Marco Atlagic: a statement from earlier in the press. I know, but it's our duty... Maybe the day before yesterday, but yesterday it wasn't in parliament. (Marco Atlagic: I'll answer if it is, check in the stenogram. No, I'll take the stenogram for sure for myself, not for you. I'll give you back your word, but please pay attention to what words you say. I'm asking for my respect. Sign up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19802	Reverend President, you know that I in this high house, and a citizen, never speak in my head? Do you know? He didn't say this yesterday, I'll give you a date when he did, and yesterday he told the dictatorship to the listener, and I'll quote that, if you want an hour and a second and a minute. That's it. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, many governments in their programmes give education and education a significant place. This was especially done by the former Prime Minister and current President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, because he was aware that the former DS regime, the entire system of education and education, had led to very low branches. When I say very low branches, he was then characterized – first antipedagogisation, expelled education and education from schools. You know, Mr. Minister, because you were one of the most respected teachers in education and education that teachers were not allowed to mention the word education in school, you know very well. So, antipedagogisation, commercialization -- two barrels of the same student, one holding in school, one house, that's what we've contained. Politicalization, red tape, quasi-reforming that has not been implemented, is only now being implemented with these laws and you are implementing it even in certain elements before the law is passed. Ineffectiveness of education and education, poor and expensive textbooks, great corruption, sorosification, which led to the removal of teacher's plans and programmes, patriotic content. I'm giving an example, third grade elementary school, listening to music, it's just "March on the Drin" to get kicked out. Serbian language, Ivan Goran Kovacic, just "The Cave" was found to be thrown out. We'll get those contents back. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic, paid exceptional attention to education and education on eight sides in her performing exhibition. Our esteemed president in his inaugural speech has devoted the importance of reforming education and education, and it consists of what you said yesterday or today, I will only quote four sentences from Mr. President in his speech. I quote, we stop waiting, we start looking, it's the core of this law, one of the principles. We stopped making excuses, we started taking responsibility, that's the principle of this law, whether it's about students, teachers, or parents. We stopped hiding, we started coming out on each other. I'm going out with Professor Micunovic on the line, no problem at all. We've stopped looking for the guilty and the excuses, we've begun to reveal the mistakes in us, it's one of the principles of this law. We stopped hoping that someone would give us something, we started believing that we could create, that's the essence of the law of one and the other, about the basics of education and education, and about higher education. Dear Minister, in the previous period, you know it well, even in the name of the law we had no education, but the law on high school, the law on elementary school, etc. We've had a terrible effort the last four years since the SNS was in power, to get back to the names of the bar without talking about the programs. When it comes to education, what they have objected to today, that violence is less said in law. That's a great thing. Why? Violence is the result of a lack of questioning. We are now introducing programmes, starting from the first grade of primary school, through educational programmes, curricula and programmes, through parental meetings, through co-operation of parents and local communities and schools, local communities, etc., and then there will be no violence. Do you know how long I've been talking about violence? Since 2000. Do you know who forced it here? Sorosch. I'll quote you a book of violence at school, 283 pages, no sentences, somebody find me a word to talk about education. Now, that's the result. You turn around, actually we all get together, process and put it in place. The depth of the sink that the former regime has brought us into education and education, he has sought mobile teams at the Ministry of Education, the result of which these two laws, thanks to you and your associates, Mr. Minister, do I believe so, that you will confirm. Now, allow for specific things that are shyly said today or may not be directly, because it is the Law on Higher Education, because university professors watch and look for answers and they will look for answers in three, four days, because the school year and school year, is it, it begins. It is introduced, for the first time, in a multiparty system as a work-based study newspaper. Please, university professors, this law solves this, where a student who will study at work, enrolling in a suitable year of study, is defined for as many items as it takes to achieve, and at least 30 points, which is twice as much as that student who is financed from the budget. That's the ideal thing to do. One part of the MPs, four years we've suggested it here, to enter the law, but unfortunately it hasn't entered. Dear students, I address you, you will study with work, as many Europeans do, as the minister said, and the world's countries. Second, the introduction of a short study programme - 30 to 60 points, one or two semesters. Dear students, the respected perfect professors of the university, that applies to you. So you're going to have this short program because that's how we're going to respond to market needs, or as you would sometimes say, those who don't know, joint work, which are older generations, but it's going to be a semester or two, and that way it's going to be able to actively engage in the process of education and education. The introduction of joint sessions of the National Council for Higher Education and the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, then the Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults, at least twice a year, and I believe that this will be more. That's the ideal thing to do. That's the practice. I have a case of one, he's finished management, I say where you're going to work – I don't know what it is – I don't know. Here, we're not gonna get students like that. Thank you for putting it into the law. Furthermore, the Institute of Employers Council is being established by a higher education institution, in this case a university whose task is to develop study programmes. This, gentlemen professors and MPs, is important. That's it. Our study programs weren't good, because employers, that is, the economy didn't participate in the design and then we got, let's say, experts who didn't fit the economy and society. Based on this, competences are acquired which employers recognize and which ones they seek. Here, that's the point. Furthermore, the introduction of a class of lecturers outside of working hours. That's what the professors ask me yesterday, they've been calling today all day to explain it, even though they'll explain it in college, but they're impatient. It is about top experts in the real sector, who would sort of pass on their top achievement to students. You're gonna ask why they're not in college? Because of the profits that are lower in college, in higher education they have no interest in being elected to college. Out of their working hours, they will offer top-of-the-line achievements to our students. Thank you, Mr. Minister, and for this. The National Council for the so-called so-called National Council is being established. an accreditation body. In one sentence, it was the biggest mafia in education. Look how brave I have to say it. There won't be any more. It will be independent now from both the Ministry and the Assembly, it will have its executive body, it will have its director, and I will continue to stay out of the details. This is important, I see there's been a misunderstanding in these two days. A single Educational Information Number led by the Ministry is being introduced. But the register of accreditation higher education institutions is being introduced, the second register of accreditation and study programmes is being introduced, and the programme will no longer be made up, one teaching unit. A unique information number is being introduced, so-called JOB which represents the key to identifying all data on one student. No more manipulations. Eight, the dean's term is three plus three, with them not counting back on this. That means, since they asked, those who've been back 10 years can compete for that place. Next thing you know, you're out of a college job relationship. That's settled, I can address professional services, so I don't talk about this, address the department's professional services. Now, if you'll excuse me, the university manager is being introduced. I suggested introducing a manager to colleges as well. It used to be, you know, college directors in one of the former socialists, to say so, the republic and it proved extraordinary. The dean ran the teaching science thing, and the manager knows what he's doing. Allow me, since I didn't leave this House yesterday, for the sake of the reputation of this tall House, Mr. Minister, I see you've responded very well when it comes to migrants. One representative of a minor political group spoke so badly of migrants, which does not belong to this tall House, the Serbian people and the Serbian state. It is on migrants that Serbia has gained its reputation around the world, as both European and world officials acknowledge. This representative of the minor political group is a professor, but he needs to know so much that during World War I, besides others, France has educated 6,000 of our students and students, and 4,000 of them on its cost. Is it true, gentlemen, Professor of the Minor Political Group, or not? On behalf of the High House, on behalf of the party to which I belong, I apologize to all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for the insults that the professor, MP and representatives of the minor group made to this high House yesterday. Let me finally say, when it comes to the quality of education and education, one sentence. What is this quality of knowledge of the university professor who has said these days, and her name is Dr. Vesna Pesic, should know, or is she pretending not to know what Fascism and dictatorship is? She, believe it or not, called the president of the state of Alexander Vukic to Mussolini, and called all of us in the party and MPs to fascists. I recommend, as a fellow professor, that this text she published in a daily list be entered into her living room, that she be reminded daily of her high scientific thoughts and achievements. When it comes to the barrel, I recommend to the Institute for Promotions and the authors of three sentences at the beginning, from which the essence of all the programs will come. First sentence - no work, no life. Second sentence - I love my parents. Third, I love my country. Based on that, it'll spread all the way to the end. In the end, let me say a few more sentences for the insults that I have said to God, and I am obliged to explain as a man of the profession, and related to the quality of education. They said when I said the nicknames this morning that I'd taken care of it. I need to warn the gentlemen of the professors who are here that the nicknames are being studied by an auxiliary historical science called toponymics. He said a representative of the party of the former regime, he's not unfortunately here, that the students listen to me. My students know that, one wrote, is now an extraordinary professor at the university, "The nicknames of Dubrovnikians in the Middle Ages". I will explain what this is about, because of the citizens of Serbia and my authority in the university and this high House. For example, a man who sold skin was named Gjorgo or Jorjo Benčetić – Kožar. So his profession is a nickname. The man who drank, say the drunk, the name and last name. So nicknames in some way reflect titles, occupations, but also bad things, for example. to me and you or anyone else. For example, I am obliged to explain the dates, the day, the month and the second, because in this House I don't want to say anything by heart. When I told one man he was a bankruptcy king, then let me quote only three sentences. So on April 14, 2011, in a list of police combs the king's bankruptcy. On 16 April 2011, the bankruptcy manager sent the workers away, and the companies were robbed. It's about who it's about. I'm not going to say my name. On April 27, this boy, the bankruptcy king, was caught. Next, he speaks to the king of bankruptcy - the Bruce, how much money you stole, the next title. Madam President, I will never say anything in my mind in this house without following the sources. Secondly, to a gentleman whose letter tried to insult me, given my age, I also recommend to her all MPs from her MP group, that you be witnesses, 64 steps will run, and they will be under 30 years old. That's it. To her knowledge and discipline. In the end, I suggest that the laws be passed and I think that we will really bring implementation to the level and I'm glad that, Mr. Minister, parents already know this in schools, but unfortunately MPs and some teachers don't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19803	Thank you. Here you go, Alexandra Jerkov. You wanted a replica, Tatiana Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19804	Good afternoon. I would like to point out the breach of Rule 106(1) of the Rules of Procedure. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. With this in mind, nothing that has been presented in the last few minutes has anything to do with education that today is the topic on the agenda of the Assembly. Also, during the speech of the People's Parliament, I only said it contained topics. There was no insult. I said one word, and that's the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19805	He didn't mean you, but Janjušević's letter, and that was during the afternoon session. I know exactly who he meant and who insulted him by saying he was a certain number of years old. I reacted because I don't think years here are relevant to our political discussions. If you want, we'll vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Sasa Radulovic. Please allow us, if the MP has been identified, to explain what he's identified as. As president, I think he's entitled to a replica because he thinks he's been recognized. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19806	Thank you. I don't know how many minutes it's been talking about anything but the agenda point, the bankruptcy story, the other bribery that really has nothing to do with the truth. Of course, I'm proud of everything I've done in bankruptcy, saved a lot of trustees' property, a lot of people went to jail for it, for what I did. If there was anything that had been disputed so far, five years had passed since they were in power, they would have been prosecuted. You should remember when I was a minister what they said. But the point of all this is: five years are in power, none of these things they only talk about have done. So, listen here, I don't know how many minutes it really takes for all Serbian citizens to distract some things that have nothing to do with the subject. This is a very important topic that we have today, meaning two laws – the Law on Fundamental Education, the Law on Higher Education, we need to discuss it. We have very little time because the debate is united, according to us, for inexplicable reasons. The law is also an emergency procedure. Some things in the law don't work. We need to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19807	Ambassador, you repeat your discussion and reply with a replica to what has been directed to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19808	Excuse me, this is my replica. Don't interfere. I know you have a problem with the replica, so stop interfering.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19809	I don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19810	You were supposed to stop an MP from abusing his position and talking about everything except the agenda point. I, in the replica, have the right to say what I mean. So we're not talking about the subject, we're not talking about the agenda point, we're talking about everything except the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19811	Where does it say that exactly? Here, I repented that I gave you the replica because you don't respect the Rules of Procedure. (Saša Radulovic: Shame on you. Shame on you. ) Thank you, Professor, for trying to defend me, it is not necessary. I've put up with a lot of things, and I've been ashamed of myself, and I hear a lot of things without a microphone. I'm glad you're not embarrassed that... Please, MPs, let me just continue to hold the session. Everyone talks about themselves when they get a chance and get a microphone. Take it easy. The MP doesn't know what replicas are, he doesn't know what the Rules of Procedure is, it's my fault I gave the word after all. Marko Atlagic, try to answer. (Alexandra Jerkov: Replica. You said the replica first, and then you rebelled. You have no right, I don't know what you're being challenged for. (Saša Radulovic: Pretending to be ignorant. All right, you're pretending to be ignorant. When you were a minister, you were fine. Please interrupt the session for two minutes. Two-minute break. I don't let anyone insult me, and I don't want anyone to say it. I'm an opposition. I have the right to insult. You have no right to insult. [[After a break.]] Here you go, replica. Professor Marko Atlagic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19813	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, what about the previous speaker when he says that we are not in the subject of education, quality of education and education? If it wasn't true what he said, he sued me for slander and insult in this high house. I have to inform the public that I've received first-degree and second-degree court, but the gentleman has not dared to come to court. Imagine, that previous speaker was even a candidate for the president of the state, but he must know that I have every solution of his, when he's punished and by how much. Thank you. So much for the record.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19814	Thank you. The word is Ljupka Mihajlovska. You have one minute and 12 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19815	I don't have enough time. I'm waiting for them to calm down, I can't hear myself. (Alexandra Jerkov: Replica to previous exhibition. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19816	I'm shocked.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19817	Just give me my time and everything's fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19818	I'm shocked. What a normal person who tries to run a session can do here...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19819	You called Alexandra. Since they won't let me speak, I'm using the opportunity to invite you to coffee to apologize nicely and to explain to you everything your closest associates obviously didn't explain in terms of inclusive education. I have an objection to the fact that no one is involved in teaching competences. Thirty plus six ENPBs for someone who works in education, compared to 300 ECPBs to how much they need to acquire during basic and master academic studies is terrible. I have an objection to the mention of the development groups in the law, since you took a 47m-euro loan...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19820	Let me interrupt you because your group, thanks to previous speakers, minutes and 12 seconds... (Vladimir Djuric: She started talking, you didn't hear her. ) You know what, it's obvious to me that MPs from the MP group are sick of wanting incidents here, wanting to cheat on Serbian citizens. So Ljupka Mihajlovska got the word, their MP group had one minute and 12 seconds left, she said a minute and 25 seconds after which they decided to insult me. What do I have to say now, under these insults – here, here, talk as much as you want? (Saša Radulovic: Shame on you. No one insulted you. You're telling the truth. ) You know what, maybe your environment from which you came approves of speaking – lying, circus, what this looks like. My environment thinks it's a misdemeanor. So we're not from the same mile, what do I do now? My environment doesn't come to the president of any body and talks like this. We're different. If anyone wants to continue, Aleksandra Mike has his time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19821	Dear Presidents, the Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs and MPs, respected ministers and representatives of the ministry, today we have two very important laws ahead of us. Two laws that are reform and that took great courage to do the two laws, passed before parliament and that these two laws would be passed. First of all, it takes courage for these two laws to be implemented in practice, because no reform is easy, but it is especially not an easy reform in terms of education, because it is a very important and sensitive subject and, above all, determines the future of entire generations that will be educated in Serbia in the future and will do all the jobs in our country in the future. What makes me happy and what I heard on the Education Committee, that the minister announced that soon changes and additions to the rules stemming from the Law on Education, as well as the Law on the Financing of Higher Educational Institutions came to the Assembly, but what made me most happy was that the minister announced that in his term he wanted to introduce secondary education in Serbia to become mandatory. I will be very proud if it is in this term when I am an MP, that I can raise my hand for it, because I think it will bring us closer to the countries that are more developed than we are and that it will represent a historic turning point in the history of education in Serbia. What are some of the most important things in these two draft laws is the introduction of a single information system in education, which in one place will have information about both students and employees and education institutions, but also a unique educational number that the student will receive at the beginning of his education. I believe that this unique educational number is very important, not only because there will be all data about the student in one place, but also because among these data will include information about his prizes, his successes and so forth. I think that in the current way of education, Serbia has always, as in society as a whole, paid the most attention to those who are the worst, so he worked with them both as a educator and psychologist, and it seems to me that those who were the best students and students have always been neglected in some way in the system that is behind us. This unique educational number will allow the child to be followed careerly, as well as that his success is projected. What I particularly like about the bill in front of us is the merger of economy and college, i.e. that, for the first time, the university will be able to establish a company and that it can use money to improve the services of the university, or exclusively to use money for it. I think that's also very important to overcome some sort of constituency that we inherited and which has been in Serbia for a long time, so that those who are the best, who are able to manage companies, are brought in with the help of college managers. If he earns that money, that money should be directed at providing some new or development of old services and that the management and administration of the university itself depends, in fact, on the quality of education at the university. The laws increase the responsibility of all participants in the education system, so we have a case that in case a child is injured by discipline at school, a parent pays a fine, in case a parent is uninterested in the child's grades, then a child can be determined by a representative who is most often a psychologist at school, if a student hurts discipline at school, he can be determined by socio-helpful work, and I particularly like the fact that the child is more specific about what obligations are, both school boards, i.e. managing authorities, as well as the director. In an earlier draft law, i.e. in the still valid bill, it writes in many places what the director can do, but I think it's very important to say what he has to do, because what he can do, and he doesn't have to, and what he has to, it's his obligation. With a lot of some, as I would say, legal institutes that, of course, implicate in the practice of major changes, such as study by work, which were mentioned by some of my colleagues so that I won't repeat myself, short study programmes, lifelong education, the fact that members of student parliaments are two years ago members, instead of a year ago, which I think is good in practice. Then, the announcement that there will be an increase in the number of free textbooks that have been given so far, this year, it seems to me, 86,000 free textbooks, but the announcement that this number will certainly increase is important, because the need for this is constant. High school reform. As someone who went to high school, it always seems to me that me and my peers lacked choice in some cases, that we could direct ourselves, and then we would certainly have more interest in what we learn; then, reform of secondary vocational schools, which I think is very important, because as someone from the ministry said, these are schools that require the most financial resources, and their technology of work is based on factory technology 20 years ago. All these reforms that you have listed in the laws, as well as the announcement that the reform processes are already in 2018, give me hope that order will be introduced into the education system, give me hope that the educational level of the population will increase and give me hope that some new generations that are moving or already in the education system will have a much better quality education than in the previous 20 years, when I, somewhat younger or older than me, have passed through that education system. Anyway, full of support and praise for these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19822	Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19823	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. I called a while ago. I don't know if you've heard that Mr. Atlagic called Mr. Micunović a charlatan in his presentation, and what he's saying is on the verge of common sense. Another thing, Mrs. Gojkovic, article 107. In such a way, you discriminate against people with disabilities in this congregation, that it has exceeded every measure. If you haven't heard of Mrs. Mihailovski reporting for a word, that a minute has been trying to speak while you pretend not to hear her, and she can't speak as other MPs because she can't get up and get to the microphone, there are no conditions to approach the microphone, then that's one thing, but certainly for her behavior you should apologize to her. It really doesn't make sense for you to act like this, you know that her companion had trouble getting into the congregation when you banned citizens from entering the congregation. Don't treat the MPs like that. I understand you're biased. I understand that you intend to give more rights to MPs. I understand that your colleague Martinovic has ordered you to give more than Atlagic a replica, so you can stop it, even though you told me before that I would be entitled to a replica. But don't, Mrs. Gojkovic, make this real out of the Parliament, it's a shame. It's a shame you're acting like a president. It's a shame you're doing this. Don't break Article 107. Do not insult the dignity of the Assembly, the dignity of the citizens, and do not treat the MPs in this way. I understand you won't answer, but do it in a more elegant way, not to mention Martinovic gives you instructions on how to run the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19824	The word has a folk MP, Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19825	Yes, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, although I would really be entitled to a replica under Rule 104, because the MP has misused the Rules of Procedure, the institution of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, in order to make it impossible for me to answer it by Article 104. Because what she said was a serious insult. Major insult, the greatest insult any MP has experienced in a year as far as we do here. That I'm insulting an MP because he's disabled. Well, shame on you! (Alexandra Jerkov: Yes, you do. Well, punish me, Chairman. You're punishing me because I'm going to say, really if he can't fight politically, if he doesn't know how he's going to win Serbian citizens' votes in a different way, then this is really the highlight of the intellectual, political, which she has achieved today, to insult the chairman who has disabled people in the family. (Diana Vukomanovic: We all have people with disabilities. To offend someone, to discriminate on someone on that basis, then it is really the bottom that this Parliament can experience. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19826	I'm setting a two-minute break until conditions are met to continue the work of the Assembly. [[After a break.]] We're moving on with our work. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19828	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, here are today two important legislative proposals. I would actually say one common congregation day when we show how the institutions of this country function effectively. Today, it is also a day when we show what a political system looks like in which its actors honor the promised and fulfill the word they made, in the day that they took an oath in this honored home. In fact, not so long ago, the prime minister for the new government, and today, the prime minister here has explained to us the government's work programme, and somewhere at the end of that programme, there is a chapter 6 that speaks clearly of education. Just what is before us today is the fulfillment of the programme, which was then supported by SNS MPs, the party's support in general and ultimately the party president and the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic. What's interesting about that program, I have to say, she's given an accent on a few things her team and the education ministry will do in the future. I mention that this is the availability of entrepreneurial education, the improvement of the quality of higher education, but certainly taking into account the status of employees, teachers, the status that they actually deserve in this society. Somewhere in earlier debates, although they tried to degrade this proposal of yours by the opposition, I don't think they did, my fellow SNS MPs brought out a lot of good things contained in these legal proposals. I've prepared some, so I'll simply point out, and some of them are saying again the ones I'm going to mention, tried to find a way to discredit the law itself. Looking at the article. 3.4 and 5, as someone who comes from a multi-national environment, which is certainly a Saturday, I know how important education is to my neighbors in their native language, and it is clear that these members are absolutely given the right education of every man and every single person in this country, every group from whatever they come from. What is good in Article 5 is certainly education in the language of the national minority and with the obligation to learn Serbian language during education. In this regard, it is also a member of 123 where the right to give an opinion to the National Council is not taken away when it comes to the appointment of a school director, but as some non-binding and some element to be given within a 15-day legal period. However, what I particularly fell for the eye in the bill itself is this Article 23. Dear Ministers, these midwives, the great patriots of Serbs and Orthodox people, have tried, and God will know what they are about to discredit the law on this article. Namely, this member was given the possibility of training and children of migrants travelling through this country, and I note for the sake of Serbian citizens, there are several dozen of them and there are fewer from day to day, because their journey and their final destination is not Serbia. However, if you take a closer look, I congratulate you on this article for giving your children the opportunity to be educated who have applied for citizenship. I note, compared to these few dozen migrant children who are now educated in Serbia. You have tens of thousands today only in the Republic of Serbia and the Federation of BiH, in consulates you have over 50,000 applications for citizenship. If you add to this a request for citizenship in Montenegro, Macedonia, Croatia, Hungary and other countries in the environment, I think that number is measured by hundreds of thousands. You have enabled this member of your children, our countrymen from the environment, to adequately engage in the educational system of the Republic of Serbia. I think that's something that's crucial to our entire people, and I really congratulate you on this. On the one hand, you have something that you have shown, which is a feature of Serbian society, humanity, child care, whatever it was called, even if it was a tenth, seventy, eighty or hundreds of migrant children, and on the other hand you have hundreds of thousands of citizens involved in this law in the education system in the Republic of Serbia. I am extremely grateful to you as a MP. As for Article 71, he is very similar here and I see that it is possible for children and students who are constantly or temporarily staying abroad, it is also possible to conduct teaching in Serbian and organise themselves according to a special programme, and that is to say, concern about diaspora and Serbs in the environment. There is another member who allows teachers to work abroad. I don't want to talk about it anymore. This second proposal for a law on higher education, two things caught my eye, and I think it's important today for every student in Serbia, to introduce a study with work, and I don't know how much to explain, because I think it's a crucial thing today. This legislative proposal allows each student in Serbia to work, earn and thus facilitate both his life and his family's life and that additional time has been given to complete the study. What I missed as a student at one point was the introduction of a class of lecturers outside of working hours. This is a way to get people from the real sector involved in this teaching program, and it will certainly enable a student to get more involved in a working environment, a higher salary in the beginning, and about businessmen not to talk, because he will get a man who will be more easily integrated into his system. Minister, I've just listed some, but there's plenty of positive and progressive things that we can support this legal solution for. As you said yourself, time can also bring about some changes, there may be some shortcomings, nothing is nailed, but certainly it is a brave step in trying to create a better society and try to improve the quality of education in Serbia. I mention once again as an MP for the SNS parliamentary group, in the voting day I will certainly support both legislative solutions. I'm also calling on opposition people who have been trying to discredit this law for days, to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19829	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19830	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, before us, on the second day, are two very important laws, laws in the field of education, and this is the Law on the founding of a system of education and education and the Law on Higher Education. What I first want to say is what I want first to praise is the previous procedure, i.e. the procedure that preceded the adoption of the law, which is one partnership relationship of the ministry with all those relevant factors which both of these laws apply to. It's an absolutely transparent procedure, it's a public debate, it's a publication of a bill on your site, where all those who had the need to take part in the adoption of this law in an adequate way, they took it. What I particularly want to pay attention to, which is the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, but I will focus on one group, i.e. one part of the legal provisions that I want to commend, which is, in fact, the recognition of the Ministry of Education that for children, students and adults who need additional support and help provide adequate education and education in accordance with their potentials and their needs. This group concerns children, students and adults who for various reasons have been denied to meet educational needs, as regards persons with developmental difficulties, as regards persons with disabilities, as regards members of Roma and other so-called Roma. vulnerable groups. What I also want to praise is that the Ministry has recognised the adoption of individual educational plans, which is the obligations of schools, i.e. school experts, who, in accordance with the needs of each child and in accordance with their potential, work on individual educational plans. Also, I want to commend and recognise the Ministry of Education, which concerns the work of the Interresor Commission, because it is not only for some children who are deprived of adequate support for an individual educational plan, there is also a need for additional support, as well as for the exercise of the right to services and education and health and social support. The Interresor Commission is the one that, based on the development needs of the child and on its basis, and of course on students and adults, implies everything, proposes measures and services to which each particular child and student should be provided in order to meet the educational needs of the school adequately and in good time. What you also recognize in the law and what you are norming by law is the need of pedagogical and Andragogic assistants, but you also recognize very well in the law that it is necessary to involve personal followers, especially children and students who cannot move on their own, who cannot feed on their own, who need support, in fact in maintaining hygiene, in communication, etc. Also, as members of the Interresor Commission, other than those provided for by law, it is also necessary to include it, and you also recognize it in the law and the person who knows the child very well, or someone who is close to the child. It's the most common parent, or legal representative. Of course, in those cases where there is no such thing, they are representatives of a social protection institution, which is legally and obliged to provide family legal protection to such children. In the domain of these persons of this category of particularly sensitive and vulnerable, what is new in this law and what I particularly stress and what I particularly want to praise, these are resource centers. These are, in fact, centres that will be set up and provide additional support and assistance to institutions involving both children and students and adults, but to provide support and assistance to the Interressor Commission for these children in order to use asyssistic technologies. Of course, not only will they not only provide assistance in the use of assistive technologies, but they will provide assistance and achieve one coordination and co-operation and with experts who will be able to train these users to use assistive technologies. I hope that by means of a sublegal act that I have seen you bring in cooperation with other competent ministries, which is the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of State Administration, you will be able in an adequate way to standardise the establishment of resource centers, because it is more than certain that such centres are necessary for the full development of persons who have difficulty in developing. Finally, I would like to say that for every commendation, it is the creation of a single information system of education, not only for the purpose of data collection, as regards students, as well as institutions, but also for the analysis of these data to monitor the effects of law enforcement and law enforcement, but also for the recognition of the lack of law. I have to say that the biggest gain is the formation of a single information system, just as it provides a starting point and a planning base, and planning is the basis for the success of all systems and all segments of our society, especially segments of education and education. Investment in education and education is not a cost, it is an investment, Serbia and the SNS want the Republic of Serbia to be a society of knowledge and we will certainly support both laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19831	The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovačević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19832	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I would first of all like to extend my gratitude to you and your associates for their dedicated work in the field of education. You've shown how even the most complex problems can be solved by commitment. The proposal for a law establishing a system of education and education has joined the goal of adapting the concept of development of the overall system of education to the time and conditions in which this process can take place in Serbia, while respecting the need to bring the development of the European system of education and education of developed countries into line. The educational level of Serbia's total population, regardless of the long tradition of compulsory primary and secondary education, is not satisfactory. Indicators of the level of education of the population, i.e. school preparation, literacy and computer literacy, are directly linked to the degree of social economic development. The data suggest that further engagement of the system is needed, both educational and others who can provide support, because this low level of education is one of the causes of poverty transfer through generations, especially among the Roma population. Raising the level of education is an effective way to reduce poverty. I think we're all aware of that. Some key data on the achievements of our students in the international knowledge-checking programme in 2012 show that our students are not prepared enough to live in modern society. In solving this problem, it is necessary to create legal preconditions. The resolution of this law will affect students, parents, teachers, educators, institutions, citizens, businesses, businesses and entrepreneurs. So we took the first step. The outcome of applying these provisions can be extremely positive for all relevant factors that I have mentioned. It is important that everyone contributes to the implementation. Every day we could hear in the people that our education system was bad. We are just taking the first step towards modernising and transforming the education system. Ladies and gentlemen, let's support the law and appeal to all the participants in the system to make their maximum contribution to the continued implementation of this law in practice. We can all contribute to our level of education both higher and better quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19833	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19834	Mr. Minister, if this law is as good as you and the ruling majority say and if it has so much social support and support for the professional public, then explain to me, please, how did we get a large number of objections to this law from the union of educators? Also, explain to me how a large number of objections has been made by the National Educational Council on the proposal of your law? And let me remind you that the National Educational Council is made up of people who represent the most professional institutions in the Republic of Serbia, representatives of all state universities, the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, the Mother of Serbian, as well as professional associations, the societies of mathematicians, physicists, chemists, geographers, various art artists and educators, etc. etc. Does this then disprove the fact that you have great social support for relevant and professional associations to pass such laws? I'll look back on something you said yesterday. I have heard that it is often pointed out that there will be no political abuses and participations with this law and that you will not allow it personally and that you will be able to resist such pressures, and even said that you personally know 700 school directors in Serbia and that you will be able to monitor the situation in each of the 1751, as you said, schools that we have in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and that you will be able to judge and make decisions. The practice of your actions so far does not allow me to believe you, but I must present my suspicions and evidence that you will act differently. I mean, if you could send me to 1700 schools, I really can't believe it, because July of this year, you're not able to answer a simple parliamentary question for me, not you, not a whole team of your ministry. Namely, I asked you -- what was it called, from establishment to today, the University of Pristina, which is now based in Kosovo, Mitrovica, or has the University of Kosovo ever been called in Pristina? I still don't have an answer, although the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly obliges you to deliver me within two weeks. Here, it's been three months, I don't have an answer to that question. Then how can you escort all 1751 schools when you can't get six state universities to answer his name? I remind you that a large number of diplomas from that university are in legal traffic, which are falsified and bear exactly the name – the University of Kosovo in Pristina, and that is never the name of the university. A large number of state officials, prosecutors, police officers, court experts have just such degrees. Please just be on the alert and deny me and give me an official answer to that question. Another fact that shows that you cannot be impartial and disenfranchised by party colour is the case with the National Educational Council. Since the National Educational Council has expressed itself negatively on the proposal of your law, which makes up, I repeat, highly educated people, representatives of the most relevant academic communities in Serbia, you have replaced the president of the National Educational Council, the man who was the procurator of the university, the dean of the Faculty of Mathematics, who had his primary, secondary, university education, doctoral and post-doctoral studies at the most prestigious universities across Europe, Russia, etc., over 40 scientific papers. And that's not controversial. All right, you don't agree, you don't mind, you've replaced him. It happens. You'll be changing school directors as well, it's not a dispute. But you have proposed and elected Mr. Milibor Sakovic's Assembly Committee as the new president of the National Educational Council, the man who is the director of the First Economic School and more than 50% of his biography are doing things such as: arranged the facade, arranged the fence, arranged the yard, painted the school, etc., made the site of the school etc. These are technical things that are meant to be. Well, you've got kids who can do it with some of their associations. Does that make it relevant, will you choose school directors in such a way tomorrow? That's why I can't agree with your claims, and I have reason to doubt you'll be doing exactly what we've been warning you from the opposition for two days now. Lastly, I am pleased to hear from the mouth of the SNS MP that migrants are Serbia's future, because how else do I explain that 40,000 young people, highly educated people leave Serbia every year, that we have a terrible outflow, and that the state does nothing to prevent it, only by saying that an esteemed colleague shortly before my address that migrants are Serbia's future, which is today, I will remind you, and I will also tell you that US Ambassador Scott, that for many migrants, the ultimate destination will be Serbia. Is that how you want to suppress the lack of new young people in Serbia and therefore do not worry about the outflow? Because, this law, even if it is as good as you say, will not solve anything, because we have serious social problems that can hardly be solved by only one party, which are inherited, but are generated by a bad government that has already entered the sixth year of its mandate, which is unable to cope with the inability of perspective for young people, the inability to progress, because wrong values are being promoted. It's being promoted that an EPS director can be the man who owns the roast. It promotes the purchase of diplomas. How many people in the public sector have bought diplomas? It's being promoted on television instead of science, instead of knowledge, instead of work, instead of effort. Please, Minister, we also knew how to commend you, so that you could be our associate to change that. It's being promoted on TV drug addicts, prostitution, selective justice. What does that young man say when he sees all this, when he sees the perpetrators who throw people out of their apartments because they can't serve bills because of their lack of money and when he sees the obvious injustice everywhere? Now, if we don't solve it, Mr. Minister, we're free of any laws, and that's Serbia's key problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19835	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19836	I have to answer that our Serbian State University is a Pristina University based in Kosovo Mitrovica, and there is no other. Anything else that has papers, I don't know who they are, whether they're private, whether they're Albanian. This is Serbian, there's no dilemma. I need to look at the paper so I can tell you that. I'm sure I'll tell you how it is. When it comes to union objections, I don't accept, I've said it many times today, for the basic reason they were the main partners. You know how, I had to take some things out of public debates. It may not have been my solution, so it doesn't have to be all unional, but let them count how many members of union solutions are accepted in joint work, all the protection of workers and everything else has passed, so it's either hypocritical or we weren't together. I have evidence that we were together and worked together, because methodologically, I mentioned yesterday, we had a prep platform behind which he was working with four major unions representatively. It took maybe a month and a half to two, member by member. And when she's somewhere I have meetings, they stay until I get there, let's see what we've done for that day. By agreeing and consensus, we've reached 90 percent of all things, all trade unions and the Ministry, the task force. Of course everyone had two or three more members, which is less relevant, they can't all go through. Well, and there will be amendments here, there won't be an original of this law as he entered here the other day. When it comes to shifts, I don't change shifts, of course. I just gave the initiative. That's the difference. The president of the National Education Council and I have no personal reason, formerly, of course, to have personal conflicts. I've had a conflict with the management of the institution and with standing the system in place, with not solving things. It's described on many sides. As I recall, the entire Committee on Education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia unanimously made such a decision and all members of the opposition. At least that's what I'm told if I'm not mistaken. Secondly, the current choice of a working man is a temporary choice. You know that after the law is passed, that's the right choice. I'd take a chance, we talked about it a lot yesterday, and it wouldn't go unsaid. I mentioned that we were investigating how many countries Europe has and how it handled the issue of the National Educational Council, because here it's not saying that the minister is someone who's in college, or is an advisory body like the NPS, it's just his name saying that it's advisory, someone who controls the Ministry in that way. There's no such thing as control. Control is the National Assembly. So he can't advise a body in his nature to do that. So, the institutions need to get some initial assignments from the Ministry. That's what technology looks like. Then it goes to the NPS. They, as a body of experts, need to give advice and advice, and so it is in all European countries and Russia. Russia doesn't even have such a body, Slovakia doesn't have such a body. In Spain, the minister appoints a president. His role is strictly advisory. In Portugal, the president also proposes parliament's election, only prepares education councils. In Italy, the president of the NPS is himself a minister, for example. Interesting. It is assumed that they are on the same task, that they have the well-being of the children of Serbia, or Spain, whoever. Its role is the same – an advisory body which gives its opinion to the minister. I don't know why the minister would be in opposition with any of them. That's the problem. Maybe someone made a story like that, but it wasn't. And I don't have anything personal. France -- the president is the education minister at the National Education Council, and says he has the right to take an opinion alone. I can continue to direct you all other European countries. That's what one face was made of. It's basically gone. The education system does not stand by the minister imposing his opinion, style of work, at least in this ministry is the creation of expert teams and groups. I can send an e-mail for any chance of how many groups are formed and who have made it a prominent person. Of course, let's call our brains from our colleges and whoever turned up on the side as a good expert, we invited him. Some people took it, some people couldn't, but that's the way it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19837	The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović. Five minutes and 12 seconds left for the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19838	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, since I have very little time, I will try to be brief. I want to say something that I think is really important and it's about how the director is elected. I really think that in a large number of schools in Serbia, directors do their job well and are successful schools, but as you said in the opening presentation, there are also negative examples where it is not possible to establish a clear responsibility and where it is not possible to replace the director, because six of the nine members of the school board are from the line of employees or from the order of parents who are naturally connected to the director himself and there are some relationships and some of the safeguards that are negatively reflected in school. I think Chuck is exactly the best example of it. I'm really obliged to tell the truth about what's been going on in Chačka. You've changed two directors to Chačka. It's two schools where not a small number of girls reported sexual harassment by a teacher who works at both schools. I've been working on this subject a little bit, talking to students and members of the collectives, and some people who studied at that school five or ten years ago, and I've come to a frantic realization that these events happened years ago. And five and ten years ago, it was practically a public secret in those schools. Everyone knew, but nobody did anything. After that, the Citizens' Protector issued a recommendation for the removal of those directors, however, the school boards associated with the director ignored the recommendation. The only one who reacted was the minister. And good for him. Instead of all commending it and having an honest attitude and telling you every honor of it, we don't like those directors you've set up, we have the charges that the minister made the coup, that I don't know what he did in Chačka. I think it's very incorrect and I wonder if there is empathy in these people and the awareness that it could have happened to their children, their friends' children, and that it simply shouldn't be used for political promotion. Of course, it was dominated by my chachasing colleague, better known as Bosko Pernar, but there is one much scarier thing he's done since the attack on the minister himself. He accused the minister of setting up a principal who had never worked in elementary school in a primary school. Marija Pradić, director of the elementary school "Milica Pavlovic" and worked for four years at the Kirilo Savic elementary school in Ivanjica. He also accused the minister of becoming head of a high school woman who had never worked in high school. Milica Tomic is the director of "Food Restaurant School". For over 10 years she worked in class, and of those 10 years she spent in a high school of economics and medicine. So, brutal lies we've heard, demeaning and humiliating women for this pay phone, and I'm just wondering how it's supposed to feel for people who've spent the whole working century dedicated to teaching, to finishing state colleges, to have high averages, and then experienced that someone on national television, in front of millions of viewers, is lying about their careers. I think it's really important that this colleague, as soon as you get back to Cachak, apologize to those people first and for the lies you made about them. That I don't take any more time, I really think there's some logic, given that the minister and local self-government are the essences of the will of citizens, and it's logical that they have the opportunity and the right to say their views on these directors. At the end of the line, the minister puts his signature on the appointment of the director, and in this situation he does not have the opportunity to express his opinion on him. That's why I think this new law is good, and it's just so we can solve situations like this, where we've had bad schoolwork, and for years it can't be solved because of such legal solutions. Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19839	On what basis, colleague Obradovic? (Bosko Obradovic: He mentioned me directly. No, he said when one of his colleagues returned to Cachak. (Bosko Obradović: My Chačani colleague Bosko. ) The word has been given by the MP Srdjan Nogo, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19840	Please, Mr. Arsic, let's bring the session to an end, normal course. Article 104 makes it very clear that the MP has the right to reply if it has been mentioned in a negative context. So he mentioned Bosko from Casca. Bosko's only MP from Cačka is Bosko Obradovic. Don't pretend. Even if it's not a direct name and a last name, if it comes out clearly of whom it means. Don't make such a scandal in the congregation and don't be afraid of replicas. I can understand that your greatest fear in this National Assembly is the two minutes of replica given by MPs to the Dvora, but there are 120 of you, as many as you are, you have control over all the media. It's not like our two minutes can shake SNS so hard.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19841	Comrade Nogo, if I could give your MP group two minutes, 20, 220, 2220. Give us two minutes. Because every minute is a little less voice for you, but that's your problem and I don't want to discuss it. I also don't have to, I don't care about which MP he is from because Serbia is one electoral unit. (Srdian Nogo: You are required to hold a session. I ran the session properly, my colleague said some of his observations, talked about a colleague when he returned to Cachak. Anyone can come back, whoever was in Chačka. The word is a folk letter by Marija Janjušević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19842	I thank the chairman. I suggest a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 100. If you want to settle down with the MPs, you should sit down on the parliamentary benches. I am pleased that you have just shown how great fear it is for Bosko Obradovic to address this Parliament, and we have also been given the opportunity for SNS MPs to show it in action. So, if we've already agreed to have the right to two minutes of replica, don't worry. So you need it to make Dwri have fewer votes. Why don't you give us a replica, and you'll be pleased, because we'll get fewer votes? Don't worry about it. Our voices are our concern, and the order of this session is your concern. It's not nice that today when we talk about education, education, education, we end up in a similar way as we started. One more thing, what I'm talking about, when I want the professor to be a real example to his students, it's really not an insult. I think someone would have to go back to elementary school, learn some basic things about education. It will be easier for all of us, and Serbia's citizens will finally be able to live better, once the MPs are more educated, starting with professors, academic professors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19843	I don't see my colleague breaking Article 100. I simply don't have a business way of assigning your president to a parliamentary group of replicas. That's not guessing at the market. If I give any MP by that principle the right to reply, every next MP has the same right to ask. I didn't agree that you had the right to a replica, otherwise I would have given it to you, and I agree that some of you might have to go back to first class. It's just that whenever I say something like that, I'm gonna turn around first, and so do you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19844	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103, century 7 and 8. The lady who had previously spoken, whom I do not object to working with Goran Jesic, is well aware of, Mr Martinovic, the head of the SNS Group, as I have changed it in the water management, with the help of her party, but, Mr. Chairman, you are also obliged to respect Article 103. because what she said was not an indication of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was more replicas, and also a threat. It's about some fear, ladies have something to be afraid of, since the MP group has some strange habits. We men have no intention of being afraid, but I ask you to take up time if this parliamentary group has enough time to take away, since St. 7) and 8) is talking about when the MP abuses the violation of the Rules of Procedure, that's when the parliamentary group is taken two minutes. And finally to conclude with that fear, to express myself peasantly – if I were afraid of sparrows, I would never sow grain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19845	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19846	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. I'm suggesting a violation of article 107. My esteemed colleague Marko Parezanovic did not call any MPs, but brought facts out of the life of schools in the town of Cačka, from which he comes. And you did the right thing because you didn't give the right to a replica. What I mean is, these are two important things, both for the sake of the MPs and for the citizens of Serbia. While some are beating women here, threatening to kill someone, two important things happened today for Serbia. The first was – Aleksandar Vukic, president of the Republic of Serbia to the UN, calling on all UN member states not to accept the so-called entry. The Republic of Kosovo to UNESCO and today Ramush Haradinaj has withdrawn a request for Kosovo's admission to Interpol. It's a big victory for Serbia. That is how it is shown in the work to take care of the interests of Serbia and its citizens. As for those who scream and earn, I know they lack the time when Goran Jesic and the company managed Serbia. Here's a contract to provide media tracking services. The contract is from 2010 – "Nimedija", Klipping, Novi Sad, represented by Marija Janjusevic, MP of Dvori and the municipality of Indjija, represented by Goran Jesic. Article 5 – the client recognises the service provider's fee for services in this contract for total costs of, so I won't quote the number, the euro. So, the contract is concluded in euros between MPs Dvora and Goran Jesic, president of the municipality in front of the Democratic Party...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19847	My colleague Martinovic, what does this have to do with Article 107? Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19848	... in a country where a money asset is a dinar. We'll continue the exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19849	I thank my colleague Martinovic. You don't have the right to a replica. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19850	You are indeed, Mr. Chairman, one funny man. So, Article 108. - on the agenda of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly. Since the president of the National Assembly has left the session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia very angry and you are currently the vice president, you are responsible for the session's order. Under number one, you allow here, above all, Mr. Alexander Martinovic, the head of the SNS Group to determine how you can conduct the session, to subfling you to whom to give the word, to whom not to give the word. Simply, he can't be the head of the ruling party, i.e. its parliamentary groups to lead the session, but that is what you should do, objectively and impartially, and according to the MPs from the ranks of the government and the ranks of the opposition. On the other hand, you too, if you want to be honest and honest, then you will give one whom one of the MPs of the government calls out, an opportunity to respond, because if I were to say, for example, Alexander Haradinaj, I believe you would have the right to the replica of Aleksandar Martinovic, because I meant Alexander Vukic, president of Serbia. Will we then speak in the National Assembly and that no one from the opposition can get an opportunity to answer, even when he was called by name and last name, as I was yesterday or as he was now called through the direct address of fellow MPs from Cačka, and I am his only fellow MP who ever mentioned the situation in Chacan schools. We all know that I was the only one talking about it and that only I could be followed by that replica, but the chairman in that sense was acting crazy and not giving up that replica. That's the problem we have now, Madam Chairman, I'm glad you're back, and hopefully you'll appreciate these remarks about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because really, here's who knows which time in a row, we can't get in this whole session, we haven't got the right to reply, and we've asked for more times.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19851	Thank you. Article 104 speaks of the right to determine whether it is possible to replicate or not. That's very clear, and I can talk about the state of school in Chačka. Therefore, you have no exclusivity to speak. The fact that you're from a village in an environment doesn't give you the right to just talk about education in Chačka, and I can say something about it. So, none of that. How much do you care about the list? To Marija Janjušević. Did Maria Janjusevic speak or not to help me, Arsic? It's not. Here, you have two minutes and 50 seconds, so it doesn't happen after complaining about how I'm endangering women's rights, for example.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19852	I thank you for letting me use my rights and my time. I will just say that it was true that I was the director of the Nimedija Agency, which also provided services to the government when Alexander Vukic and the presidency when he was president Tomislav Nikolic, and he is currently working for almost the entire government of the Republic of Serbia, and that is solely because of his quality. It's true, for 12 years I've been in the private sector director of a private company I've raised. I'll leave the rest of the time to my president, I'm sure he'll be more interesting than me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19853	Dear Members, you have not used your right to speak, but your rights to a replica, and you have misused the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. So you didn't get a word and a right to a replica, and I'm taking away the time you've now abused. That's how you run the session. I'm not angry, but I'm really emotionally hurt by the speech of a letter that made me take a break, that's what I'm saying to the MP. Ljiljana Malusic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19854	Thank you, Chairman. Dear President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, today I will speak of two laws. The first is the draft law on the basis of the education and education system, the second is the proposal for a law on higher education. In fact, no one said today, and we've been talking for five, six, eight hours now, that more than 396 schools have been renovated in Serbia. Bravo for the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry. That cost about four billion dinars. All schools in the Republic of Serbia will be renovated. Second, I'm from the Vozdovac municipality, and it's here that schools aren't safe. That's just not true. I come from the municipality of Vozdovac, which has 17 elementary schools and five exits. All schools are fenced, all schools are under video surveillance, connected to the 12th Police Department, meaning complete surveillance. No more drugs in schools, no more violence. Bravo! I'm saying this because I keep respecting that there's no security. That's just not true. Perhaps in some other cities, in Belgrade, in the large municipality of Voždovac, which has 170,000 people, schools are safe.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19855	Thank you. You've wasted your time. The word has Ivan Kostic. Zoran Radojicic. Miladin Ševarlic. I don't understand. You don't want to talk? You're giving up? Thank you. Dragan Vesovic. Bosko Obradović, please. You have two minutes, so there's no confusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19856	Thank you, Chairman. I am sorry that Minister of Education Mladen Sarcevic had to leave, but I am sure he will be well replaced by a respected health minister, who I assume is also an expert on education in Serbia. But, yes, here, I'm opening up a few more topics that haven't come the right way on the agenda yet. First of all, Mr. Health Minister, answer this question - how is it possible that behind the head of a school in Zemun the entire public, complete parents and complete students of that school, and that the minister still believes that the school's head should be replaced? Is that a model of how a new law will work in the future? Is that the idea of a new law? So no matter what the parents say, no matter what the students say, no matter what the public says, no matter what the employees say, no matter what the school's collective says, it's important what the minister says. Is this the idea of a new law that the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to present here? Or, as Professor Atlagic says, what might be the idea of raising you here, as Professor Atlagic says, I don't see any education system here. Your education is Pink TV, it's reality shows, that's what you stand behind and what you defend and I guess that's what education is about in Serbia. You cannot resolve the status of believers who are the most disciplined educational workers in Serbia for six years. Well, how long do you need to be in power to solve this one small question, so that the believer is not discriminated against as an educational worker, let alone solve such a complex area as the basic education and education system. We have, not only a case of the shift of director of the National Educational Council, we have a case of a shift and a new director of the Education and Training Institute, where Mr. Zlatko Gruscanović was appointed, otherwise co-author of a single-party company that prints textbooks here, which is therefore in a direct conflict of interest. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19857	Thanks, time. Does anyone want to use the remaining time per article 96? Here you go, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19858	My patience is steely Madam Chairman, I will indeed wait for all procedures to get my word. So, we also gave you an example of the National Educational Council where you replaced the president with professional competences, set less expertise. Same situation at the Education and Training Office. One very specific question for the Minister of Health, since he is an expert on these educational topics. If there is free schooling in Serbia, why do parents pay for textbooks? So, how do teachers determine which textbooks are to be bought? Is there a country in this country? Is there a program? Is there anything that will be united throughout Serbia, not one in the province of Vojvodina, the other in other parts of Serbia? So, is there a state in Serbia or is there simply a monopoly of foreign publishers who print our textbooks here in our country, and is it normal in general for strangers to print our textbooks, write our textbooks, or is that supposed to be done by our Bookshop? Is the goal of destroying the textbooks' office so that foreigners can take over a complete monopoly on the textbook market in Serbia, and have already taken it at a very serious and high percentage. And it's a particularly important thing to end, and it's a good thing there's a health minister, because it's a subject and it's both about its area of action, and these are centralized databases, Mr. Minister. You are introducing an electronic concentration camp in Serbia. First, you centralized all data on Serbia's citizens' health security, our personal health data, and now you want to centralize data on your children and all of the parents in Serbia through electronic journals. Who gave you that right? Who did you ask from your parents to create centralised databases about our children and did you take the Croatian academic network programme and where will the centralized data on our children end up? It's a very simple question. So, who gave you the right to centralize our children's data?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19859	Thank you. I ask the speakers to conclude their debate about the law. Sasa Radulovic, since she is not authorized here. I'll read you how much you have, so there's no confusion. Fifty-seven seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19860	Thank you. Two very important laws on the basics of education, on higher education, unfortunately again after the urgent process of debate. Unfortunately, a united debate took much more time on such important laws. There's a lot of things in these laws that we think are wrong. We tried to help. We have submitted nearly 400 amendments to different parts of both laws, where we have repaired individual matters, from the director being elected by the minister's decision to be anonymous students' registers. And one important addition, education is the right of children and we have proposed that the state obtain textbooks for all children, as children of our diaspora receive textbooks in the countries where they are. This is a very, very important thing and we hope it will be accepted by the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19861	Thank you. Alexander Jerkov, one minute, fifty.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19862	Thank you. What we could all conclude during the debate is that our education system is not good. He is far from what parents responsible, honest parents expect for their children, he is far from what brave and responsible teachers expect to be and far from what children deserve. It is because of the double moral standards that you promote, because of the outdated and abundant curricula and programmes, because of the prevailing approach to children, because of the humiliating treatment of teachers, because of excessively unreasonable democratisation. You not only don't solve it, but you offer us these new laws even older, even more advanced and even more outdated solutions that are in some more developed countries that we should have seen for a long time, abandoned, in some cases decades ago. The minister takes on so much responsibility that Dositej Obradovic himself could not meet them all, he could not do them all rightly, however, it would obviously not only prevent the majority from supporting him, but also to praise the minister for taking jurisdiction from the assembly. However, the prime minister here tells us that the biggest problem of our education system is that it doesn't create workers, it's not the problem of our system not making ready workers, it's that it doesn't make ready people, and you're done, thinking, independent, free-minded and independent people obviously don't need them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19863	Anyone else want one? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19864	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully today to members of the former regime on education, education, etc. The most touching thing was when they started saying we didn't have a business. I don't know what business they left us, but obviously the economy wasn't there. Then they signed off on education and education. That's what you can tell from this date. Then in the part about education, they threw out knowledge. They just left the call. The diplomas have been priced and are now criticizing us for the diplomas they acquired while they were in power, according to their system. In fact, they've been thinking, when we've already destroyed the economy, and what we need professional professions for, and what we need to know is enough just calling. So they wrote off 400,000 jobs, they wrote off welders, welders, welders, they wrote off IMT, "The Dragon", they wrote off metals, hairdressers, merchants, etc. Everything they could, they destroyed, even a little bit more, and all the money they made even though there was an old saying that no capital lasted 100 years, but they stole for 200 or 300. For three generations, despite my claim and this can be proved in practice, that none of these capitals, and theirs is extremely suspiciously acquired from the Virgin Islands, etc. various wineries, apartments in Vienna, a four-list deteline in the suburban pasture, large buildings, etc. Everything they've acquired, I'm telling them it won't last more than 100 years. Especially because it was acquired in a very suspicious way especially because it was acquired in a very suspicious way. It is easiest to describe these laws with an old Chinese proverb – when you give a man a fish, you feed him in one day. When you teach him how to fish, you feed him for life. That's a lot of sayings, which may sound simple at first sight, but philosophically speaking about knowledge and calling. So whoever wants to teach a man how to fish, feed him for life, but he has to teach him, and that knowledge has to be applicable. Knowledge that isn't applicable is actually just calling. We looked at various of their experts, and it seemed to me like this, various PhDs, I would have all these diplomas where they object, absolutely all of them, who, without the added knowledge, were acquired 30, 40 years ago, many of them were professors at the university, many of them acquired a university degree at Soroška University in Hungary, Budapest, very suspiciously, and essentially finished high school design in duration, not perhaps four but three years. Today they're handing it over to someone else. We have a doctor, there's a health minister. We've got a doctor, and he needs to tell us how right it is, who here yesterday in front of the media were giving out diagnosis, and the doctor, the neuropsychiatrist, told someone that he had a crazy head and that he was a psychiatric case. I can say that. A lecturer, a doctor, a neuropsychiatrist can't say that. I feel sorry for that lecturer, and I feel even more sorry for the students he teaches. We have here a professor of literature who comes and says – this is what the SNS came up with orginally, and he's a professor of literature, and he complains to others about suspicious diplomas. We have a moral size, my fellow farmer, who spoke of academic honesty yesterday. Here, for years, it's unsuccessful, if that's how my colleague Rancic, we're looking for Chubra's degree, we've dug up people all over Nis, there's no diplomas, but he's giving a lecture here. Now that there are going to be various lectures, innovative, I suggest that my fellow farmer teaches vices: alcoholism, gambling, matches. It's the only knowledge since he calls and doesn't have, which he can apply. We've got the following cases, a man who, well, that chicken-whipped thing might be in the wind, like a negative education, what happens to chickens in the village of Pukovec when you're sanding them instead of vaccines, you're sanding it with dissolved yogurt just to get the money. We have an authorised representative here, I think, who came out as soon as I got up to speak, from the MP's group "They've never had enough," who, behold, sued me for the words spoken for the pay phone. Stranger yet, there's the same judge who, here's Marco knows, who took it to trial. He could teach, but they got experts like that, he's an electronician and an electrician, he's tall, he's got a little bit of work folding those wires, but he presents himself as an economist, as a top strategist, etc., he was a few months minister, and when they saw he had no idea he went untraceable, but he showed up here. In my opinion, this parliamentary group of movements was enough with Sasha Kradulovic, they could teach applied magic, balls, etc. This is where we saw their various exhibitions. This is what I'm saying about the frames where they complain about some diplomats, and they may have some calling themselves, but they have no knowledge, especially not applicable. The proverb says – it doesn't matter how many books you have, it matters how many books you read. There is another proverb that is attached to the first – it does not matter how many books you have read, but what you have learned from them. I believe they have entire libraries, but they are used to painting to show that they have a rich, luxuriously rooted library, only so that people think that they are very written, so my fellow farmer, looking for a buffet, believed it or not, stepped once even in the library upstairs. The proverb says, too -- the best investment is in knowledge. To finish, not to owe, knowledge -- tomorrow we'll be worth more than today for as much as we've learned. It needs to be taught all the time, but knowledge needs to be applied. Inapplicable knowledge, peasants to express myself, as a plough without sowing, there is no harvest. For you to know, the applicable knowledge is the wealth that your owner follows everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19865	Injury of Rules of Procedure Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19866	The Honorable Chairman, they have been injured. 106, 107 and 108. According to article 108, you're some weird scheme of circumstances... . (Alexander Martinovic: It can't, all these members were. ) Mr. Martinovic, please don't talk to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19867	Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19868	Mr. Chairman, please, article 108 says that you are some strange set of circumstances at the seat of the National Assembly and that you are taking care, not Mr. Martinovic, of the order of the session. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly give me the opportunity to point out that the previous speaker has injured the Rules of Procedure, so it has not been before.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19869	He can't make a previous speaker, only the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19870	That's the president's injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19871	Okay, here you go. What's the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19872	Because he allowed the previous speaker to hurt Article 106 and Article 107. I believe the previous speaker has a great deal of trouble to clear the agenda of the session and he doesn't know what we're talking about, but we are the other MPs and how we know.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19873	Don't please now, this isn't a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19874	So, the topic of the agenda, I believe, is that I'm surprised, since you're coming from the academic community, that you can't keep track of the law on the agenda in the field of education.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19875	Just tell me what the injury is, just say the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19876	The man talked for eight minutes, he didn't say anything about the agenda. That's the first one. Secondly, Article 107, Mr Marinkovic, shared various qualifications with MPs, MPs of opposition parliamentary groups. You were obliged to act, to preserve the dignity of the National Assembly. I know that the previous speaker is a real mirror of the ruling regime. I think it's an SNS icon, Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19877	Don't, please, he even belongs to another MP's group. So it really has nothing to do with what SNS has to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19878	But it's really fascinating, but it's a real picture. It's good for citizens to see the right picture.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19879	Wait till we don't speak out loud. I didn't notice that. The man spoke according to the subject, expressed his political creativity in his own way. Do you want the SNS to plead? Yes, thank you. The word is Secretary Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go. Excuse me, Minister, the word is Alexander Martinovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19880	I'm telling you, Mr. Marinkovic, on a violation of article 27 that you did. Article 27 obliges you to make a strategy for the application of the Rules of Procedure. I threw you out of place. I apologize for that, but I told the truth that several times they can't be advertised by the same members of the Rules of Procedure. You gave time to Mr. Nog from the Parliament Group of Dveri, practically additional time to replicate Marijana Rističević, while insulting him, disdaining our fellow MP, Marijan Rističević, by calling him a picture, or an icon of the SNS. As far as I'm concerned, I'm proud that Marijan Risticevic, my colleague in the National Assembly, represents the interests of farmers but you, Mr Marinkovic, have made a mistake in letting noise, shit, noise and threat respond by violating the Rules of Procedure. I understand that some of those bananas fell hard on their stomachs on Saturday, so they don't know what they're saying and they don't know what they're doing, but if they think they're gonna beat us like they beat up two journalists, Pinka, or like they did last year, a RIK member in front of the SNS, they're wrong. We're not afraid of bastards like this. We're absolutely not scared. They can get from a place they want, a time of black shirts, a time of Munich's brewery has passed. Serbia is a democratic country, a free country, in which everyone can express their opinion, but there is no right to insult anyone, and in particular there is no right to beat anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19881	Thank you. Of course, I wouldn't agree with you. (Alexander Martinovic: I do not ask to be voted. All right, thanks. Just in accordance with Article 27, as chairman, I am in charge of this session. The word has the People's MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go, Professor, finish up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19882	The minister called, so I'll finish up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19883	Go ahead, the minister will tell you what he's got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19884	Dear colleagues and colleagues, at the end of this search, I can express my satisfaction in the way he was led and almost to the entire atmosphere. Except for some small jumps, it's quite well done. The education system in Serbia is not since yesterday, it has deep roots. Regarding this fact, I will remind you, the Faculty of Teachers in Sombor, who is a legal follower of previous schools that were engaged in a system of education, celebrates 250 years next year. It should be our honor, to be proud, because it is one of the oldest educational institutions in this part of Europe. Will these two laws make any changes to our education system? Probably will. There have been a variety of objections here. Here, I'm going to start with one, where one of our colleagues said -- in the last 100 years, schools in Serbia haven't changed, as they were 100 years ago, they are today. You all know that's not true. She mentioned an exhibition here, where we all saw pictures of these students really traveling long to their schools, who are the only students in those schools. All of us, I don't think anyone past those videos has gone through without getting a little nausea when they see these kids struggling. Here, I admit there are examples like this today. I spoke with the minister and his team, and I believe that a colleague who is assistant minister of primary education will come to me in Black Trevo to visit these villages in the municipality of Black Treva, to see what it's like there. Most of these schools don't have any students. Most of these places don't have a population, and that's our biggest problem. We need to work together through a system of education and education, by raising economic activities, to try to bring those places back to life, because each part is part of Serbia. Serbia is not only Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and these larger cities, Cachak, etc., so I don't mind someone. So we have to be quite wise in these times, especially those who are so attached to this capitalism, liberal capitalism, etc. The tendency in this system is that education is not very accessible to everyone. That social system doesn't like very educated and smart people. They set up their doctrine on the fact that less educated people have fewer requirements, that they are willing to work for less compensation and really use education as one of the ways to exploit residents. Serbia must be wise here, to create, normally gradually, cannot overnight, a strong economy and a strong education system. There have been some remarks here, let's say one of the remarks I can't agree with – someone's the director of the EPS, and he owns the roasters. What difference does it make? Well, he could own a movie. (Bosko Obradovic: Does he have a degree? I didn't go into your word. I'm not in charge, and you're not likely to judge whether there is or not. Most likely someone saw that a man had a degree and was placed there because he had qualifications and expertise, and that's how he should be in all areas. Why is there a big objection in the way the director is elected? I said it yesterday, but I have to say it today. You have to understand that whoever's the founder, who's putting money into something, must have some kind of management rights. We can't ask the state to start high schools, high schools, and let someone have that money and create whatever kind of politics they want in those organizations. The choice of directors as he is now will be the same when you come to power. If you don't like it, change it, people, there's no problem. (Bosko Obradovic: Well done! And when we get there, you change... When you come, thank God. Here, when my colleague calls me, let me say something to him. Those who are obsessed with the SNS and Alexander Vukic and have this pain, let them see that in the eighth century in Damascus, Jovan Damaskin solved his suffering. He's got an icon of the Mother of the Trinity, and you get a picture of Alexander Vukic, put it in your party or home, pray and maybe it'll help you get rid of that pain. I don't mind when you make arguments for something you're saying. I understand both political struggle and barbecue, etc. But try never to speak unargumented. They were thieves, these criminals, they did this, they did it. I come from my own example – I don't like to attack anyone without proof and I recommend it to you. Then neither the Serbian Progressive Party nor Aleksandar Vucic will be trouble, Lipkovski and the replacement of certain other people from certain functions. We chose this Lipkovsky here in the Assembly. We have the right to choose him, and you're angry with us to replace him. It's perfectly normal. Here, he was elected on the proposal by Marijan Risticevic and then you see that this Marijan Risticevic is not all-powerful, that he doesn't know everything well, he has mistakes too. There, it is one of his mistakes, and there is also support from counterpart Marko Atlagic. It means you two are sinful, too. In the end, as I suggested yesterday, all together, common forces, any position of any opposition, we have to fight to create a highly developed and quality education system. This is also my proposal for colleagues from the Ministry, that the future and names of these laws should be – laws on the education system. Let's not separate education and education. And lastly, I have only one message for all of us, Serbian citizens, parents, students, preschoolers, students, on one hand and teachers, teachers, teachers and all those working in that education system, remember the verse from the famous song of the Serbian poet – the professor is not alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19885	Thank you, Professor. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19886	I'm just going to brief on a few things that have to do with health care, and that's a centralized database that's been talked about a lot. We just have to make a decision - whether we want to move forward or not. If we want to move forward, it's the basis to get anywhere, to improve both education and health care and everything we want to improve and that we agree on should change. There are procedures to be followed and no leaks or any of the data can go when all these procedures are respected. But, I'm saying, you just have to decide whether you want to move forward or not. Without this, it's impossible. You know that very well. It's all about choice. The second thing, Minister Sarcevic has already spoken and mentioned this strike in Zemun. I wouldn't get into that. I want to appeal to everyone, and to you here, to all take a common position. Everything can happen, that someone has an opinion of this or that, but it can't happen that kids don't go to school. This is what I'm talking about as a parent. So we should all appeal to everyone. There are all the conditions for children to go to school and get rid of everything else they need. This is child abuse. It's a school year. How are they going to make up for it later? It's not fair to children and it doesn't need to be broken over them. The conditions are met, the children go to school, and everything they need to be further resolved by their time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-21-0.u19887	Thank you, Minister. I want to thank all my fellow Members of the People for their discussions. I am concluding a joint principled search on the motions of the law in points. The 1st and 2nd agendas. We'll continue work 25 on Monday, 10:00 p.m. Thanks again. [[The session was suspended at 6:10 p.m.]]
