ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-15-0.u17265	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, honored Excellency, I am opening the eighth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. As you know, I have called this special session to address the National Assembly of Njeg's Excellency, Mr Norbert Lamert, president of the German Bundestag. It is my honor to welcome Mr Norbert Lamert's Excellency, on behalf of the National Assembly and on behalf of myself. In addition, I welcome the MPs of Bundestage Mr. Stefan Albania and Friedrich Ostendorf, as well as the other members of the delegation. It is also an honor to welcome the members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as representatives of the diplomatic crust in the Republic of Serbia. I now ask His Excellency, Mr Norbert Lamert, to address us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-15-0.u17266	Dear Madam President of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues of the National Assembly, Excellency, dear guests, I would like to warmly thank you for the kind invitation and on behalf of my colleagues from the German Bundestag and for the special privilege that today I have the honor to have in some internal, but since it is publicly transmitted and in public dialogue, I am considering mutual intentions to create our future in Europe. Our visit here in Belgrade is an expression of our interest in your country, its history, its culture. What we are interested in is, above all, the latest developments, including the perspective that will develop from this for the foreseeable future and which depends not only but to a large extent on this Parliament, on the National Assembly. In all the conversations we've had during yesterday and today, in different formats, we've always come up with two remarks. Under number one, all the speakers have confirmed how good bilateral relations between Germany and Serbia are. Secondly, all have made it clear more or less unequivocally that Germany is expected to play a special role in the further process in Europe, but also in a special relationship between Europe, i.e. the EU and Serbia. It's new to each other, and it's not something that's self-conceived. Neither German-Serbian relations have always been close and friendly, nor have they always been considered particularly constructive. It can therefore be noted that there has been a change over the previous years, and this is an important interim result for me, not only of these visits, but of these visits, that changes are possible and will be and are necessary in the future if we want to achieve a goal that is increasingly clear and especially now during the opening speech of your newly elected president of the country, therefore, a strategic commitment of Serbia to Europe with a view to the EU. I want to, if you allow me to tell you something and make my views about not so simple, but very important experiences of Germany from the past. These experiences also include the conclusion that democracy is not possible without stability, but stability without democracy is also not possible. So one is a prerequisite for another. When the president of the assembly pointed out to me yesterday that I was the first President of the Bundestag to visit Belgrade, I replied, I suppose, before me, if anything else, he was visiting the president of the National Assembly of the NDR. The parliament has ceased to exist, the whole country no longer exists, because the alleged parliament was not an expression of the sovereign will of the people, but an instrument for the mentoring of a nation, the tutelage of a nation. So, the extended hand of a party, not what parliament actually has to do, should be in vital democracy. So the expression of different attitudes, beliefs, and convictions that should be expressed in modern society and that exist in that society. Now you all know, ladies and gentlemen, Germany is not a source of democracy. We didn't make it up, and we needed more attempts until what everyone thought was a particularly stable parliamentary democracy in Germany. For this reason, I often point to the fact, anyway, and in Germany, the first attempt to establish democracy in Germany, almost 100 years ago, suffered a collapse after 13 years, so-called. Wajmar democracy, after World War I and with one constitution that would be significant on paper, has not even experienced adulthood. Among historians today, the undisputed, among the many reasons that led to the collapse of German democracy, the first German democracy, the most important individual reason was the lack of advocacy of the Democrats. The first German democracy failed because there were too many opponents and too few supporters of democracy and that those who fought for that democracy, who were responsible, both in the government and in parliament, considered each other a rivalry more important than the common responsibility of all Democrats. Of this inexorable and lasting rivalry and inability to make consensus, the rejection of the necessary compromises, which is why the first German democracy collapsed. You all know that as a result of this German democracy's collapse on German soil, it would have terrible consequences, not only for Germany, but for the whole of Europe, because what followed after the collapse of democracy simply ruined and destroyed Germany and the entire European continent. I think that without exaggeration, it can be claimed that the traumatic experience of the German democracy's collapse and the memory of the terrible and terrible consequences of this collapse were carved into the genetic code of our country. The experience of dictatorship and perception of the terrible historical guilt we feel for our European neighbours has raised a new understanding of democracy and the Constitution and constitutional order and a new understanding and a different understanding of the necessary treatment among democracy, of the necessary balance between consensus and compromise, between compromise and conflict, between interest and conviction. Today I want to advocate, as I do in all parliaments, compromises are a necessary condition for the functioning of a democratic system and that is the way to understand them, and not only understand but also apply them. That and how I know, it's easier to formulate it than to make it happen in practice. We are all convinced of what we think is right and of course it does increase the reputation when someone really thinks and postulates, only in this way can we, however, if one country should be represented in all its institutions and if we all want to have the impression that it is not about individual attitudes that exceed the balance and that the greater number of demands a common path, then it requires, simple sustainability in political decisions and increases that sustainability in political decisions. We have, as you know, in Germany on the basis of German unity and decisions of the first and only, in the free elections of the elected National Assembly of the NDR, expanded the territory over which the constitutional law applies and unlike other European countries and neighbours, we have the experience of transition and we have the experience of transition from the authoritarian system to the democratic system and if everyone has to have and to acquire their own experiences, we are very happy to pass on what is to be passed on to that experience in the light of our experience and participate in processes in other countries. I want to point out once again today that we cannot often let the public know that what makes democracy a democracy is not the existence of a government, but the existence of a parliament. There's always been a government since when mankind exists and there's a government. Parliament is a relatively new phenomenon of history and the fact that there is a government is not some reason, or some difference between two systems. But is there a parliament, and is there someone who represents his views, not only to appoint a government, but also to oversee the government? It's something that one system makes a democratic system. I want to add that you can't recognize democracy on the fact that there are majority. That is true, but a relatively banal fact. You can recognise democracy by the fact that most people cannot decide whether there are minority rights, but because minorities have their uncut rights, which are not at the disposition of the majority, and it must be expressed in parliament – how in a society there can be a growing understanding that minority rights are uncut rights if this is not practiced in parliament. Thirdly, of course, parliament only makes sense when, besides the parties in the government, there are also those in the opposition, and when the opposition also has its views and interests. For this reason, I want to express my express respect for the development that can be seen in this country for several years. I cannot understand what you said, or I would refer to it, I apologize, but I want to link it to the encouragement that what is considered absolutely necessary, namely, to continue the reform path and to bear in mind that this country not only needs to implement economic reforms, but also clearly political reforms. If I understand the speech of the new state president well, to announce dialogue on constitutional issues, then I imagine that the most important place for such a dialogue is this Parliament, where we can normally conduct such a debate, where and how the Constitution needs to be changed, in the interests of the country's development in general, and especially with a view to EU accession. For five years Serbia has had candidate status, and I have just had the opportunity to talk to members of the Friendship Group, the German-Serbian group of friendships, on this topic. For five years, it took 14 years for Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic and other Member States to become EU Member States after the transition from the authoritarian communist systems in Central and Eastern Europe, and that EU membership is not automated but rather a decision on the membership of a community of countries that practically shares common beliefs on democratic principles that cannot be negotiated and which also characterises a common willingness to work together more and more tasks. Cannot judge at all what level this task setting is at. At the end of the line, it is no less than preparedness to give up certain parts of sovereignty that we could keep to ourselves, but that in the community of states we share with others in the belief that this way we will have a greater impact on history and on events in the period of globalisation. Negotiations with an EU member state that no longer wants to be started these days. I personally think that, historically speaking, it is a wrong decision, but it is something that is a community of states, that no one is forced to approach it, and no one is forced to stay if they believe that they will develop better outside the community than they will, but this current example explains to us that we are not talking about membership here in a tennis club or golf club, we are talking about membership in a common country with high mutual expectations and demands, and we need to know if we really want to get in and get into it. We have taken with interest and sympathy the knowledge that Serbia has defined itself for this strategic option and has declared it. Since we are interested in the development of this region as part of Europe and we must have such an interest and we have proven that we have it. We are not only open to this strategic position, but we are very fond of that attitude and cannot be overlooked that in recent years, Germany has not only been Serbia's most important trading partner, but also the most important donor in society development in the various segments of society, which confirms our interest both in this country and in this region. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have a clear idea that I cannot present in detail now, nor do I want historians to observe earlier in Europe at the beginning of the 21st century, how it will all describe it. In any case, we live in from the foundation of a changed world, in which Europe is no longer a natural center of events in the world. In this context, and as there is a convincing assumption that in such a changed world of our own interests, we can first successfully achieve them together, not individually, not everyone for ourselves, and not everyone against each other, each against their neighbor. We are all Europeans, on this side and on the other side of the European Union. We all have a free decision to participate in this big European project or simply give up on it, but we need to be aware that Europe is not just a big promise. Europe is also a major mutual commitment. Only with those obligations that we willingly enter into can we fulfill this great promise. In this we Germans want to continue to participate, we want to make a contribution that we can and call on all those who want to participate. I thank you most warmly for this rare opportunity to have the opportunity in this room to present to you what I have exhibited and look forward to working together between our two parliaments in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-15-0.u17267	I thank His Excellency for his address. I am concluding the Eighth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly.
