ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20338	Good afternoon, today is Tuesday, to remind the president, and today questions are being asked. I have a few questions, which have been repeated, because the questions I've already asked have been answered by no one. Probably because the president or ministers are ashamed to give answers, or they don't know how to answer. Either way, it's not good either. I asked the first question, a while ago, the foreign minister, and now I'm asking the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary and the Foreign Minister again, which is - what are the effects of the sanctions imposed by Serbia five or six months ago, when France refused to deliver Haradinaj on Interpol's warrant issued by Serbia? To remind the Serbian public that it was then that Serbia asked its officials not to visit France for three months and to apply other measures, to withdraw the ambassador to consultations, etc., etc. After three months, it happened that Serbian government MPs and ruling Serbian parties in the Kosovo parliament supported the same Haradinaj to elect the president of the so-called government. Kosovo. I ask, "What has changed?" First, what are the effects of our sanctions on France, did it bring any great benefits to our country? Secondly, if not, why this big change in our policy towards Haradinaj? Are there any historical interests of Serbia, if they are – which, perhaps, is the pressure of a foreign factor, if it is – who, or is it about what is probably true – money, that someone paid for a new friendship? Several times over the last few years, I've been repeating the question, and now it was updated a few months ago with a change of authorised persons and a change in the current account of a known company called "Asamakum". I asked the finance minister at the time, and now I ask the Minister of Economy and the Minister of the Interior – who owns the company "Asamakum"? As we know, the Serbian public is aware that the company had major tax fraud, that there was everything there, that some people were arrested, detained, that some charges were filed, that the company allegedly had nothing to do with the brother of one of Serbia's top officials, but today we don't know who the owners are? That, of course, is not a secret, since in the APR it can be seen, for all Serbian firms, except for this one. This company in the APR says that it doesn't have owners, or that they own cartoons, you have cartoons, and I'd like someone to translate what those cartoons mean to me. The third question is about something that happened yesterday in Paracina, which is that 230 people lost their jobs. They worked at the Serbian glass factory in Paracino, which he privatised three years ago, according to what it says in the Interpol warrant initiated by Bulgaria, a criminal named Cvetan Vasilev, who is a great friend of the former Serbian president, the current Serbian president, many Serbian politicians, many members of the ruling party in Serbia. I have warned several times that it is a disgrace for Serbia and that it is a disrespect for the international obligation not to deliver someone on Interpol's warrant. With full right we asked for Haradinaj to be delivered to Serbia, what did not happen was the shame of the state of France, but also our relationship with this case is a disgrace to the state of Serbia, that is, those people who run this country. That's why I ask the interior minister, foreign minister, justice minister, economy minister and finance minister -- what's going on with the Serbian glass factory? Why is it allowed for a Bulgarian company to buy the company three and a half years ago, it is a Glass Industries company, not to pay the price agreed with the Privatisation Agency, without being registered? After that, the company is making losses of 120m euros. After that, it changes the owners five times, hiding behind, according to news from police authorities, Svetozar and Peter Montenegro, Milorad Mica Pusica, Dusan Adamovic, Verice Matkovic. The second and third are senior SNS officials. This last one seems to me to be an SPS.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20339	Thanks, time. The word has the People's Messenger Fatmir Hasani. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20340	Thank you. Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Article 86(6) The Law on Local Self-Government found that the government is making a special decision on the appointment of the president and members of the provisional body, taking into account the political and ethnic composition of the disbanded assembly of local self-government units. In the case of Presevo municipality, where the government has decided to disband the assembly, because no session has been held for more than three months, this legal norm is not respected. Namely, after last year's elections, the Presevo Assembly had the following composition: the Democratic Party of Albanians 14 MPs, the Alternative for Changes of 11 committees, the Party for Democratic Action 10 committees, the Democratic Union of the Valley of Two Councilors and one committee of the Democratic Union of Albanians. However, in the government's decision on the provisional body, the president and one member of the interim body have contributed to an Alternative for Changes, which has 11 committees of 38 council members, as many as the Assembly has, which is 28.9%. Then, one member of this body is from SNS who do not have committees in disbanding the Assembly, and only the remaining two members of the provisional body belonged to all other political parties representing Albanians Presevo who had 27 committees in disbanding the Assembly, which means 71.1%. It is obvious here that the marginalised absolute majority of Presevo voters, and that only one party to the Alternative for Change, led by Scipri Murphy, was given a huge monopoly. It is also important that the president of the provisional body is not named so far president of the Presevo municipality Ardita Sinani in the context of previous practices applied in other municipalities of Serbia. Since this government decision has caused enormous dissatisfaction in Presevo, I am asking the government - what were the political motives for not respecting the legal norm and practice in Serbia so far? The second question is asked by the president of the National Assembly – will it comply with the legal standards when the temporary elections are scheduled in the Presevo municipality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20341	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20342	I have three questions. The first question concerns the Ministry of Education, i.e. Minister Sarcevic, although we will be able to talk to him when they are amended, but this is an official question and appeal at the same time, and on the occasion of the events at Svetozar Miletic school in Zemun, where parents and employees are almost a month on strike, children do not attend classes, the crisis is large and simply asking the minister and I appeal to him and the public – are the problems identified at that school, so large that it is necessary to push them to the end? It's about a school that, I remind and emphasize because of the public and those who look at us, has extraordinary results, has received the highest grade on the external evaluation. So, a school that serves as a role model in every way. Is it something he did wrong, with or without quotes, that the current director of that school is so great that he deserves such a chic employee and parents and children? A team before, honestly, I'm just critical of how much support that school and the director got, and it's spontaneous support, a little bit like, not to say neither from the government nor from the opposition, without some organized transportation or some broad organization can collect. So, for this reason, I would once again invite the minister to move over some vanity, some interest, or I don't know which boss, and see if there's a way to solve this problem, not to put up with students, teachers and employees, where there's no use in it, unless it's demonstrated by forces and unless it's understood as an exercise for all those who intend to protest across Serbia. My second question concerns the MUP, Minister Stefanovic and concerns these vehicle purchases for the ministry's needs, 710 vehicles, and reportedly needs to be 1,500. It's a big purchase for our terms. Vehicles were taken from a private company in Cacko. Again, of course, the owner of the company is in close relations, which he does not hide, with the current ruling party. That's not the point. My question, not only for the MUP, but also for other state authorities -- why not use it, maybe there's some reason I don't know, why don't you take the Fiat vehicles? Our president, then the prime minister persuaded Vladimir Putin, urged him, our government on several occasions, to take vehicles from the "Fiyat", or from Kragujevac. He said it was done in Serbia, that it was a Serbian car. Why don't our bodies, why our institutions, why don't our governments use it then and take that car that we're trying to place Putin and the Russians, and we don't drive it ourselves? That's a bad example. If it is indeed a domestic car, and the state of Serbia is the owner, or one large owner, not a majority but a significant part of the owner of the factory in Kragujevac, then why is it not possible to help the factory itself, which is supposed to be ours, i.e. Not allegedly, but it is, and at the same time, a message is being sent to everyone to whom we place that car or do we want to place it as a domestic Serbian product? The final question goes to the address of the Headship, or the President of the Assembly and the Headship of the Assembly. He can answer in public, and he can answer in writing. Since the beginning of this one calls out how much notice, how many penalties are sent to the MPs, so let's look at each other together, some colleagues say little, but no matter how many representatives of the authorities and the opposition are among them, so that we can really see if there is an atmosphere of tolerance and co-operation and whether such asymmetry can work as much under normal circumstances. Let us not be surprised when those who are obviously chiced or disabled in this relationship also use other extraparliamentary means. Don't let it surprise you. This is an appeal so that we can continue to work and restore dignity to this home in the way that we and citizens need it, because media and parliament are the most important instruments of dialogue and democracy in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20343	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20344	Thank you, Chairman. First, I would like to point out to you and the President of the Assembly, who is in charge of taking care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, that the questions we ask do not have an answer or arrive much later than 15 days are prescribed. I would really ask the President of Parliament to try to answer the questions that are being raised this way sooner. I asked at the end of June a question about the state of the remont in the public company EPS. I got an answer a month later that sounded like a pretty fairy tale, that everything was going to be okay. However, the facts differ, that the situation in Serbia's Elektroprivred today is worrying, and that is why we, as a parliamentary group, have asked to organise in accordance with Article 209. A special session to ask questions on the topic at hand, and I expect that we will finally get one session in this conference on the current subject as the Rules of Procedure provides, and a number of parliamentary groups have asked many topics in the previous year and a half in this conference to be considered and we have never been in a position. On the other hand, the obligation once a month to ask questions to the government, on the last Thursday of the month, is avoided by the tenorous appointment of assembly sessions. So it is obvious that this Thursday, in two days' time, the Assembly will not work and we will not be able to ask the Prime Ministers and ministers the question for the third time since their election. I urge the Presidency of Parliament to change something and respect the Rules of Procedure. I would like to ask the Prime Minister and Parliament President today whether they have been notified by the Director of the Republic Statistics Office, Mr Kovacevic, that the methodology for determining the unemployment/employment rate has been changed in 2015 and 2016? Why am I asking this question? In a region conducted between Mr Arsic, who wrote one text where he scientifically refutes the possibility that the unemployment rate has been reduced from 26% to 11.12%, as far as we hear from the President of the Republic, Prime Minister, of all ministers, Mr Kovacevic replied that the methodology that determines the unemployment rate has changed in 2015/16 years and that, therefore, data from the previous data period are now incomparable. The man says that's what the Republic Statistics Institute has informed the public about. I wonder how he informed the public? Did they hang on the Institute’s advertising board that statistics were changed in 2015 and 2016 and that these data could not be compared? Or was a notice sent, say, even in the government? That government members are not mistaken when they think the government's economic policy has led to Serbia's unemployment being halved. It is simply not true, and citizens know and feel about their skin the disastrous consequences of the government's economic policy, which did not reduce unemployment. We can only talk about the reduction of the number of unemployed, because a large number of people, unfortunately, have moved out of Serbia, because they could not find a job in Serbia. But this economic policy has led to Serbia today being the country with the largest number of poor people in Europe, 12%, with the highest poverty threat rate, almost 30%. I believe that the ministers and MPs may have been mistaken and believe that the unemployment rate has indeed been reduced from 26% to 12%, and they do not know that the methodology has changed. I ask you to get that notice, not to be mistaken, to make decisions here based on sound facts. In this way, we will lead to further poverty through continued economic policy, further poverty for Serbian citizens, and further emigration of young talented people from Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20345	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20346	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have two questions. The first question is to the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, why is it so late with the decision to grant diplomatic status to members of staff of the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis? It's really already become scandalous. The decision must be made urgently, and I personally fear that it will not be able to reach the delivery of Russian weapons, promised, agreed to Serbia, unless the status is granted. We can't play with Russia. She's showering us with friendship, we have to fight back at those points where maybe it's for foreign policy and the most sensitive. The diplomatic status must be allocated urgently. I've already asked that question a long time ago, I'm not answered. The second question is the question of the foreign minister and the minister of justice – why has the Serbian government observed the mounted process of Dragan Vasiljjevic in front of the Croatian court in Split so far? Today it is expected in half two sentences of the first degree sentence. I closely followed the process, as closely as could be traced through Croatian media, and I concluded that the Croatian court absolutely has no evidence against Dragan Vasiljkovic, called Captain Dragan, absolutely no evidence. If a liberating verdict is not passed today, I demand that the Serbian ambassador from Zagreb be called immediately and that the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic cancel his scheduled visit to Zagreb, which is scheduled for November. So, to absolutely sharpen our relations with Croatia if Captain Dragan is not released today. Come on, somehow we can also boil the verdict that would cover this year that he has already done, but if he is detained in Croatian prison today, then without a pardon, we must perform as a state to protect our national interests, protect our citizen and simply oppose the Ustasha will that garners from Zagreb, Croatia and which is seen and in the processes of all the other Serbs whom the Croats are judging for falsified guilt. First, they are put to sleep in a declaration that none of the Serbs will be prosecuted for participation, as they say in the armed rebellion, then as soon as a Serb returns to fuller power, as soon as someone who could survive there in the Serbian country is returned, they immediately arrest him and make him known to others, that they are not wanted in the occupied territory of Republika Srpska. They only accept old people who are near the end of their lives and who can no longer pose political or any other danger to the Ustasha regime. Ladies and gentlemen, by the way, Serbia has been constantly giving in to its relations with Croatia. We need to make it clear we will not accept international arbitration over 10,000 hectares of the country from the left coast of the Danube, which the Croats are looking for in the old Austrian-Hungarian Catastrian books, because the border must be on the Danube queen. Secondly, you have seen the three most important Croatian political parties agree to ask Serbia for 40 billion euros in war damages. So everything that makes today's Croatian political scene is behind that requirement, and our press has revealed it. Let me tell you, I am truly pleased with the news, because that is why we no longer join the EU. What will we do in the EU when all Serbian enemies are concentrated there? Therefore, sharpening the full diplomatic relations with Croatia, with the possible today's condemnation of Dragan Vasiljkovic being a cause for the move.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20347	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20348	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I would like to ask the health ministry a question, specifically because I come from a municipality that has a very large area, a small number of people, a demographic threat, and such municipalities in Serbia, in southeast Serbia, have a lot. The question is whether, in the next period, when the Health Act is changed, it will be possible for local self-governments such as the Municipality of Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Rajaj, Babusnica and such municipalities to have the opportunity to have emergency assistance, i.e. to have people who can work in emergency care, precisely because a large number of our people are old. In particular, the Municipality of Svrljig is going through a very frequent road, it is a highway, where a number of accidents took place a few days back, where people, workers in a health home within their jurisdiction, were going out in the field, but because of the lack of staff they could not give the best attention to the team that had such traffic accidents. I wanted to ask a question, I expect that in the coming period we will have the opportunity and that Batut will have the opportunity to change things, not to be 20,000 people for the intern, not to be 25,000 people for home care and such things, but to look at it towards territory, towards the surface, towards road infrastructure, so that such municipalities can be able to employ more doctors, more nurses, more drivers, that they can help anyone who needs it. I think every one of us has human health first. That's why I know it's a job problem, but we have to make it possible for such municipalities. We end up on the road to the Old Mountain these days in Srlig. It's a big deal for all of us, I'd like to thank the previous prime minister, and the current president of Serbia, who was walking along with me, and the man who supported this trip to the Old Mountain, finally, that we can get a lot more people to come across Srlig and go to the Old Mountain to see it, to rest a little bit. But because of the problem with the insufficient number of personnel, the doctor, the nurse, the driver, we have to provide it in such a way as to give attention to all those who are going through Srlig and going towards the Old Mountain or anywhere else when an accident happens, that they can save these people's lives. One more thing that is very important, and this can be a question directed to the Ministry of Health, is it possible for the House of Health in Nis that covers the city of Nis and the environment, whether it can give emergency assistance and services to us in Srlig and thus resolve the problem of emergency care and emergency medicine, because a really large number of accidents are happening, the elderly population of people and emergency care is necessary for municipalities such as Svrlig, such as municipalities in southern Serbia in general. One more thing about that, it's a big problem that demographic map. That's why we need to have a higher number of doctors, nurses on the ground and preventative and provide basic conditions for these people to at least provide normal age. And one more thing about that, I would say, because I think that really a lot of things change for the good, the laws that we're making right now, and the laws are quite appropriate to this situation as it is, and I think we should get into the process and change of the law as soon as possible, which is the issue of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Law on the giving of the morning and the pasture of villages to use. The law was passed in the 1990s and gave the law the possibility that rural meat communities, which have free spaces, fines and pastures, could be used for the purposes of livestock farming. We are witnessing that because of the great outflow of people, the ageing population of people, we have to change that law because we have to give you the opportunity to get your ass kicked and your pastures into action so that you can build a farm and build objects and, in the end of the day, we hire people there. We have the Law on Co-operation that's changed, we have a large number of young people who want to deal with cooperatives, but we don't have enough pastures, fields that can function. That's why we should finally change this law. It's a law that's in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, but we all want to work on it together. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20349	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20350	First question for Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. It has been my duty to answer this question since the session when it was elected as Prime Minister. Is Nenad Kovač, called Nasha Roming, a person who asked for a racket from the company "Continental Vinc" when you were the director of the same company? In public, you have rightly testified that it was not Nikola Petrovic's godfather, Nenad Kovac, but is that Nenad Kovac's face? Nenad Kovac, I will remind you, is one of the main money launderers of the Darko Saric clan, the godfather of Nikola Petrovic, who is the first godfather of Serbia, because he is the double godfather of Aleksandar Vukic. Second question, did you introduce your brother Igor to Nenad Kovac, Nikola Petrovic and Slavish Kohez and bring them together to work together? Third question for Alexander Vucic, but as co-ordinator of the security service of Bratislava Gasic, Director of BIA, please provide us with a report on the security check by Ana Brnabic when she took office, who is the person who signed the report, and if the report has been reported orally by the person who announced the report orally and to whom has the report been reported? Also, a question for the minister in charge of telecommunications affairs, this is Mr. Rasim Ljajic and Director Telecoma. Please provide us with all contracts, traffic data and commission data between Telecom and all companies dealing with electronic mobile phone supplements from 2004 to today. That's what I'm looking for, means contracts, traffic data and commissions between Telecom and the next Roming Electronics companies and related legal entities, there are about 50 of them, then "Technomania", "Prointer", "Altia" and "Vin Vina", and are these jobs completed in public tenders or in urgent procurement? I also ask the "Telecom" question how much they donated, through various systems, Busplus and the GSP city enterprise in Belgrade, and for the promotion of the Busplus system. I'm also interested in the answer from the Minister of Culture and Information, whether anything of its jurisdiction can be done against these realitys, but not only reality on television but also reality in the printed media. Namely, we have a case of a single murder that has been committed in the last 500 and a few days every day on the front pages of the newspaper, hundreds and thousands of newspaper titles and newspapers dedicated to the murder of Jelena Marjanovic. So much together they didn't get a case of the death of Patriarch Paul, or the murder of Zoran Djindjic, or all the other murders, I believe if you put on one side of their front page, and on the other side of this murder, it would weigh here. Who is it anyway, what's the reason one such murder deserves so many headlines? The only logical answer would be that someone really is very powerful in some way connected, personally Alexander Vukic or perhaps Ivica Dacic that they are connected in some way to this case. Speaking of murder cases, what about the people who did a responsible job for the state and left behind the state. So I'm asking for reports of death and autopsy to be delivered, let's say the Foreign Minister, he's in charge of that question, of the death of Ambassador More difficult because it's really one of the strangest car accidents, that a man dies in a car accident, and that he has seven bullets in his body, so I'd like that case to be delivered to me, to see the autopsy results from Mr. Poelica and what the ministry has done to that effect. Also, in response to that kidnapping case in Libya. What happened to the $120 million in the car when the officers of our embassy in Libya were kidnapped? Who's to blame for the upside down business with the arms trade? Who has left behind people who have been responsible for doing work for this country, because it is not disputed that the state is trading weapons, but it is controversial when someone makes a mistake and leaves two officials, later and this said ambassador, to the mercy and mercy that they bear these consequences. She's a poor country that doesn't stand behind its own people. The state has to protect its people and someone in that chain of responsibility has to answer. Also, what happened to the question of President Alexander Vukic, to remind us of a military conversation with McCain, when he said he gave the location where the kidnapped Serbian Embassy officers in Libya were then reportedly killed in the bombing. I'll remind you that Mr. McCain said he got the information on another location. Let's see the autopsy report on how those official embassies in Libya died? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20351	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20352	Thank you. I request a notice and request all documentation from the following institutions: the First Basic Public Prosecutor's Office, the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and the Anti-Corruption Agency, as the institutions involved in the criminal report and the report against Minister Alexander Vulin, who was submitted by the Anti-Corruption Agency. In 2015, the Anti-Corruption Agency made a report and filed a criminal report, doubting that there are crimes of abuse of official position, bribery and unknown origin of the money needed to purchase the apartment of Minister Alexander Vulin in 2012. The organised crime prosecutor's office conducted the procedure and notified only that, despite the emergency, the police refused to check the reports submitted by the Anti-Corruption Agency and which had to be checked in the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime. Then, the criminal report was sent to the First Basic Public Prosecutor's Office, which ended the process, with an explanation that it was checking whether the minister had reported the apartment to possess it, which it did, and that is the only oral information why a criminal report was rejected. So, I ask the First General Public Prosecutor's Office to explain the rejection of criminal charges and the termination of proceedings under the Anti-Corruption Agency's report; the Prosecutor's Office for Organised Crime; and according to the allegations received by the Anti-Corruption Agency and the Anti-Corruption Agency, the report sent to them by the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, noting that I am all the text of this oral request, both for notification and for documentation, that all three institutions are informing and asking for a statement to be signed on the handling and handling of personal data and sensitive data, and in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. I would like to remind you that the 15-day deadline for the delivery of this file is something that the D.A.'s Office of Organized Crime and the First General Public Prosecutor's Office and the Anti-Corruption Agency are obliged to do. I would also like to ask the police minister on the basis of which police may refuse the prosecution of organised crime to investigate warrants, but she said so. I don't think we should be dealing with ads, nor should we just let journalists take care of the rule of law, but we should earn the wages that citizens pay us to defend the rule of law. That's why I'm asking for documentation from these three institutions and why I'm asking them not to even try to give me an answer that it's personal data and particularly sensitive data because I'm going to, I repeat, sign a statement to handle that data in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20353	Thank you. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20354	I'd like to ask you a few questions. The first question is for the Minister of Education, who is here in the Assembly these days, but has already repeatedly refused to explicitly say what is actually happening at Svetozar Miletic Elementary School in Zemun. Yesterday we learned in public some information about why the school's director was actually appointed. As you know, to let the public know, there's been protests from the parents of that school for a few weeks now about the appointment of a director at that school. The minister informed us that he had been replaced because the educational inspection had found several irregularities in his work. Here's to reading and asking the minister if it's possible that these are really irregularities that could get someone removed. He says - the inspection found that a geography teacher taught geography, and he had a degree in geography. Then he says, they found that the school board's record was run by a school secretary, not a parent, and that one teacher had twice extended the contract for a certain time because he was changing his coworker for pregnancy. You know what, this way any director can be replaced with anything, if these are valid reasons. We also learned that the educational inspection had been at that school ten times in the last year at that school. Is that true? Why is this school so attractive for an educational inspection? I'd like the minister to make a statement about it. The second question is for Alexander Vukic, then Prime Minister, we have asked him 26 questions in the last few weeks and months, and he has not answered any questions. Now they'd ask him a 27th question. Is the fact that the SNS has made a coalition with Ramush Haradinaj in Kosovo actually another introduction to the change of the Constitution under which the Preamble of the Constitution will be expelled from the Constitution? Do you know that a change in the constitution usually requires 50% turnout and that half of it must be declared for a change or against a change in the Constitution? It's very difficult to make it happen. Is it true that all this is done in Kosovo so that the US administration and the EU will close their eyes before the uninterrupted descent of democratic rights and freedoms in Serbia? Wasn't it better if we tried to work with the Americans on Kosovo issues to make some completely different groundwork? Here, next to me, I have a document in my hand, a brief draft, which told the president, while he was still head of security services, my colleague from the Faculty of Miroljub Jeftic, where he points to an increasing radicalisation of pro-Islam elements in Kosovo, where he offers an explanation so that the matter could be chased in that direction. Did you know that from Europe's territory in the Islamic war most people have gone from Kosovo's territory? What happens when all these people return to Kosovo? Do they think they're gonna sit on their hands? I think it would be important and valuable to consider whether such a strategy can be included in the state security policy, especially Kosovo's policy. Finally, the question for Maja Gojkovic, president of the Assembly, who is actually obliged to make sure that the Rules of Procedure in this House is respected and that all these questions that we constantly ask every Tuesday and Thursday will be answered within 15 days. This isn't my free appraisal, it says in the Rules of Procedure. So the question for Maja Gojkovic, to whom we have asked this question 17 times and 17 times there is no answer, here is the 18th time, when are we going to start getting answers to these questions that we're asking you? When will they finally convene the Assembly College and bring in the plan and program of work of the Assembly? These are business obligations for the President of the Assembly. When she's going to put a proposal on her shift on the agenda, what did she publicly promise herself a few months ago? I ask the President of the Assembly to give me these answers in writing, not to comment publicly on anyone's statement here on parliamentary issues, but to do what is its legal obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20355	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20356	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at one of the previous sessions, I asked the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade about criminal charges against the former leadership of a Belgrade municipality, it was GO Vračar, as well as the former management of a public enterprise for the management of the business space and the Belgrade municipality. I received an answer a few days ago from the prosecutor's office saying that criminal charges were filed against some persons, Mihajla Samofalov, Aleksandar Djurasinovic, Vladimir Medakovic, Svetlana Trivundić, Branimir Kuzmanovic, Tijana Blagojevic, Mirjana Djordjevic and Aleksandr Ivanovic, because of their suspicion that as officials of the Public Business Management Company and GO Vračar committed a criminal act of abuse of official office. Later, at the request of the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, the applicant submitted documentation relating to the allegations, followed by the More Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, which on 6 March 2017, submitted a request for the collection of the necessary information to the MUP of the Republic of Serbia, the Police Office for the City of Belgrade, the Department for the Control of Economic Crime. I now include the question to the MUP, i.e. The Belgrade Police Administration, the Department of Economic Crime, have they collected the necessary information and information from that case? Someone might be asking why I'm in parliamentary matters potentiating abuses in the township of Vrača, why am I so potent in the Vrachar municipality as such? Because Vračar may have been the best example of one party's haughtiness and thieving, it is the DS, which has ruled the Belgrade municipality for over 20 years. It is a party which, by the way, calls the people a "yellow company", and that such an epithet or nickname deserve to speak exactly what their authorities have done. The only one who likes beer, and not at the session today, from Smederjevska Palanka, is the only one who was more able to destroy one local self-government than the former DS pests who ran the Vrakar municipality. But the Witch is more specific, I stress, precisely because the DS has destroyed that Belgrade municipality for more than two decades. The results, as I said, were extremely devastating and devastating. To remind ourselves, the balance of the 20-year-old government of the "yellow company" in Vračar, the devastation of the municipality, the halved Business Space Fund, the missing apartments, the destroyed all institutions and enterprises whose founder is Vračar Municipality, the huge debts and minuses that have arisen. So 780 million dinars minus, i.e. unpaid claims, which one apparently allowed to remain unpaid when it comes to the Public Business Office for the Management of the Vračar Municipality's business space. Hundreds of dwellings that were in public property, i.e. that were in Vračar Municipality’s fund, which were somehow magically lost from records and are no longer present. There used to be, there used to be, they're gone today. No one has the answer to the question where they went, what about those apartments, who took them, how they got their legs, how they disappeared? The literally halved number of squares of business space, which I have been talking about over the past 20 years, is slowly isolated from the Public Business Management Fund, and I'm only going to mention a number of 5.354 squares for which there is no documentation where they disappeared. How is it possible they're gone? All the other affairs we had here persistently, while the "yellows" were in power in the municipality. They led the Vračar municipality, but they led the city of Belgrade, and destroyed and destroyed the city of Belgrade. I will remind only for one reason, because of the announcement of a recent election in the City of Belgrade, I will remind only that the City of Belgrade is responsible for more than 1.1 billion euros during their government. I will also remind myself that in this short time, we managed to split the debt from our own resources, not by taking the loan, but only by saving and on realistic grounds, we managed to cut apart the debt made by Dragan Gilas and the other vermin that led the City of Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20357	Since none of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are coming forward, we continue to search the details of the first item of the agenda of the draft law on the foundations of the education and education system. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Alexi, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20358	Dear Vice-President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Ministry and Minister, we have given the amendment to Article 7, meanwhile, the Ministry realised that this Article 7 was not a Article 7 paragraph 2 point 1, that it was not clearly written, and you accepted the amendment of one of the colleagues, also from the opposition and amended this member. I think it's important that we read what that member means. This member speaks of what we should do in achieving the principles of education and education and then says the law, that in collaboration with the family, the involvement of parents, or another legal representative, in order to successfully achieve the objectives set for education and education, the local community should also be involved, etc. So the Ministry and all those involved in education and education should include both parents and family and the local community. You've declared it this law and we agree with it, but you're quite the opposite of what you're declaring this law you're doing. I suggest you involve your parents in solving the problem at the school in Zemun, as you wrote in law, and to involve your family. All parents of children from Svetozar Miletic school in Zemun do not want the director and children to be sent to school for days. Yesterday there was a contribution of 1200 students, only 50 going to school. A thousand 150 students lost a month of class. Why? Because the Ministry wants to replace the director and wants to replace him, as we heard earlier, it was a question addressed to the minister he did not answer, because the school secretary kept a record on the school board. Because someone with a degree in geography taught geography, which is nothing against the law. Or because twice a teacher's contract was extended for a certain amount of time because of a replacement while the second teacher was on maternity leave. So we haven't heard of the legal reasons why the school director should be appointed. We're assuming it's a political shootout with the head of the Zemun school, and you're saying in law, we should consult our parents...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20359	Comrade Konstantinovic, would you like to explain to me what this has to do with your amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20360	By consulting your parents? It's got something to do with it. The law declares something that the minister directly violates the second it proposes to be introduced into the law. What's this worth to us in law if we don't want to act like one? If this is written, consult your parents, your parents will tell you. Well, they have the right parents to say something.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20361	I thank my colleague Konstantinovic. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20362	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, this is one of the 20 amendments I have submitted to this law and most amendments are just aimed at improving the law and at one subject that is more than current, which is the fight against peer violence. In particular, this amendment treats the problem of education at home of children who are severely ill despite the right to home treatment with this amendment, I suggest that children be given the right to home education and education at times when they are severely ill, when they are postoperatively forced to go to some rehabilitation, when they are unable to attend regular classes. As a doctor and as a professor, I can tell you that many conditions, medical conditions such as rare diseases, such as oncological cases require a longer post-operative rehabilitation process and the time it takes for these children to go back to their daily activities. I think that in many situations, many of these diagnosisal situations that impair them to attend regular classes can, through one vision and home learning and education, not be late for their generation and continue their learning at home. I want to say that this is one problem that exists in Serbia. There is a problem much bigger, not only about education, there is also a problem for parents who are severely ill children who are forced to take sick leave or even quit in some situations in order to be with their child during treatment, in the treatment process. It's an initiative that didn't go to your ministry, it's an NURDOR-A initiative that went to the Ministry of Health or the Health Insurance Fund, and I think we'll soon have a chance to change this law and allow NURDOR's initiative that parents have the right to be with their sick child for as long as their treatment and post-operative period lasts. I said in the beginning, this is one of the twenty amendments I proposed to this law. You, as a resolute minister, have adopted one of these amendments of mine. I thank you for that, but I invite you to look at the amendments that are related to peer violence in the next members of the law. Personally, I think they're good, and we can find ways to put some of these suggestions that are tied right against peer violence into the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20363	The word has a minister, Mr. Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20364	You're right. This is regulated in part in this law, in point 4. However, a set of laws that will enter the Assembly, which are part of this complex law, are laws on pre-school, primary and secondary education. Since we couldn't get in with all the laws at once, that problem is fine-tuning these other laws and regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20365	The amendment, added after Article 7a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marijan Risticevic and Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic submitted to the 8th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20366	To save time, I won't explain the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20367	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20368	To save time, I won't explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20369	Thank you. Members of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs... I'm sorry. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20370	We, Serbian radicals, absolutely do not dispute the right of the MPs to write amendments, to write whatever amendments they want, but I have carefully looked at this amendment to Article 8, and I have seen something in which it differs from the proposed Article 8. This is indeed writing, the submission of amendments only to ensure that because of the large number of amendments, which are current and which have been submitted by the MPs in order to shorten, that is to say, to take time for MPs who want to explain the amendments to do so in the right way and to do so. So I'm surprised that the committee of directors has released these amendments, but since the amendment has already been submitted, therefore, which is identical with the proposed member, there is a lot here that the subject of this article 8 is the basic objectives of education and education and a lot of that is stated here, and I would like to ask, as part of this article, the minister who spoke here that he intends that in schools that are not used for teaching, which are old objects, etc. to adjust them, to do them a little bit so that it could be used for extracurricular activities, which is totally fine, that less money is given for some kind of field trip, etc. But I ask you ministers to hire a good lawyer of property in your ministry, to examine all over Serbia, to examine all over Serbia what it was once and now was owned by schools or ministries and how some facilities have disappeared. I will give you an example of a school in Kursumlia, which was given in 1988 to use the "Mountain" then, which was a social enterprise, for use until it needed school for school purposes. In the meantime, she needed both school and children from the village of Kursumlijska to go to another village in the school, and the most important thing is that we have information, i.e. evidence from the catastra, that local sheriff, a certain Radovan Raičević, who, by the way, wrote down the President of the Progressive Party in Kursumlia, and he owned the "Planinke" in the meantime, and without any legal basis, he registered the school facility on behalf of his company, so he took the school facility privately. I just wanted to distract you, send your associates, who knows how many of these are in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20371	Thank you. MPs have the right to submit amendments and have the right to explain them and not explain them. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20372	I thank the president. I have submitted an amendment to Article 8. which speaks of the objectives of education and education, and this is to point 2 where it writes – providing a stimulating and safe environment for the overall development of children, pupils and adults, developing non-violent behaviour and establishing zero tolerance towards violence. We are looking for this amendment and we find it extremely important to explicitly state, to suggest that zero tolerance is particularly established towards peer violence and violence based on assumed sexual orientation. Why? We are all witnessing a galoping increase in peer violence, and I think it is unquestionable for all the MPs in this room, as well as for the whole society. We are also all aware, witnesses, those who are parents, those who are not parents from their environment, that labeling children at the youngest age of primary school is something that is "natural matter". So, children are the most brutal in labelling and discrimination. What is a phenomenal thing is that we have fatal consequences in the non-reaction of schools, i.e. authorities, when it comes to peer violence, in educational institutions and I will only give a tragic example of little Alexa Jankovic from Nis, whose example and initiative through "Alex's Law" did not find the way unfortunately to this Assembly, but this amendment intervention could in some way not be tempered, but rather contribute to the prevention, which is the most effective way to combat any kind of violence, this situation could be corrected. I will remind my colleagues that the determination towards violence, peer violence, is based on the assumed sexual orientation and obligation of this House, given that, exactly one year ago, two resolution committees on European integration and human and minority rights jointly committed that the National Assembly would adopt, within an urgent time, a declaration that is assumed among other things and prevention, I will repeat, a very important peer violence based on the assumed sexual orientation. So, young people, high school students who are or are presumed to be members of LGBT communities suffer terrible violence in their environment, and they have also witnessed this in public hearings here in the National Assembly, and it's good to hear about it here, but I think this is a real opportunity, Mr. Minister, that it is explicitly written in this point, Article 8 of this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20373	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20374	Dear President, Mr. Minister, someone said yesterday that there was little talk in the proposal for a law on peer violence. I think that's a good thing, Mr. Minister, which is less and less said for the reason that violence is due to disquieting. The more we need to talk about education in school, society, the more we need to talk about the family we've banished over the last ten years. There were examples, and I can also list them, where for parties of the former regime, it was forbidden to talk about education in schools and teachers by individual directors, because directors were elected in the way they were elected, so often the directors were also rude. That the result of unquestioning is peer violence, proves that it is amongst us MPs. We have MPs and promoters, one of the proposings of this amendment, that yesterday he told certain MPs and presidents of the state that we are madmen, then he said in this high house, see what is the consequence of the question, that we are receiving i.e. A kind of monkey. Then he told one MP that he was cattle, I have dates and seconds and minutes when in this high house that MP who is one of the proposings of this amendment said. We need to talk as little about violence on TV as possible, about education, about making plans for educational action in schools that are not available. I asked the school's directors at a seminar if they had plans for the educational performance of the school, and they said they didn't. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament and Mr. Minister, every day we can get 20 milliliters into one ward and we can't achieve anything. So violence is the result of a lack of questioning. It's when a student commits violence, it's already an act done. By our actions, we teachers, teachers, parents, all social factors that haven't worked in the last 15 years, we need to do everything we can to avoid violence. So we're up for it. This law goes that way, Mr. Minister. This is the first time in 15 years that our law on the basics of education and education, and even in high school tried to bring education back to society, school and if you want other factors. We had the fact that our law with the former regime's ministers did not mention the very name of education, and even if you want an education strategy is called an education strategy, not an education and education strategy. You're trying this law, and we're going to support it terribly, and we're going to support our parents, to get our education back in schools, to kind of bring the entire educational system into line, to quote this, to courte it, and to bring it to the extent that it should stand, etc. Let me say it again, one more time. We support this law, and as much as we can talk about education and teachers, as well as schools, make plans for educational action, starting with the classroom through student organisations, and even the teaching content of individual teaching classes, and it has been ignored. In other words, the educational function of teaching was neglected, more of a material task of teaching, and less of an educational and functional one. This law is just favoring, in a way, in quotes, to say, favouring, not only educational but also functionally what you said, and that is the goal of both this law and the goal of modern school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20375	Zoran Zivkovic. As authorized, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20376	counterpart Tepic said everything to be said about this amendment and I don't think there is any dilemma, that he should be accepted and that no one who wants to do anything good for Serbia, for children, for students, for the school system, for education and education could say anything against it. I hope that we will find a positive decision by the minister, that he will change his decision, that is, the government's decision as having the right to be empowered, and accept this amendment by showing that the government of Serbia and the present minister want to make this law better, for the greater good, and that when something comes well from the opposition that it should not be rejected in itself but rather as part of some real, democratic decision in Parliament where we are now. It's a big dilemma, and it's not only in Serbia but also in other countries, whether education is part of what education should be about, or whether it's business, first of all, family and some other segments of society, and I don't want to judge it now. It's a dialogue that should also be professional, but that should have a basis in the tradition of one day. Were schools ever a place to raise, or was education their primary function? It's very dangerous to trust your children's education with a school or with individual educators, who show a high level of ignorance of basic things that you need to know from general education. Let's say, one of these things is that they're taking people, monkeys and lemurs, that it's the same group, that at least the professors of the university should know, and they can learn that from the knowledge of nature and society, if that object still exists, in my time it existed. So, being recognized by some ugly expression, it's not the fault of someone who says it, but someone who recognizes it, probably justifiably, and yet it doesn't give him an excuse not to know the basics, such as that it's an incompatible function of the president of the state and any other public function, or the function of the party president, and I'm not going to talk about primates anymore. I called one of his colleagues a renaissance personality, and he was offended by the same thing. So a little learning would be good for these traveling professors who travel several hundred thousand miles. First they're Tudjman's MPs, then they come here to tell us about the great heart. So, worst thing, violence is produced in a way that one society cultivates a culture of violence. We are, unfortunately, part of a society that took part in the 1990s, and then everyone who holds power in Serbia today, along with honorable exceptions, who should report for themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20377	You've wasted your time as an authorised representative, now you're moving on to the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20378	Five more seconds. They all produced a culture of violence in Serbia and must be interrupted.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20379	Minister Mladen Sarčević has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20380	Just two sentences, it's about a colleague named Tepic. The point of point 2 is to establish zero tolerance for violence. I don't know what more we could put behind it. Of course, the rules that solve the whole problem are further done. Thank you. I'm sorry, I said we had attitude two, establishing zero tolerance for violence. [[People's MPs are getting, "You can't hear anything."]] It's quite enough category, behind which you really don't know what to say, with the fact that I said yesterday and these days that there are 200 normative acts that follow this system law. So, the Rules that are now going to work out the whole problem are working on that field.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20381	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20382	President-in-Office, respected citizens of Serbia, I address you, respected students of pedagogy and all study groups, I address you. I am shocked by the statements of a previous MP who says that school should not be brought up. That, respected citizens, has ruled for the last 15 years. Now you see it in action. So, no schools, no social organisations, no student organisations, no means of mass communication, etc. You can see why the MPs are fighting for ignorance. When we have a question, we also have an education, there's no knowledge. Teachers and students know that very well. We have three teaching assignments – material, functional and educational, which teachers in daily preparation have to work daily. That's not what I'd like to talk about, because it's an MP who doesn't know the basics of pedagogy. Also, does anyone say anything right, they will assess the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, alluding that I would be Tudjman's MP, yes, gentlemen, Mr People's Parliament, citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the former Yugoslavia know that I was in the first multi-party parliament. You have on the Internet my coming forward that I was in the first multiparty council, you have on the Internet my stepping out, every sentence. I am proud to have defended the Serbian people from Ustasha HDZ as a Serb in the first multi-party parliament. So, once again, I repeat, I am proud to be brave, so to speak, defending my people. Also, I am proud to have courageously defended my people in The Hague tribunal and my president, unlike the previous MP who advocated it, was actually one of the merits that drove our president to The Hague, in that sense history will give its estimates of me and of him and of all these events. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20383	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Mihajlo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20384	As an educational longtime worker, with 38 years of work experience, I know we've been talking about the educational process all along. There's no education without education, no education without education. Uneducated educational process, all the time educational process. In that spirit and in that direction and in that direction, we need to talk. If we do that, then education makes sense and education makes sense. Every separation is devastating and not good for generations to come. So much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20385	Thank you. By amendment, MP Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20386	Thank you. I just wanted to ask here, in front of so many witnesses in the National Assembly, that it guarantees that sublegal regulations will regulate it, that peer violence and violence will also be peer-based, based on assumed sexual orientation, so I'm talking about a syntagma that's generally accepted as a category of violence, that's how it's going to be written in sublegal acts. Although I would very much like to, as well as the parliamentary group to which I belong, the Club of Independent MPs, to make sure that this is also recognized in the law. Not by chance, because we're all witnesses and fatal outcomes of students who can't handle school's inadequate response alone. It does not mean that such cases will be more or less in the future, but I understand that your answer to every amendment of this kind – will be in sublaws. Do we have a promise on your part that this will be indicated? Yeah. Nod means yes. So I understand the answer is yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20387	It'll be considered. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Here you are, MP Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20388	Dear citizens of Serbia, fellow MPs, the debate today continues on an extremely important roof education law and within it on a member who has great importance because of the potential for education education. We've had education without education a long time ago, and here I think we all agree that something like that has to change. In particular, I support one of these points in Article 8 that speaks of healthy lifestyles as one important goal and the idea of this law. We only suggested that instead – healthy lifestyles stand – a healthy way of life, because we think it is more accurate. What we cannot agree on with the minister is – why is an unconstitutional category of gender equality being introduced here? You yourself have objected that something that doesn't exist in the Constitution can't even exist in the law. Well, Mr. Minister, gender equality doesn't exist in the Constitution of Serbia, so it can't even stand in this law of yours and I'm asking you to throw it out. Enough with the insertion of non-existent and non-constitutional terms such as gender equality, sexual orientation and so forth. The third thing that we have proposed to you here and which we consider extremely important is that in point 16) after saying, "respect and cherish Serbian and native languages, traditions and cultures of the Serb people and national minorities", which is absolutely in place, they add the words: "requestion in the patriotic spirit". That's the key word we want to see in this law of yours. When future generations in Serbia will be raised in a patriotic spirit, which is one of the most important national feelings and is one of the most important parts of our overall national education. We cannot, Mr. Minister, raise future generations on the reality of Pink culture. It can't be part of young people, starlets, criminals and what your Ministry of Culture allows, along with the regulatory body for electronic media, to broadcast on our televisions. We need a different system of values. You have well recognized the importance of healthy lifestyles, but you have not recognized the importance of patriotic training. So, Serbian citizens, Serbs have all the reasons for this world to be proud of belonging to the Serbian people, to say we are Serbs and we are proud of that, to go free to all Europe and the world with our culture, with our history, with our spirituality, with our greats, and thus to raise future generations. That's the kind of education you have in the Russian Federation as a patriotic education. So you have education in the West, where in the United States and Canada school days begin with the intonation of national anthems, everywhere and in every place you see national flags. I don't see why we Serbs would be the only ones ashamed of patriotic training and why shouldn't we have an education in the patriotic spirit at school, as proposed by this amendment of the Serbian Movement Group of the Dvora? I'd like to hear the arguments against patriotic training.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20389	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20390	I think that Article 16 sufficiently covers the development of the consciousness and sense of belonging to the Republic of Serbia, and through many other curricula and programme, the choice of lecturing and all other forms of work is being permeated and the cross-cutting of history and geography and other subjects doesn't have to stand here even more decadently. This is very decadent. Secondly, for the first time in this law is the respect and care of the Serbian language. It's in the old one. So it's in. The mother stands for all other members of the national minorities. So this is an important step and the difference we're talking about. The law prohibiting discrimination, this term "natural equality", you know that the law passes 22 opinions and that all representatives of various bodies, not just ministries, provide suggestions, suggestions and some of them are respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20391	Thank you. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20392	Thank you, President. Dear Mr. Minister, as many who have discussed the amendments they have submitted to this article themselves, this article is about the objectives of education. We suggested adding four new targets. All four were taken from the Education Development Strategy until 2020, which was attended by the largest experts in this country for education, which was adopted by the government in the same composition as it is now. They didn't sit in some closed room, so they wrote, they consulted, there were public debates, there were discussions. So all the people in this country who are interested in any way in education were involved in making this strategy. We propose that, among other things, education goals be set: an increase in the population of the Republic of Serbia at all educational levels, from pre-school education and education to lifelong learning; secondly, the achievement of the maintenance of the relevance of education, especially one which is fully or partly financed from public sources and the efficiency of the use of all resources of education, i.e. the completion of education within the foreseen period with a minimum duration of duration and reduced school leaving. Mr. Sarcevic, why don't you want this added to the goals of the education you yourself have found? You're saying that what you suggested is arranged in a better and more precise way. I really don't know if you've read these arguments that someone wrote, because it can't be more precise where there are fewer points, if we suggest adding more dots? Either someone doesn't understand what it means more precisely, or you don't read what you sent us here? It doesn't matter. Anyway, why don't you say why you don't want these three new goals set as education goals in the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20393	Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20394	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to this article on equalising the chances for the success of all Serbian citizens, so after all these points that set goals, I have added an amendment that says that education and education is aimed at equating life chances for the success of all citizens of Serbia, i.e. children in preschool and school facilities. The amendment was rejected, with the following explanation: "Amendment is not accepted, since it is not clear what the proposal is for a period of equalising the chances for the lives of all citizens of Serbia," noting that the chances for education and education are already prescribed. So on the one hand, it's not clear, and on the other hand it seems clear, so it's said to be already prescribed. I don't know who wrote this, but if you've read the amendments I suggested, it's very clear what I mean by equal opportunities. So the equality of chance is when you have children coming from a different environment of life. Let them come from richer families, some from the poor. Those who come from richer families have a better chance of life's success. Those who come from the poor have fewer chances of a lifetime's success. Why did I put that here? Because, let's say, when it comes to preschool education, it's still not as accessible to our children today. Some kids have more chances of enrolling in kindergartens, less chance of enrolling in kindergartens. In practice, we learn that the very children who come from better families have a better chance of enrolling in kindergartens. It is then translated into better success in school, better success in high school, in colleges and in life. We want to level these possibilities by making a commitment, this is one general member who obliges all preschool and school institutions to allow everyone to open their doors to all children, and this can, by prescribing, bring the principle that kindergartens are paid out of the budget for all children. The minister, by the way, said it was a good idea the other day, only why not get it into the law, so it's said -- we want to even the odds of all Serbian citizens by allowing them to come to kindergartens so they don't pay anything, that they have free textbooks in elementary schools. That was the essence of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20395	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20396	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understood that this should be available to everyone, but it doesn't say that. The messenger who spoke before me is a lecturer, a professor, or a little short on being a professor, a regular professor. Otherwise, he graduated, as far as I know, from Soros University in Hungary. The subject is next. When teachers say school should be available, then they should write it, but if the professor writes - by being available to everyone, available to everyone, schooling is not available, as far as I know, but also by being a university professor who graduated after design school, graduated there somewhere in Hungary, there in some Soros University, he was forgiven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20397	Thank you. The amendment, added after Article 8a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Marijan Risticevic and Prof. Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20398	In order to work more efficiently, I am giving up my reasoning, but it is our right to submit amendments, given that there are various comments, since my parliamentary group has only six minutes, so sometimes it is necessary to submit an amendment to be involved in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20399	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20400	Dear President, for saving time, I'm giving up my argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20401	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20402	Thank you. This is a member who talks about what I was talking about when we had a principle debate, and that's what we students want, what we want from those kids, what they should be when they get out of school. According to what you refused, Mr. Sarčević, you do not want children to view the world around them critically as responsible citizens and are ready for life in a democratically arranged and human society based on respect for human and civil rights, rights to diversity and care for others, as well as basic values of justice, truth, freedom, honesty and personal responsibilities. You don't want children who finish school to have developed awareness of themselves, developed self-initiative, self-valued ability, express their opinions, and you don't want children who finish school to develop their ability to communicate, dialogue, feelings of solidarity, quality and effective co-operation with others and abilities for teamwork, and you don't want them to learn, learn and use their mind. I'd ask you why you don't want it, Mr. Sarcevic, but it's clear why you don't want it. You do not want this because you, too, think that the basic problem of our education is that you do not come out of it by finished workers who will probably be overjoyed that they have the opportunity to stand for 10 euros a day behind the tape and wear diapers and listen to what they are told, because you do not think that the problem of our education is that it is outdated, overcome, that teachers and teachers are underpaid, you do not think that the problem of our education is that children who do not know that they are coming out of it is that children who are not willing to be slaves in factories that the Government of the Republic of Serbia overpaid by giving investors tens of thousands of euros per job. You people like this who would have these qualities that we suggested, and you refused, obviously you don't, because people like that would never vote for you or your party in life.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20403	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20404	I don't know which version a colleague has in front of her, but it all says very clearly here. I don't know what language we speak, but if it says that the development of self-awareness, creative abilities, critical opinions, motivations to learn, the ability of teamwork, remains with me to put on the Ministry's website that citizens see what it's all about, because this is pointless to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20405	MPs Dragoljub Micunovic, Natasa Vukovic and Vesna Marjanovic together submitted the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Parliamentarians of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 9 of the amendment. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20406	In Article 15, i.e. In point 15) of this article of the law stands, I will quote correctly, one of the objectives should be to have awareness of its own culture and diversity of cultures, respects the importance etc. We believe that there is no culture of our own, but that it should be specified and given a term to the culture of Serbian and other peoples living in Serbia. It is extremely important that our young people in the process of education and education become aware of Serbian culture and in some way come out into the modern world proud of themselves, their past, their identity, their tradition. For many years ago, we have had one attempt at a process to question anything that is Serbian in Serbia that has declared everything that is Serbian to be some kind of extremism, violence, fascism and how not everything is. We believe that this process simply needs to be completed. We are sick of those who label us, attack us, insult everything that is Serbian, which is traditional, which is Christian, which is family in Serbia. It is very important that our children receive this patriotic education and learn about the culture of the Serbian people from their young feet. You know what in the former Yugoslavia the Serbian language was called our language, the native language, as certain items at universities, how the names of certain national institutions lost the omens of Serbian. We think, simply, that it has become inadmissible and that in such an important educational law, not its own culture, but the culture of the Serbian people must be emphasized. We want to have clear appointments when something refers to the Serbian people, to our tradition, to our culture, to our history. We don't want to hide our name anymore. We want to be proud that we are Serbs and that and the law must recognize.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20407	Thank you. I'll give the word to the Minister, but you missed the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20408	That was in the previous amendment, my colleague, where we are a member of 16. – development of personal and national identity, development of consciousness, feelings of belonging to the Republic of Serbia, respect, fostering Serbian as mother and all others. That's what we talked about last time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20409	Thank you. He looked. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. The word has a national MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20410	Thank you. Here, around this culture, just to be clear, I might try to help you understand. Culture is a much more general notion than you think. Culture is not just a culture of one people, there is a culture of every smaller community, like the culture of the National Assembly, culture within health institutions, Vinchan culture. So culture isn't just about the notion of one people. If we talk about the strength of a nation's culture, it does not defend itself by attacking other cultures, it will first defend itself by the economic power of a nation, as well as the national identity of a nation. There's no fear of mixing with other cultures, that's all we can do. Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20411	You weren't told this. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. Do you want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20412	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers, this amendment aims to enable children to make more effective use of preserved development potentials with appropriate educational, educational and experimental incentives and support. In fact, yesterday and today, we mentioned children with some problem, does health care, means children with autism, children with some diseases that might be through our regulatory programme of inclusion, which is practically introduced into the Republic of Serbia... I personally think that, in addition to the fact that we have introduced the inclusion, many teachers, many teachers are not trained enough to work with these children. I also noticed that as a father who had a child in elementary and high school and as a professor, we need to pay more attention to the education of teachers and teachers who are in contact with these children, because the most important thing is love, but besides love and attention, they need to know how to treat a child who has autism, to know how to treat a child who has Down syndrome, to know that they're dealing with a child who has some kind of interference. This is how this teacher's time, the teacher's time, doesn't work out in the education of a child with special needs, and the other children can make fun of him. What I want to say, and what I did to the previous minister, Mr. Verbic, is one initiative, a civic initiative that came from Mrs. Dragana Rodić and the Association of Dragana Rodić, where we together made a little bonton that would aim at education of peers, that diversity is something that needs to bring us together, that in the class there are children who hear weaker, that there are children who see weaker, that there are children who have diabetes, that there are children who have some interference, but that is no reason to be separated and that is no reason for the other to become a target. It's just that through this bonton, which I have proposed to Minister Verbić, and I'm going to try you in the coming days, weeks, to come to you and present to you a little bonton, through one animation, through a little cartoon bouquet given to the children of the first class where, through certain examples, certain situations, children would have a chance to learn. Besides teaching kids that a friend is not a target, we need to teach teachers, teachers how to work with these kids. Through this amendment I'm just showing you that we have children who are perfect for certain things, and children at a certain point are not for everyone. That's what I'm telling you about children who are in the programme of inclusion. Repeatedly through this example, I think that a good example in the sea of some bad things, in the work of Parliament with the Government, where a low-level family with a child with autism, who had a problem with enrolment, addressed me as a national MP, and I addressed you, and we solved the problem. That boy is extracurricular for computer work, in animation, and he's now enrolled in art school. That's great, but through this amendment, I'm showing you that we need to encourage those kids who are involved, to give them a chance to enroll in one of these schools and give them their potential, that this potential they carry within them, which is the most children with autism. Thank you very much. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20413	Here you go. Do you have a card? So you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on. The amendment, which is added to Article 9a after Article 9, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marijan Risticevic and Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20414	Your Honor, I'm giving up my explanation for saving time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20415	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20416	I won't explain it further because of more efficient work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20417	The amendment, which is added to Article 10a after article 10a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Marijan Risticevic and Professor Dr Marko Atlagic submitted to the 11th amendment, in the same text. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20418	Because of the more efficient work I'm giving up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20419	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20420	Because of my more efficient work, I'm giving up my explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20421	Thank you. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which is added to Article 11a after Article 11, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic put together the title above members and Article 12 of the amendment. The word has been made by the MP Natasa Sp Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20422	Thank you, President. We asked, Mr. Minister, to delete the title and this member because this is our way, when it was established in the construction of the previous law, by inventing some warm water. You will agree, as well as most colleagues who have been educated in primary and secondary education according to earlier standards and our education system of general intrinsic competences should identify a good educator and expert, start with teachers, and also in preschool age and later in classrooms, someone who needs to develop a certain talent in children. Instead of this and all these above-mentioned ways of these competences, first of all something completely incomprehensible and something that never existed in our education system, pedagogues, but probably can't because a lot of them are demoralized because of the other obligations imposed on them by this and the previous law, they need to deal more with what is talent with every student, to recognize it, to channel it. That's how it was in our time. Remember only when the school of talent for musical talent was established in Ćupria. I was a child for a while, and then other schools in the field of natural science. I think that's supposed to be an incentive for all the kids. Of course, and what is brought from the house, which is traditional Serbian values and on them to learn and to develop their opportunities, that later, during their schooling, they know clearly, and not only that it is a priority – we will finish a small graduation, go to high school enrollment, until the last moment neither they, nor parents, become a chaotic state, but that in such a way, by identifying it and by directing it from the youngest legs, one who is able, who has certain capacities and ends an adequate school and tomorrow is useful to our society.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20423	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 6:00 p.m. That extension is just in case, if we step over for a minute. On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marijan Risticevic and Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic submitted. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20424	I won't explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20425	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20426	For saving time, I'm giving up my argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20427	Thank you. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. The word has Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20428	I thank the president. With this amendment, the Parliamental Club of Independent Members considers that Article 12 should be deleted for the simple reason that all the competences mentioned in this chapter are in general inter-entity, counted randomly with unequal formulations, linguistically incorrect, I would even say illiterate. On the other hand, you in two former members, or Article 9, have already covered practically what would be considered the outcome of education and education. We believe that this is better done by Article 9, than is said here to be a random, vague and illiterate number of competences, among which responsibility is classified in these categories. Responsibility is not at all a competence, for starters. I will give just a few examples where you, in Article 9, say - general inter-entity competences for the end of compulsory primary education and education in the Republic are, under point 2. responsible participation in a democratic society. And for the end of high school education, responsible participation in a democratic society is, for example, in point 7. If, in some sense, this competence, whatever this means, is unclearly contained in the bill's proposal and take into account how responsible participation in a democratic society is more important in primary school education than in secondary education, with everything that assumes participation in a democratic society and, among other things, the willingness of future seniors, some in the fourth grade of high school to vote for the first time. Therefore, we believe that this article should be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20429	The 12th Amendment was submitted by Branka Stamenkovic. The government and the committee in charge have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20430	Thank you. This amendment corrects this bill with certain spelling and spelling errors. I am pleased that the legislator understands the importance of the fact that we need the laws that we make to be very linguistically clean and clear. I just don't understand how it's possible for the Ministry of Education to get a bill with a number of grammatical and spelling errors. It came to us from other ministries, but then you reject the fact that, say, doctors usually communicate in Latin. I think the Ministry of Education must have a special responsibility for that. Yesterday we spent half a day talking about how national identity defends itself with Cyrillic. I think we need first of all to defend identity by writing it was her on both Latin and Cyrillic. I think that this is not because people who work and prepare these laws in the ministry are illiterate, I believe that very written people, but rather because of pressure, quickly, by emergency procedure, and I would ask that this practice be interrupted in the future and that what comes to the Assembly is examined several times, and that MPs are left with more time to study the laws that come to the Assembly, not to ask to be followed by an urgent procedure in the future. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20431	Representatives Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić and Miladin Ševarlic submitted the 12th amendment. The word is Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20432	Thank you, Chairman. This is, in fact, about this amendment, which suggests that Article 12, when it comes to intrinsic competences at the end of primary school education, is deleted from point 2 and point 7. In point 2, he says – responsible participation in a democratic society and point 7. - entrepreneurship and orientation towards entrepreneurship. There are both at the end of high school education and it's completely adjusted there, but we don't see how a student who graduated from primary school can have entrepreneurship and orientation to entrepreneurship. That's why we suggested that it be deleted, because we think that a little more attention should have been given to the age of the children to whom a legal solution is proposed. Otherwise, a member as a member is fine, but we don't feel that these two are absolutely necessary. So when we talk about cross-cutting competences at the end of primary school education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20433	The amendment, which is added to Article 12 after Article 12, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20434	Thank you. Amendment 12a proposes the introduction of free textbooks for all children in primary and secondary schools. In primary schools there are 560,000 pupils, and 260,000 are in secondary schools. This cost can be paid. It's interesting, based on yesterday's debate, I got a lot of messages from the citizens. One of them wrote that he had finished school and that he had educated children in Botswana and that in Botswana the practice is such that textbooks are obtained from the budget. So all the children of our diaspora who leave the country and, say, school in the countries of North America, in the EU, get in these capitalist countries textbooks that have been paid out of the budget because all these countries understand how important this is and don't leave out such a thing to the market that has practically made so many textbooks that serve only to rob parents. This cost can be paid. To obtain all these textbooks, all children, all primary and all secondary schools in Serbia, it takes 0.23% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. In order for citizens to know how much it is, it is twice as much as the grant received by Er Serbia every year. The subsidies are even bigger than that, here, last year, in 2016 they got so much. Double what it costs to get all the textbooks. For five years we've heard different stories than the ruling majority, it's finally time to stand behind something. This is something you can do. Citizens expect you to introduce, or do something that is possible to pay and that is certainly in the interest of families, who can hardly put an end to the end. Therefore, I think it is time to move from word to deed and adopt this amendment that all textbooks for all children in all primary and secondary schools are paid from the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20435	The word has an MP, Mihajlo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20436	I have already heard this proposal several times, and I suggest that the one who spoke before me, or Mr Radulovic, does not say 0.23%, is a relative indicator. You tell the citizens what an absolute amount it is. How much does a student's textbook cost? How much for the textbooks? How much is this 0.23% and from which items in the budget will it be removed exactly without disrupting its functioning? So, do one calculation and don't repeat 0.23% all the time. It doesn't mean anything if you don't know the principal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20437	The word is Sasa Radulovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20438	I thank the ruling majority MP, who apparently did not read the amendment, did not read the explanation, so I will now do it for him to answer that question. So the average set of textbooks in Serbia costs between 10 and 17 000 dinars, if we take an average price of about 12,000, say, and we multiply by the number of students, you get an absolute amount of 560,000 students in primary schools, which when divided by four, because textbooks are not bought to everyone, but are inherited from generation to generation, so, say in countries like Canada or the European Union, every four years you change textbooks, you get 14 million euros. Also, for 260 thousand high school students, when you take an average book price of about 14,000 dinars, you come to a price that is about 8m euros using the same bill. Where'd you pay for that? I've made more proposals, I'll repeat this one major, the Er Serbia subsidy is over 40m euros, this is possible with half that subsidy, and not everything from "Er Serbia". If you cancel out, you take a little of all these foreign investors you give subsidies to, which are practically for opening cheap jobs for cheap labour, which are hundreds of millions of euros a year, then it's easy to determine that one small percentage of 5 to 10% of these figures can pay for all textbooks. On the other hand, your parents will be very grateful, because, you know, the average income in Serbia is 57,000 dinars, or households. Do you know what a blow it is for a family to have to buy textbooks, which are between 10,000 and 17,000 dinars set? Well, then, if they have another child, a third child, so that cost is unbearable, poor people take credit. Serbia is a unique country by taking loans to get children textbooks. This can be paid, here's a chance for you to do something good for the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20439	Thank you. The word is Mikhailo Jokic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20440	You know what a calculator is. You have to do it on two decimals, you can't flirt with millions and don't laugh, nothing's funny. First, it's rude, I didn't laugh at first when you were talking, I'm just telling you that you have to do a calculation, and you know what it is. So exactly to say on two decimals how much it is. What you're proposing is a very good thing and it doesn't have to be done in general, it can be bought first grade, then next year it's second grade and it'll be solved in a few years in advance. So much for me, thank you. (Saša Radulovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20441	The word is Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20442	Dear President, we have listened well, namely, it would be nice for us to provide our students with free food and transportation and textbooks. It's a matter of some future. That's the goal of this country. Yesterday, the minister said very well how this government will achieve it in the future. I think we could buy them a lot of textbooks that the previous speaker, Mr. Radulovic, was not a bankruptcy manager and the end of bankruptcy at 14 companies and damaged millions of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'll just say one sentence. One prominent newspaper that published the title – Radulovic Bruco, how much money you stole, finished the quote. I could say that for days, because of these words, Mr. Radulovic sued me to the Court of Justice and the Court of Appeal, he knows well how it was done, and there are solutions to his punishment and he's charged a certain financial sum he had to pay. In addition, he sued Mr. Risticevic, and I think he'll lose that court that's still under way. Thank you very much. (Saša Radulovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20443	Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20444	I thank the honourable MP who flees the court, or is extracting himself on parliamentary immunity and trying to extort, because these things he says in court, of course he can't prove it, or in court he would pay the penalty. So I don't want to talk about it anymore. As for the calculation of two decimals, let me tell you, you have the calculations here, you can get away with whatever you want, this is a simple thing. It doesn't take us years to bring this in. I've shown you nicely, in a simple account, that this is half the subsidy that "Er Serbia" gets one year, that it's about 5 to 10% of the subsidies given to foreign investors. It's just possible to pay right now, no years are necessary for this. As far as bankruptcy is concerned, I'm proud of everything I've done in bankruptcy, I've caught thieves, they've ended up in prison, I've never taken a penny from anyone, but these inventions are repeated and repeated. For example, prominent lists of fellow Members of Parliament are discussed. The courier, who wrote about it when I stepped on Mladjan Dinkic, so he used these newspapers and played these really funny stories about bankruptcy. There I protected state property, protected trustees, and prevented thieves from stealing. So, I'm all proud of it, that every five years you've been talking about this, you're repeating the same thing, these same MPs who are speaking today voted for my budget of the Ministry of Economy that I've abolished all subsidies. So this is where they talk about bells, they vote bells. The citizens would have to know that this is an attempt to turn away from the topic, and the theme is the SNS could do something for the citizens, to move from words to deeds, instead of talking...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20445	Ambassador, just replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20446	This is a replica. You see, even the President of the Assembly can't take it when he hears the arguments, so he interrupts the speaker and tries to take away my time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20447	I can't really understand your discussion. I'm honest, I don't understand you at all. So the replica has to be, read the Rules of Procedure, kindly please, to see what the replica means. You mix grandmothers and frogs. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20448	So why can't I vote in favour of this amendment, because this amendment is actually not mathematically correct, and we call for a MP who explains that it's all true, and in fact it's mathematically not true, because you have 560,000, its terminology and its explanation, 560,000 primary school students, by 12 thousand sets, 240, 260 per 14 000, that's 84m euros, 84m euros is not 20m euros. If you use the argument to divide by 4, you can also use the argument to divide by 40, so that would be 2 million euros per year. The fiscal year doesn't last four years. If we were to adopt this amendment, that would mean the fiscal cost of this moment, this year. It would amount to 86m euros. That is why I cannot accept this amendment specifically, but of course I can accept the idea that Serbia's general education should be free of charge. What does that mean? That when we reach the economic level, we can as a state finance education, textbooks, food. That's the thing we all stand for, and that's the social category that we all have to strive for. Education in Serbia should be free, regardless of the social status that parents have in the country. First of all, because in this way we give the same message and social one, not to separate children and that Serbia should be unique.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20449	Thank you. Lawmakers Marjan Risticevic and Marko Atlagic submitted to the 13th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20450	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am not an electrician who pretends to be an economist. Divided in education, you can't be an electrician, if you're an electrician, and if you're tall, then you can change light bulbs easily. But when you start being a mathematician, then you have to count, even electricians know math. With that in mind, about that amendment of mine, I have to say that 560,000 students with all their textbooks and computers, a colleague who spoke earlier forgot his computers, that's a thousand euros per student. That's 560m euros, to cut in half, that's 280m and 2.8% of budget revenue. But when he's an electrician, he forgets one zero and says it's 0.23%. So it's a significant asset that needs to be taken from someone. Practically, he's defending his parents by saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20451	It's an amendment to your military education.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20452	Yeah, it's about education. So he educates parents in the following way -- give you money, let's get you money, let's give you money. That he's a little bit more educated in accordance with the amendment, no matter what the bankruptcy manager is, and don't ask yourself there. (Sasa Radulovic: Can't talk about this amendment. ) I could interpret this folk proverb – when it's taken from the people, it's like taking from a bee, you have to take so much that there's something left for the bees, and the bankruptcy managers don't know, they take everything and dump the hive. Thank you. (Saša Radulovic: Rules of Procedure. ) (Branka Stamenković: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20453	The word has been given by MP Marko Atlagic, the amendment-bearer of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20454	Dear President, just two sentences to say. Those who play unarticulated voices, please die. Let me just say two sentences, that the previous speaker gave one heavy lie by saying that I was calling for immunity. I didn't, Madam President, but he didn't come... (The National MP Branka Stamenkovic came to the table of the chair and said: "By the Rules of Procedure! “)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20455	Just a minute. I did not allow you to approach the Rules of Procedure. Would you be kind enough not to disturb the work? (Branka Stamenkovic: On what basis? ) Based on that you've got a ticket now. It's a warning. It's a warning. It's a warning. You have three warnings, you're out of work. You've been warned. Please step aside, don't threaten me. You received warnings and met the condition that you no longer participate in the work. Please hold for two minutes so the MP understands that he can no longer participate in the work of parliament. Here you go. I ask the MPs to protect me, if they can, since the MP is attacking me here. The amendment, which is added after article 13a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. [[after breaks]] Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20456	Thank you. Let me repeat, the amendment is about getting free textbooks. This story of how it will be acquired, that it may be later, is agreed by the ruling majority that it is good, because they know that the citizens will. Instead of just empty words, here is an excellent opportunity to adopt an amendment that will free the textbooks for all children. If the citizens of Serbia know, my amendment, like this, doesn't have to be adopted with this text, it's possible to single out a piece or write theirs, to be proposed by the Committee and to adopt it. Here, the DJB MPs will vote for this proposal, not for ours, if they bring it out. Because getting kids to get books is very important. It's a huge cost for all the families in Serbia, they rob them practically through these sets of books, where there's no order about who gets what it costs. In all orderly countries in the world, textbooks are paid from the budget. Our children, who are in the diaspora, which are in North America, in the EU, a large number of families who fled Serbia because of very poor government, practically their children get free textbooks there, and they get them from schools. The bill exists, it's simple, so to pay for the textbook it's a quarter of the purchase price...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20457	Wait, wait, so her word was taken, she has no right to attend, don't perform. I know you're an actress, but I'm talking security.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20458	You've thrown out a letter without any reason, and we're just gonna talk about this. So running away from getting kids textbooks. Gentlemen, the time of the story has passed, enough of it, the citizens are full of hats. Do something at last. Let's get textbooks for all our kids. Enough accusations, enough mud, buy textbooks, citizens watching you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20459	Thank you. Here you go, Tatiana Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20460	I would like to point out the breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 106, paragraph 2. - no one can interrupt the speaker or warn him, except the President of the National Assembly, in the cases provided for in this Rules of Procedure. A moment ago, without any reason, you broke up in the middle of Saša Radulovic's presentation and insulted our colleague, who, without any basis whatsoever, completely against the provisions laid down in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. In fact, Branka Stamenkovic answered the word, stood up, and we all cried out in the same voice that she had reported to the Rules of Procedure, which you, visually, were completely out of line, after which you gave notice and distanced Branka Stamenkovic from the session. Just a minute ago, you insulted her by saying she was just an actress. You should really be ashamed, as president of the National Assembly, to address first and foremost your colleagues in such a tall home.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20461	I didn't say "ordinary," I said "actress." The difference is "usual" and "actress". I said she was an actress. She knows very well that her word was taken from her, and that she doesn't know the Rules of Procedure, so she decided to go out, I don't know if forever, until the end of the session, or just on break, it's not on me. Don't curse me and don't insult me. Nobody curses you! All right, I know, everything's fine. I'll keep working. The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20462	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say immediately that no one in Serbia is against the idea that children have free textbooks. They'll do it again for the citizens of Serbia. No one in their right mind can have anything against such an idea. Of course we all want children to have free textbooks. But he can't, Mr. Radulovich, he can't, because you stole money. There's no money in the budget because you stole them, and you personally, when you were a bankruptcy manager in more than 15 firms, so you concluded contracts with yourself and with your wife's company. I'm asking you to calculate, even though we just saw that your bill isn't going so well, consult someone who knows well how much damage you've done, so there might be an increase in funds to introduce free textbooks for all children. So please reconsider how much money you stole and think again about your amendment. Thank you. (Saša Radulovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20463	There's no replica until I determine, because I'm running a session, Article 104, paragraph 3. Members of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marijan Risticevic and Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20464	In order to calm down passion, I'm giving up discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20465	Thank you. The word is Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20466	In order to calm my passion, I give up my reasoning.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20467	Thank you. The amendment, which is added after article 14a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20468	Thank you. To repeat, textbooks can be obtained for all 560,000 pupils in primary schools, for all 260,000 high school students. No lies about me that I've stolen something of God will stop the MP group from talking about what can be done today. So, subsidies are being thrown at about a billion euros a year from the budget. In the budget, you have a huge item each year to pay for activated guarantees, which is measured in hundreds of millions of euros. The procurement of all textbooks for all children is 0.23% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. That is less than half of Er Serbia's subsidy. This is one-tenth of the damage that was done in "Gelezzari" Smedereva in 2014 and 2015, because my plan for the introduction of order in "Zelezar" did not go through, so the miracle workers from Slovakia were sought. The citizens know that very well. Citizens should also know that all these attempts, the dizziness, these empty words, the stories of the robbery of this and the ones that are completely untrue, will not distract us from the topic. The textbooks can be obtained. This can be done in this law. This is the right law to do that, since it's a roof law, which speaks of the basics of education. So, gentlemen, from word to word. Enough muddying, let's get the kids some textbooks. It will be a huge relief for all families in Serbia. Let me, do a good thing, write your amendment, gentlemen of the ruling majority. We'll back him up. Say that all the textbooks for children in primary and secondary schools will be free of charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20469	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20470	Dear President, as we have already said, the textbooks will surely be bought according to the country's financial potential in the future and there is no dilemma. So is the ride of the students. However, the amendment is not acceptable for these reasons. Just to say one sentence that I deny that I did not flee from the court dispute and call for immunity, I was not afraid in The Hague of Najs, let alone the king of the bankruptcy of Sasa Radulovic. Only one title from the press - Police comb the king's bankruptcy, caught with the bankruptcy fan Sasa Radulovic. It's a finished quote. One daily, April 14, 2011 I can talk about it here for two hours. I also have a court sentence in which he's been fined with 100,000 dinars, but he's also been denied his license. Thank you very much. For the sake of truth, knowledge and conduct. (Saša Radulovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20471	Did he mention you?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20472	Name and last name. Thank you. So, the list that is quoted as "Kurir" in 2011. That lie about me was given by Mladjan Dinkic because I caught him stealing. As for the esteemed MP, yes, sir, I caught him stealing, so I stopped him and his agency from licensing the bankruptcy directors, who were at the time dealing with corruption. When a manager does his job and grabs the thieves and sends them to jail, he gets control. So you can check that out, but you voted very well for me and you were very pleased when I was Minister of Business, so there's something wrong, sir. So, as far as the trial is concerned, of course the gentleman escaped the trial, because for all these things he's saying there's no evidence for them, so he can't show up there. However, citizens should know that all this empty story serves only once, to avoid talking about how it is possible to get textbooks for all children, that there is enough money in the budget for it. The ruling majority for some reason that is inexplicable, does not want to accept it and cannot look you in the eye, dear citizens and tell you – we will not adopt this, but tell you about it, we will in the future, some other time, there are plans, words are cheap, gentlemen. After five years with words of action.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20473	The 15th amendment was submitted to the same text by Marijan Risticevic and Marko Atlagic. Do you want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20474	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20475	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20476	I'm giving up my explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20477	Thank you. A letter from LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to the 15th amendment. The amendment, added after Article 15a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20478	Thank you. Once again, let me repeat for the citizens a very important thing. Today we are discussing the Law on Fundamentals of Education. This law should lay down principles and rules that will apply to the sublaw. It will also apply to all other laws that have been passed in this area. That is why this law really includes a provision that says that education is the right of a child, means not parents to educate children, but a child when born in the Republic of Serbia, should get some rights guaranteeing society as a whole, guaranteeing the budget. Among these rights should be the right to pre-school education, without any participation of parents, means fully covered by the budget. It should be a right to basic and secondary education, but not only do they not have to pay tuition, but they should also be given textbooks, pens, notebooks, all the resources they need to work, including strings and everything else that exists in high schools. Also, to provide children with transportation. That local self-government pays for transportation, that's for some rural environments an impossible mission, because they don't have enough money in the budget. This is exactly what we can predict with this law. It's a simple provision. There is also a part that speaks of quality, let's say that we limit the battle of children that we have in our departments, to be a maximum of 20, that our children get quality education as their peers, young people who have fled from the country because of their poor government and who receive such education, i.e. free textbooks and transportation in the countries of North America, the EU. This can be paid. There's money, only the government spends money on things that aren't in the interest of citizens, not things that are vital to all families. We've been listening to stories for five years. Finally, the time has come for you to move to action, to move the government to action and finally do one thing that is in the interest of all the families. The citizens are watching you. We're waiting for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20479	Marianne, you have no right, you've wasted group time. On the 16th amendment in the same text, Marijan Risticevic and Marko Atlagic submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20480	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not going to count again on how much a bankruptcy manager who is also an American fugitive, how much he missed the figure and for the sake of more efficient work I'm going to give up further discussion on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20481	Please, who's running the session here to make a deal. No, the word has Srdian Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20482	I suggest that the injured member of the 107th National Assembly is the dignity of the National Assembly and, please, the chairman, to establish order at the session because we have been having a flagrant violation of dignity for the last few minutes. Now I, as an MP to the opposition, must stand up to protect the highest state authorities, because here the MPs, with the moss, which is paradoxically, the ruling majority, have brought constant insults and not at the expense of the opposition MPs, he is a secondary victim here, but at the expense of the highest state authorities. Please, speaking of what they said about MP Radulovic, that is all they claim if it is true, it was before he was Minister of the Government of the Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20483	This is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, not a replica. You have no right and no point. So, Parliament's dignity is protected by respect for the Rules of Procedure. The word is Marko Atlagic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20484	I'm giving up my explanation for saving time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20485	Thank you. Please, I didn't give the replica like I heard. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20486	In this amendment, I suggested that the entire member should be changed in Article 16 and that it should be said that the supervision of the application of this law is carried out by the Ministry in accordance with education policy. Why did I submit this amendment? Because the Ministry should actually do one thing about applying education policy, it should oversee the way this law is implemented, and the education policy is implemented. What does the Ministry do? It was copied in some of the other members of this law that I also tried to change, that it could interfere with the very educational process, let's say it would be appointed by the principals of primary and secondary schools. You know, it's totally inadmissible to have a member of the law or such an education system in which the minister willingly interferes in the work of educational institutions as he appoints directors. You know, we already have a lot of bad practice in some other public institutions, such as, say, public enterprises, where the government is setting up a director of public enterprises, and then these executives are hiring party personnel in these public enterprises. Public enterprises are full of such personnel. Now are we going to do the same thing in primary and secondary schools? So, first, the minister will appoint the school's party director, and then in time, the school's director will start setting up his party colleagues as a prize for the election campaign, for example, which happened in the previous six months. You've already destroyed public enterprises, you're going to destroy primary schools. Minister, you're not a party chamber, please behave accordingly. Don't let a member like this be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20487	Alexander Markovic. He gave up, okay. The amendment, which is added after Article 16a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20488	Thank you. The amendment that education is the right of a child, this is the only way for such an important topic to really come to citizens, to see that it is practically possible to introduce free textbooks, is to repeat these things, and today it was, indeed, and yesterday it was, and today is a chance for it. This is an extremely important topic. Five hundred and sixty thousand elementary school students, two hundred and sixty thousand high school students. Average household incomes are about 57,000 dinars. A set of textbooks for children cost from 10,000 – 17,000 dinars. This bill can't be done. Families barely make ends meet. Budget can solve this problem, and this is a practice in the whole world. In North America, in the EU children, our little ones who fled the country in the diaspora get textbooks there and it's no big cost at all. 0.23% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, half of what is given as a subsidy to "ER Serbia", 5-10% of the subsidies given to large foreign investors to open here with us, places for cheap labour. So this can be done. The ruling majority are avoiding this. If they don't want my amendment, they repeat they don't like it. For God's sake, they don't like the way it's written, so let them write theirs. "Enough is enough" will support them in this because this is the interest of all citizens, the interest of all parents. It's very important for the citizens to know, this is possible to do. There's money in the budget for this. All it takes is a political will that clearly doesn't exist. There's only a lot of words, an announcement about what's going to happen. But it's time to move from word to deed. Five years of talking, nothing's been done. No one's been processed. The textbooks can be paid. The citizens are watching you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20489	Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20490	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, no one from the SNS is for all children to have textbooks that they would get from the state, and even at the cost of returning those textbooks after school year to schools for the next generation. And I can say that it is not true that our children receive free textbooks in the diaspora, and it is not true that their parents fled Serbia because of the government of Alexander Vukic or since he participated in power along with the SNS, but because of a bunch of ministers who were before Alexander Vukic, who are the same as the applicant of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20491	Article 17 of the amendment... Are you done?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20492	I'm not finished yet. As the applicant of the amendment says – that we should take care of children, but first of all, it is the work of parents and children who should have any job and I would ask one other question – about each of us as the applicant put it, words are cheap, speech works. I'd like, at least one company he ran as a bankruptcy manager, to say which company, whose fate didn't end up being liquidated. Or, while he was a bankruptcy manager, the employees of the bankruptcy and their children were provided with textbooks, he had the right under the law. One more thing, there was a saying in the people concerning the vote that he was the minister of the Ivica Dacic government while the SNS also participated in power. It is, that good people are easy to cheat, so he cheated on those who voted for him in 2016, and now he's competing with invalid ballots.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20493	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20494	Replica. Thank you. Well, I've never robbed anyone, I haven't stolen a single penny. This is a really interesting argument, but it's a good thing we heard, at last, that the SNS does not support the procurement of textbooks from the budget. Mr. Arsic said so that citizens should know that SNS, the ruling majority, does not support the procurement of textbooks from the budget. To correct one thing that is incorrect in what he said – our children who escaped from desire with their parents in diaspora, North America, in the EU, we heard even in Botswana, get textbooks paid from the budget. There is no market for textbooks such as what was done in Serbia, and this market only serves to rob parents. So, textbooks get that parents know what it's like to start a school year and take your kid to school and get everything he needs there. Not only the textbooks, which get borrowed that year, must be kept, but also received notebooks, and pens and computers, get everything they need to work in these schools. This is something, this is possible in Serbia. No cheap rhetoric of this guy is gonna distract us from demanding that textbooks be obtained for all children. "Enough" will implement this in both Belgrade and Serbia. In Belgrade, for example, to obtain textbooks for all children in all primary schools, about three million euros is enough. That's the price of the mast, and for all the kids in high schools, two million euros, and that's your price of the fountain. Question for all citizens, are they more concerned with masts and fountains, or textbooks for children in primary and secondary schools? I think they're much more important textbooks, and that's why we're asking for this. This cheap story about someone stealing, you know what, you repeat a lot like a broken record, from word to word, here's a chance for you to do something for the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20495	You know how long it takes to discuss the amendments, if you want to eat time for all MPs. I'm saying something else, don't jump, be calm and listen to others, it's important enough. [[Saša Radulovic: This is a replica, something else.]] (Saša Radulovic: And I take care, thank you for your concern. ) The MPs approach me and ask how much the debate is, and it says in the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, you know, your group doesn't have time anymore. Take care. There's time in another movie Don't yell, don't yell. [[Saša Radulovic: This was a replica.]] I'm really working under difficult conditions, and I'm looking for an unfettered internship. The word has Dragomir Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20496	Honored presidents of the Serbian Parliament, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are in front of small screens. As for this amendment, Mr Radulovic, of course it is very easy to suggest something that does not exist, which does not exist and be a hero in his town or in his beautiful good Serbia. I've lived abroad for a long time, but Mr. Radulovic, so as far as free textbooks are concerned, that's not true. Our kids used to pay for textbooks everywhere and I went abroad and I knew what it was and it wasn't expensive, it was too expensive, but we were paying. So all these schools that exist, Western schools, most of them are based on these very commercial grounds. Second, speak - the people are watching us, so of course the people are watching us. That's why I'm surprised where your cheek is and how you're not ashamed to present such facts that specifically degrade you, disabling you and putting you there in a place where you should be. It's America. Go there, you've advocated the bombing of Serbia, the killing of our children. (The People's MPs of the MPs' group are getting enough: shame on you either. I should be ashamed to be in this house with you. That's why I should be ashamed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20497	I ask the MPs to speak to me, not to respond to provocations and to speak of amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20498	I apologize to you, President. Can I go on? Normally, each of us has the right to be angry when he's hit. Because being in America, Germany, and coming to Serbia after ten years and offering nothing new to your citizens, at least something, but coming there because you lost your job, you lost credibility, if you ever had it, you come to Serbia where you're looking for a job, listen, I can at least guarantee one thing, which I'm going to provide you with a job, as soon as we start building two million square meters. You'll have gold shovels and gold picks in your hands.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20499	Thank you. (Dusan Pavlovic: Replica. There's no replica, let's move on. According to the Rules of Procedure, I refer to Article 27. Members of the 17th Amendment were submitted to the same text: Marijan Risticevic and Marko Atlagic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go, MP Rističević. (Dusan Pavlovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Don't yell. One minute. [[After a break.]] I'm gonna have to make warnings, I can't run a session. Think about it. Indeed, I will apply the Rules of Procedure. Those MPs who want to communicate with the president of parliament, who does not want to -- do not want to. I'm asking MPs, especially the heads of the parliamentary groups... (Marian Risticevic: What are you threatening me for? Ambassador Risticevic, don't react to their curses, please. I will have to, in order for the session to have a current session and to discuss the amendments strictly to apply the Rules of Procedure and to share sentences, give notices. The other language obviously doesn't understand. I'm sorry. It is addressed to all, and MPs of the opposition, there are and who want to use, at least a little time to get to talk about the amendments, when the ten hours are up. I'm not guilty of this debate. On the 17th floor, the People's MP, Marijan Rističević, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20501	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have not contributed to anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20502	Ambassador, just about the amendment. Hold on.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20503	By amendment, no matter what they threaten me. In order to calm the situation, I'm giving up an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20504	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20505	In order to calm the situation, I'm giving up an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20506	Thank you. The 17th was jointly submitted by Milorad Mircic, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20507	We've tried to fix this member a little bit, although the whole law, the bill, has so many shortcomings that it's simply an impossible mission. Yesterday was a kind of discussion and it can be entered or entered into. Of course he's enrolling a parent in preschool. Parents are legal advocates of the child. Besides parents, there are no other legal agents, I'd warn you. You rhetorically caused a problem with these words – the second legal representative, the second acting on behalf of a minor child and protecting his interests, and he is not a legal representative, these are those who, with individual legal acts, exercise parental rights, they are, above all, guardians. That's where you misused this term, unnecessarily used it. However, I draw your attention if this bill, the bill, is not back to work, it will be inapplicable, it will be applicable as long as there are subsidies and there are opportunities to take some of the funds from European funds, but when those funds disappear, this law creates a set of systems that the country's economy cannot finance. One more thing the billmaker forgot. You forgot that the right to education, the right guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, is a right. It is a right guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia, a right that applies on every square millimeter of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. And if you take, or you take the right to appoint directors of institutions, I believe you have that right, then you have no right, no opportunity to share the competence of education with local self-government and any institution below the state level. You are also responsible for programmes and for the functioning of education, and you have no right to burden local communities who do not have the means to finance what is the obligation of the Republic. That's the basic lack of this bill. The Republic guarantees these rights. This right does not guarantee local self-government. Self-government can ask about something that's education plus, something that's above what's mandatory. You've mastered jurisdiction, shared responsibility, and apparently you're wondering about everything and everything. We will come to those members later, if we come to those members at all, where you demonstrate with this bill that you do not know that there is a Law on State Administration in Serbia. You're the one who messed up what organs are in the ministry, what special organizations are, what jurisdiction is, what is a detour. Simply, this bill is so badly done that sublegal acts can't be corrected here and that you finally understand MPs, you don't decide here on education, but you decide on the system, about administrative matters concerning the exercise of our children's rights to education and all those who are in some way asking and participating in education, and these things you've recently solved by the bill. You're the one who made up some senses. You're inserting the term "competence." Well, what's that? Knowledge, ability, experience? Well, where's that? Where's the senior grade? Well, if you had taken a song from Ljubivoj Rsumovic "Au what a school is good-looking", then you would have understood what an educational system is.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20508	The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Nemanja Sarovic. The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, any law must be clear, precise and unequivocal, the Law on the Foundations of the Education System would have to precede that. But it's not like that. Article 17, which we have submitted to the amendment, speaks of enrolment of children in preschool institutions, and this where we intervened in this amendment refers to the preschool preschool programme, and here in this attitude 5 you are talking about - if administrative measures are accidentally skipped that the parent has the right to enter his child and there should be a point, i.e. a preschool institution, whose founder is local self-government, the Republic of Serbia or the AP is obliged to enter that child, there should be a point, and this should be "no matter the whereabouts of parents", i.e. "other legal representative" should be deleted. This isn't clear. Does this mean that the parent of a child from Koceljeva has the right to enter a preschool facility in Zemun or Old Town? This is what we need to erase. Mr. Minister, there's one more thing I need to tell you. You've been talking about a public debate about this law. We have nothing against it, but leave a little more time for the MPs. There is one more thing, this is only an upgrade to what Mr Krasic was talking about. You have transferred many responsibilities to local self-government, and there are local self-governments that several parents, not many, have referred to conduct a court procedure to compensate for transport costs for primary school students. Do you know there are such schools? Do you know that there are schools that have undivided and combined departments? You were in one of those local environments, you were in the home school, so this time I invite you, and we're also putting you on the check, you and the chairman of the Committee on Science and Education, to schedule one session at a local self-government in LJubova, to see that everything isn't like in Belgrade, that it's not all like in some other places. It's not Love's exception. The entire middle Podrinje, the Sword, and part of the Kolubar County, not to speak Goldiborski and so on, have such a situation. Let's deal with the team a little bit. Try to see what can be helped and done. Here, you have one school that has a decades-old tradition, and it's being shut down, there's no longer the possibility of teaching in an undivided class, it can turn into an experimental example, or an experimental attempt at teaching, or maybe instead of these trips that our party president was talking about, which should be forgotten at this point, until the state comes into a slightly better situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20510	Parliamentarians: Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 17th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20511	Thank you, President. In Article 17. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina has submitted an amendment to include the national councils of national minorities behind the words - self-government, or those of the founders of pre-school institutions. I see that all of my amendments that I have endured, as far as the numbering and national councils of national minorities are concerned, have answered that the Law on National Councils of National Minorities provides. But I simply don't think there was a problem here too to include national advice, like some who are either founders or have some of their obligations and rights in education, in that education and education system. I do not understand here how you replied that the amendment would not be accepted "because only public institutions are obliged to enroll every child for the purpose of attending a preschool preparatory programme that is free of charge in those institutions". So if the founder is a national minority council, then the preschool program is not free. That's how I figured it out. I don't understand your answer. I'm saying, if you had answered me in that sense that it was regulated by the National Councils Act, I would have made it clear to me, but here, if the program wasn't free in those institutions, it just didn't make sense to me, so please explain to me what you were thinking.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20512	The 17th Amendment was submitted by Tomislav Zigmanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20513	Thank you. Like the previous amendment, this one wants to point to one inconsistencies when it comes to incorporating minority rights in this general law on education. Namely, in other segments, especially when it comes to involvement in decision-making processes, administrative and other bodies. There is also a big problem in school institutions not to recognise the right to establish education and education institutions. I will only say that these sectoral laws that regulate the issue of national minorities allow for the possibility. We have seen that the Government also adopted the amendment of colleagues from the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians and in Article 90 of this Law will also allow national councils of national minorities to be founders of school institutions, educational institutions, and in that sense I think that my intensity, and when it comes to Article 17, and when it comes to Article 4, which speaks of who has the right to free education, is further now strengthened. Namely, if the national councils of national minorities under the amendment adopted by the Government can establish both pre-school and educational and educational institutions of primary, school and secondary education, then I think that the right of pre-school education in institutions whose founders are national councils of national minorities should be free of charge. In this way, not only will this law be incoherent within itself, it will not be in line with the sectoral law on national minority rights and the competences of national minority councils, but it will question the constitutional principle under which the level of human and minority rights cannot be reduced in Article 20. In this way, it seems to me that because of the inability, i.e. Invisible that even preschool institutions, whose founders are national councils of national minorities, cannot carry out their basic work free of charge for those who enroll, that in this way and the constitutional principle that I spoke of earlier, which is prescribed by Article 20. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to be questioned. In that sense, I appeal once again that the entire section, which will result in the adoption of amendments to Article 90, by representatives of the Union of Duchy Hungarians, will be implemented consistently and fully, because there will be contradictions which, I fear, will cause more damage.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20514	The word has a minister, Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20515	I'll just take a minute. The 90th is adopted and national councils of national minorities can be founders of institutions, but not of the public. That's the only difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20516	An amendment to which Article 17 is added after Article 17a. MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. The 18th amendment was submitted by Marijan Risticevic and Marko Atlagic. Here's a word from Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20517	I will not explain this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20518	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20519	Because of the rationality in the work, I'm giving up an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20520	An amendment to which Article 18a is added after Article 18a. MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 19th amendment was submitted by Marijan Risticevic and Marko Atlagic. Here you go, the word is Marian Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20521	I won't explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20522	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20523	Because of the rationality in the work, I'm giving up my explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20524	Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Belačić and Milorad Mircic submitted the 19th amendment together. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20525	With this amendment, we wanted to draw attention to the fact that there is a Law on State Administration in Serbia concerning both the education system and the most directly related to the ministry. I have to explain to you that all those actions or those transactions financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and education, the state, is financed from there, implies that the Law on State Administration must be respected. As the authorities of the state administration exist with us, ministers, the ministries, the bodies of the ministry and the special organization, and someone here has messed everything up in this law. Since it is financed from the budget, from the tax, you guarantee the same rights both in the Shop and in Belgrade. So, on the transport of children to school, and on heating, and chalk, and tables, and a trust fund, and levels and quality of knowledge, you guarantee it all. This is the law you've accepted. I support you in that and I draw your attention, Mr. Minister, if it is the founder of some institution, some schools in the Republic, it funds. The founder can't be AP and local self-government. Either the Republic is the founder or a private natural or legal person who wants to gain a profit. The state when it is established by these institutions does not gain profits, is not a winning organisation, but rules on public institutions and public services are applied. That someone on behalf of the ministry will sign and be a minister is an individualisation and personification, but an organ is a ministry. The Ministry is an organ, and you're obviously saying - 22 subjects were wondering about this bill, so then I get what's like this. More midwives, more snotty kids.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20526	The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which is added after article 19, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marijan Risticevic and Marko Atlagic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20527	I won't explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20528	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20529	Because of the rationality in the work, I'm giving up my explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20530	Thank you. The amendment, which is added after article 20, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marijan Risticevic and Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic submitted. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20531	We'll save time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20532	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20533	Because of the rationality in the work, I'm giving up my explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20534	Thank you. The amendment, which is added after article 21a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marijan Risticevic and Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic submitted. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20535	I won't explain it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20536	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20537	Because of the rationality in the work, I'm giving up my explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20538	The People's MP LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to the 22nd amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Tomislav Ljubenovic, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP Tomislav LJubenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20539	Thank you. The SRS Parliamentary Group has submitted amendments to Article 22. Law on the basis of the education and education system. This amendment refers to the enrolment of children, more specifically to the duty of the school to inform the parent, or another legal representative and the unit of local self-government about a child who is not enrolled in the first grade. When enrolling children in the first class, it is often noticeable that parents want their child to go to a school that they consider to be better than a school whose territory belongs to them. These situations have been observed in cities, while most parents in rural schools are forced to enroll children in a school closest to them, to avoid long journeys of children, as children walk from certain villages to schools located in another village, due to lack of bus transportation or bad bus lines. The question that this raises is the question - why is it allowed in certain schools to have such a situation that parents and children simply run away from such schools? It didn't happen overnight, it was a process. Those in charge of the education system should pay more attention to just such schools, in order to improve the quality of teaching and other educational-experienced content, so that the school is not avoided in the future. Take this SRS warning seriously. This is one of the reasons why Dr. Vojislav Seselj told you that you needed more education inspectors. It's still not too late to fix the situation and I think this is an acceptable solution, in this case and instead of 15 to put a realistic three-day solution in this case of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20540	Thank you. The amendment, which is added after article 22, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Both MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic submitted the title above Article 23 of the amendment. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20541	Thank you, President. Respecting the Rules of Procedure, under which we have only 10 hours to discuss amendments, knowing that we have many more important amendments ahead, especially in the light of the amendment proposed by the Committee to the Higher Education Act, which you, ministers, have accepted on the Committee, which in fact allows certain colleagues to accredit their universities, although all competent institutions have been prohibiting them for 10 years, because there is no time for all amendments, but this may be illustrating to your relationship with our amendments. The title above Article 23 reads – The registration of foreign citizens, persons without citizenship and the search for citizenship. We are shocked that you do not know that there is a voice change in Serbian which is called the transition of L to O and that is said to be the seeker of citizenship, not the seeker of citizenship. You, in your explanation of why the amendment is refused, are giving a crazy explanation, where it says – the seeker of citizenship, because this term here is stated in one. So, foreign citizens are in the crowd, people without citizenship are in the crowd and only one citizen who appears in this title here in unity. Now I ask you, is there one citizen in the Republic of Serbia, so this member refers only to him, or is there a little more, and your associates or you from some vanity have a problem accepting a change that suggests that you have made a pure grammatical mistake and that someone in your ministry, which is a terrible thing since the ministry is working on, does not know the changes in the Serbian language. Whatever the reason, accept this, don't be ashamed. You'll have nothing to worry about if you accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20542	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MPs Marijan Risticevic and Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20543	I'll save time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20544	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20545	I'm giving up my explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20546	Thank you. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miljan Damjanovic, Nemanja Sarovic and Petar Jojic. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20547	Time of authorized representative. We have suggested that Article 23, paragraph 2, be deleted, because it is obvious that this attitude is not written because of what you wrote in the first part of the sentence. You said: for children and students of the 1st position, for exiled and displaced persons, refugees, immigrants and children and students who have been returned to the country on the basis of a readmission. So, Minister, ask, I guess you know that yourself, and consult your associates, do you realize that children who are going to school now, who are just leaving or who are already going to school, that they can't be banished, or displaced faces, or refugees? They were born from parents who were once refugees or exiled persons, but those children are Serbian citizens. You don't really think about those children, nor did you write this attitude because of those children, but because of the migrants. We are the SRS' stance on migrants, children of migrants who should now go to school clearly and precisely said. We said you should organize their English class. We said you should have special wards for them. We said that through learning English and German, you prepare them to go where they, or their parents, really want to go, because none of them want to stay in Serbia. Don't force them to do that. You're not just this member, so a good part of the law has shown that you've actually translated this bill, that it's a bad translation, and the attitude towards the MPs is really surprising. You, Minister, show your willingness to communicate with the MPs, but what your services have done to you, I do not believe that you have seen this, the answers, the explanations for which certain amendments of the MPs have not been accepted. Imagine, he says, the amendment cannot be accepted since the proposed solution introduces segregation in the formation of the department, which, of course, is absolutely incorrect, which is contrary to three points. What do you consider to be the National Assembly and the People's Messengers? Otherwise it's something with three points. Well, imagine that's how we communicate with you. This is absolutely inadmissible. Pay attention to your associates so this doesn't happen again. Let me ask you, Minister, it might be more appropriate in that second bill, but as things say, we are not going to get an amendment to that Higher Education Act, just to ask you, is it true that the New Market State University Rector, Mr Kostic, is abused by the fact that your friend is actively lobbying to shut down the University of Kosovo Mitrovica? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20548	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20549	He's my friend, like all the other lecturers. I've met a man since I've been doing this job. There was an opportunity to talk about the integration of the university, which I didn't allow and what I talked to all the deans myself. It's a question of influence. So you can make the suggestion, and I can't respect it. What my colleague Jerkov said just now will be appreciated through the technical directory. That's already been said, so I didn't answer for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20550	The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20551	Thank you, Chairman. I certainly suggest we reject this amendment. I think it's about one crazy intention. According to the Refugees Act, Article 1, it is clear who is today defined as a refugee in the Republic of Serbia. It says -- these are persons who are due to events from 1991 to 1998, due to events from that period and their consequences, escaped or exiled from the former Yugoslav republics in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, etc. Therefore, Serbia currently has 29,400 refugees from the territory of the former Yugoslavia. It's not true that they're former refugees' children from an earlier period. So there is a population of nearly 30,000 refugees currently registered in the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I am sure that this attitude applies to them, not to people who migrate today and who do not have refugee status in the Republic of Serbia. I think it's a bad interpretation of the law, in order to discredit it, so I certainly suggest that the amendment be rejected. In addition, I have already mentioned, when it comes to people who are citizens, this mainly refers to our countrymen living in the environment. Namely, only in Republika Srpska and the Federation at present, in consulates, there are 50,000 requirements for the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia, and they are all of our countrymen in the environment. This member is indeed something that is a good solution in this law and we will support a member as he is in the original form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20552	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20553	First of all, Minister, thank you for your reply. There was no reason for you to act as if you were angry with my question. Being a friend to you is no problem at all. I was just asking if it was true that he was abusing friendship. You said exactly. You said you wouldn't allow it, and that's good, and please stay that way. As for this little earlier debate by a colleague who explains to me that he has a refugee in Serbia 20,000-30, I was saying that the children of refugees are no longer born in Serbia. The refugees are now at this moment their grandparents. Unfortunately, sir of the ruling coalition, most of these refugees today live on collective centres and on your shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20554	The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20555	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, the whole member, and especially attitude one, is a problem for us. Foreign nationals, stateless persons and citizens' seekers are enrolled in an institution i.e. in our preschool and school systems and exercise the right to education and education under the same conditions as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We just can't understand it and agree to it. They cannot be the same conditions for those who are citizens of Serbia with those who are foreign citizens, people without citizenship, citizens. First of all, do these faces know Serbian? How, then, can they participate in any educational system in Serbia? Where, abroad, when you come to any other country, can you immediately have all the same rights as the citizens there in enrolling in school? Of course you can't. Of course you have to learn the language. Where'd you get that from? As far as Serbs from the region are concerned, they need to be separated from the special solution treated by their case. They should have the opportunity to school here and function in the same way as Serbian citizens. You're introducing here in attitude 2, which we're asking to delete, migrants as a category that should be treated in this way by our legislation. What exactly is this about? The migrants themselves have found themselves in our country, not to stay in it permanently, but to move on. So we need to enable them to do so and to help them or to move on to the desired destinations or to return to their homelands when conditions arise. They don't intend to be here for years. So they don't need the education system in that sense. A Serbian school that, possibly separated classes with Serbian language school and schooling, if they stay longer, but is it your idea to keep them longer by EU order and to build the largest asylum centre in Europe from Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20556	The word is from MP Vlado Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20557	Dear Presidents, Mr. Minister with Associates, Honored Fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, this amendment to Article 23. The draft law on the basis of the education and education system, regardless of the proposal of the Dveri parliamentary group, should not be adopted. Compared to Article 89 of this Law, which speaks of the activities of institutions in education and education and the possibility of enrolling foreign citizens, or migrants, they exercise the right to education and education under the same conditions and in a manner prescribed by the law for Serbian citizens. In that sense, I'd say there are 120 migrants in Sombor right now, 95% of which are families with children, from Syria, Iraq, Iran, Palestine and Afghanistan, from where there are the most. The children of the school age from first to eighth grade are 27, from first to fourth 12, and from fifth to eighth grade 15. The boy is 16, and the girl is 11. Compared to the experience so far in Serbia, regarding the education of migrants, and you yourself know about the Shid case, and that this would not happen again, in Sombor, in Subotica and Kickinda, the method of education of these children is applied so that it does not take place at school, but takes place at reception centres. For the time being, the translator in the reception centers is gone, but teachers, teachers, have arranged to go in pairs and at least one of them speaks English well. Children are mostly familiar with English, so they translate to Arabic for those who cannot follow and take active part in these workshops because of their ignorance of English. From the school administration, school directors received a proposal, as far as the work programme is concerned, that they have one flexible approach. They don't have to pass on information like our children and start teaching, first of all, physical, musical and visual education. The children accepted these workshops perfectly and they take place three times a week on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, one and a half hours. After two weeks of working these workshops, the children are too pleased, they are eager to know, and their parents and they themselves asked to extend their teaching to every day, to make it more extensive with far more information and information, just as our children in schools get. So, migrants demand that they have one more functional education and are very interested above all in natural sciences, especially in mathematics. In Sombor, teachers and teachers from two schools on the territory of the reception center train migrant children. They are the “Ivo Lola Ribar” school where they train children from fifth to eighth grade and “Brothership and Unity” where teachers share their skills with children from first to fourth grade. Since centres are held for a short time, so, two, three, or the longest six months, migrants are not very interested in learning Serbian. The Commissioner for Refugees and Local Self-Government provided the complete teaching material needed for the organisation of workshops, as well as the necessary teaching resources, as well as technical support in organising teaching activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20558	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20559	Thank you, Chairman. Although I have no custom, I suggest that this amendment is not accepted, because this is indeed an attempt to deny the right of children who are not of their own free will in the Republic of Serbia that this time they have to spend here is dedicated to their education and education. This really, not only is it an inhumane proposal, but it's an anti-civilization act and I'm stopping at these comments, because I'm afraid they deserve a lot of more of these epithets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20560	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20561	Mr. Minister, this is a scandal. I think you have now made sure that you do not manage Serbia's education system. Are you trying to tell me that in different schools in Serbia, they have different attitudes towards inclusion and migrants? That you are in Shido making parents go along with our children and if they do not know the Serbian language, and that in Subotica, Somboro and Bačka they can behave differently and that there is no integration of migrant children into our education system, but they are provided with special education in migrant reception centres, which is understandable and correct. I support a colleague who spoke of it in favor. So no one here speaks against the children of migrants, absolutely, they should have all the rights, they should be allowed to learn the language they want to learn, but in their migrant reception centers, not in our education system. Is it possible, Mr. Minister, that you allow one school to work in one way and impose parents and force migrant children into our departments, and in other parts of Serbia, and only a few dozen or hundreds of miles from Srem and Backa, you allow that school, or that education for migrants, to last in migrant centres and not in our primary and secondary schools? So, what's this about, is this a banana state? Don't you know what happens to you in schools in Serbia? Don't you know that in one school like this, and in other schools like that? So who's working behind your back, Mr. Minister? It can't be how you do it. Nowhere in the world will anyone enter the country, not know the language of the host country and enter the education system. Mr. Minister, this is nowhere on the planet, you cannot enter the education system of the host country until at least a year you have learned the language of the host country. It's a elemental thing everywhere in the world. Why are you pushing migrant children into Serbia's education system when they don't know Serbian?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20562	Time. Minister Sarcevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20563	Not all levels of education are the same. When we talk about college education, of course it takes a level of language to continue listening. For decades back, when individual smaller families came from different parts of the world, in elementary school it's customary to go to the lower class when they learn language. They, by the way, even a lot of other kids know better math than ours. For example, many Asian countries have these advantages. What's different and what you're probably not informed about is that certain migrants are so-called migrants. Hungarian lists. That's what they let in a little bit, in those camps they're under Hungary's regime. It remained in Serbia's regime.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20564	Thank you, Minister. The word is Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20565	It is obvious that the SNS cannot and will not support the amendment of the Devere parliamentary group. It is important to know, when you write – migrants are wiped out, what does that even mean. We all know the old rule in the legal system and in all systems of the world, the paper suffers everything. So the paper suffers hatred, the paper suffers hate speech, suffers intolerance, but it is here that migrants' children are required to be wiped out of Serbia's education system, a country where they have not found their own will. I don't know how someone who comes out of the neighborhood, and that's Chuck and the surroundings of Chačka, suddenly turned into a person who has no tolerance for people who have escaped from war, especially children. I think they're kids, kids. Whether children from Serbia are born or born in Afghanistan, Syria, where they kill their parents and their neighbors, where they cannot live. It's terrible when a child from Afghanistan living in a refugee center, in a migrant center, call him whatever you want here, has more sense, no matter what he doesn't know Serbian. He doesn't need to know, understands this environment with his soul, heart and eyes, for the troubles of other children of Serbian origin, and then draw, organize an exhibition that tries to help this other child who was fortunate to be born in Serbia and live in peace. It is not clear to me how someone, five, six MPs, can sign for such an amendment and stand behind such an explanation and forget what their grandfathers did when World War II was here, in the area where they hosted hundreds and thousands of families from Slovenia who did not know the Serbian language. How did that get forgotten? My family hosted the Slovenians, we don't know where they are. If anyone's listening or having a correspondent, I'd like to know what's going on with their grandchildren. We hosted them, and I'm terribly proud. It is a terrible thing to say, I am very proud of the Serbian people who have always shown their souls in the feast of people who have fled the wars and come here to Serbia. I'm proud of Serbia who showed a really big heart, and it's what the whole world sees, because we didn't build wires, we didn't stop those people from coming to our country. Whoever reads article 23 of the bill we have in front of us has no illusion of what it says here. Article 2 clearly states – children who do not know the language in which educational and educational work is performed or individual software content of importance for continuing education and education, the institution organises language learning, preparation for teaching, supplementary teaching according to a special instruction provided by the minister. He'll learn Serbian. Is that what you're most concerned about, that some children from Serbia, from Cačka, Stancic, Gornja Trepce, I don't know from where, to meet another culture, another civilization, will make some friends? Is that our country's biggest problem? Is this the biggest problem of the end of the MPs who have signed this amendment? I'm really proud that I don't belong to a minority of minorities who show intolerance to migrants. Minor minorities, statistical mistakes or those of people who are seduced by such speeches, so they fear some foreigners who do not yet know Serbian. When you refer to this America, let me tell you, when you're calling, I don't know, I don't know, that Canada, either, I have an example from my family. The child that was brought to America immediately entered the class with the other children and learned English. When parents came to ask how the child was progressing, worried, maybe it didn't work out, not talk about school, they said excellently, the children received it, learned English. It's an example from America, not what you're saying is that in foreign countries, someone is holding the children of migrants and those who are for economic reasons, and most of all because of the war injuries they've suffered, they've fled their country. We're not gonna help them move on, we're a tolerance company. We're a country that's not afraid of strangers, never afraid of them. It's the quality of our lives and our society. I say we hosted the Americans, I speak again and I remind the MP who submitted this amendment, so we hid them in our homes in your area so the Germans wouldn't... (Alexander Martinovic: He collaborated with the Germans. No, he wasn't born. ... So they wouldn't be found by the occupiers, to save their lives, hundreds of American pilots. We didn't force them because they didn't know Serbian and yelled go further, to be found by the Germans. It's about the amendment, it's my understanding of your argument, where you're creeping on children who don't know Serbian. We will not support it, we cannot support such ideas that our society should be and our children should be ethnically clean, only to associate with children who know Serbian language and to despise everything that comes from beyond. The MP is the father of two children, imagine one day something happens with Serbia and we're going to run, and someone says don't accidentally bring him to school, because he doesn't know the language of the country he ran to. Let's be human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20566	Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. ) (Ivan Kostic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to a replica. You have made a political point, Mrs Gojkovic, also very argumentative. I think everything was very correct. You are not misread, nor did Mrs Gojkovic insult you. (Bosko Obradovic: How am I not misread? I can only give an injury to the Rules of Procedure, Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20567	Chairman, article 107 has been injured. – offensive terms, Article 109. – the same cursing and offensive expressions. Chairman, you always lose your authority when you're chairing so much, it's amazing. Parliamentwoman Gojkovic says we speak with hate speech. Martinovic says we're Ustashas. They mentioned a Jasenovac last time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20568	I have to stop you here for just a moment. I'll let you carry on. What you're saying is simply not a material truth and it doesn't make any sense what you're doing. Please proceed in this tone of damage to the Rules of Procedure. This is because of the citizens of Serbia and all of us sitting here doesn't make sense to say something like that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20569	When you will punish by warning, both you and the vice presidents, people from the ruling coalition who are constantly insulting the MPs of the Serbian Movement of the Dvora. Do we need to keep quiet here about the insults that are constantly being brought to us, and all we're talking about is an amendment and a member of erasing one attitude or one word? What's past the law, what's past the Rules of Procedure? So that lasts on a constant basis. You are already losing authority in this way, and this power will not last forever. So, as the father of three children, I have absolutely the right to stand up for my political views, because if we keep our mouths shut, what happened two days ago on RTS3 is going to happen all the time. So it's our duty to speak for our voters and our families. Do not interrupt and punish the MPs of the Serbian Dvora Movement.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20570	Thank you. Of course, that and when it's done it's for a reason. I don't think Mrs Gojkovic insulted anyone in the context of her discussion. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure Marija Janjušević. Sign up, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20571	Thank you, Chairman. I point out the violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 104, the speaker was misread and you were obliged to give him the replica. Ms. Maja Gojkovic, as one of the SNS' fists of impact, has not only no replacement as chairman, so she has to sit here all the time, because there are no adequate deputies who can bring order here, but also have to replicate Bosca Obradovic, because others are not frames. However, in that she does not need to insult us. I was called a woman, as a mother, but I know very well...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20572	You're replicating Mrs. Gojkovic now or you're looking for...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20573	No, I'm telling you that you've hurt the Rules of Procedure by denying the replica to the president of the Devere parliamentary group, which has become common here, but I can't help but look back at the fact that I've been called because I don't support the fact that the migrants and the children of the migrants stay here, I need to worry about them staying here and not worry about our children leaving here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20574	Thank you. Of course I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Gojkovic made only one good recommendation for a book called "500 forgotten", the bestseller is in America, so it is a good recommendation for reading, who has not read, about saving American pilots. Let's move on. By amendment, Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20575	I can't teach any MP group to Dwri, after a year and a few days, that I'm an MP. In order to be president, you must be the first MP, and then someone votes for you, to have the same rights as the other MPs. You know what, because of the inexperience of Parliament, Maria Janjusevic, I will only discuss the amendment. Forgive her, she'll learn. I have the right to speak on account of being an MP. I guess we understand each other now. Indeed, the fact that MPs have now abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so something like trying to replicate, it's all right, I understand them. They understood the message I wanted to say, they were afraid that Serbian citizens had heard a different opinion than theirs. They're against migrants, it's not just today about amendments to Article 23. It's a bill of law. For days, here and yesterday, we've been saying that they're against migrants, against migrants. Another category was there, but not to return to citizens of Serbia who are gay people. Now we have that to hate strangers. I'm afraid we'll go very, very far. I'm glad that some MPs broke up and realized that language had elements of hate speech. Therefore, I am extremely pleased and I hope that they will give up their discussion in this direction because we send an ugly picture of Serbia by saying that someone can think that there is a percentage of Serbian citizens who do not like migrant children. I am convinced that none of the voters who are experiencing circumstances, we have made him a little angry, so he voted out of some despair for a parliamentary group that is propagating this policy, will not tell you: "We hate migrants", "we hate children", "we will not let them go to schools", "we have become intolerant". Everyone understood me well, who had good intentions. I can't even make amendments like this that say that we need to separate the children of migrants from the natural environment. We're the only country that's introduced another degree of care for migrant children, and that's a foster home. We've gone more humanely than anyone else. So, kids who lost their parents, because parents managed to get to the north of Europe, or parents, imagine these tragedies, sent them to go first, and they'll go behind them. They were sent to go first, to enter Serbia alone without parental custody, without legal representation, without guardians, without parents, to enter Serbia on their own. We put them, as the only country in Europe, into foster families, so that we wouldn't grow up in camps, give them some heat and try, of course, through the procedure, to find their parents, where their parents are in northern Europe, or they stayed somewhere in refugee and migrant columns. I say once again, I am proud of it and thank you, Minister, which is what you, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, are taking care of children who have not lost their homes by their fault and who want a better future, as well as children of MPs, authorities or opposition, it doesn't matter. No one with common sense can vote for amendments that are required to be something else, because they are not different. They're children, like the children of most of us, who has them. Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20576	Thank you. We're moving on to the amendments. You'll get the word after the amendment. Vesna Rakonjac has a word. (Bosko Obradovic: Can't do something by amendment when it's a replica. You have no right to a replica. Vesna Rakonjac has a word. (Dragan Vesovic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20577	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, I would just like to say that this amendment is completely unacceptable for a simple reason, and to remind my dear fellow member of the Committee on Labour, who passed all those sessions of the Committee on Labour which were related to migrants, and which lasted from February 2015 until a few months ago, you know, if you were present or if you listened to what we were saying at these sessions and with international organisations and with the non-governmental sector and what measures we were taking to protect our population, but also a million migrants who have been through our country, as we have step by step promoted one system, the first system of security, so health care, so the foster care, which Mrs. Maja Gojkovic talked about. I would be surprised if someone else had submitted this amendment, but you, who were in the course of events, who you know that the Balkan route was closed in 2016, and that those children have been staying in this country for almost two and a half years, and that this country has ensured that the scientific and Serbian language and that they can engage in our education system, but I am surprised by even more than Mrs. Maria Janusevic, who was with us the report session of the Committee in Subotica, at the refugee camp and visited all those dear children, children who need a lot of love, a lot of warmth, but also education to continue where they left off. Thank you, Minister, for this bill of law. In Serbia, all good people are welcome. Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20578	Thank you. You absolutely have no basis for replication. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vesovic. (Bosko Obradović: The name and last name are mentioned. Yes, but not in a negative context, of course no one is. Please, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20579	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Now you've violated Article 103. The Rules of Procedure, which states that the MP has the right to orally point to a breach in the procedure of the President of the National Assembly if he considers that he is not in conformity with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, which was done at the session of the National Assembly, which is in progress and immediately after the injury has been done. After the presentation of the esteemed colleague, Commissioner Gojkovic, I advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I doubt you've seen me, because I have 190 heights and 110 pounds of weight, and I'm not exactly tiny, so I can conclude from that it's tending to be that you didn't give me the right to advertise my injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and I wanted to advertise then. Now, a member of 103 was injured and then a member of 104 was injured, saying that if spoken offensively about a national MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation is submitted has the right to reply. It is further said - if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or political party, whose MPs belong to the parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has the right to reply. Mr. Bosko Obradovic is the president of the Serbian Movement of Dveri parliamentary group. I am directly offended, because no one's children and no one's children I hate and is not at all the subject of the amendment that the Serbian movement...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20580	Don't talk about the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20581	I won't, but I'm offended and I explain what I'm offended about, but you're not even entitled to a replica and you're letting it work that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20582	Thank you. You have all read from Article 104 but not from what is essential, which is that the chairman has the right to simply define and assess whether someone is worthy of the right to replication in the context of the discussion. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20583	Dear President, I believe that you have just violated Article 104 because there is a position 3 on which only you decide whether anyone has a right to replication or not, especially what the right to replication is extremely disputable as someone understands the views and opinions of a parliamentary group, which are opposed to the views of the applicant for the amendment. Luckily, we're not the same. I was saying, I was expressing the political position of the SNS, that we are tolerated, that every migrant is welcome in this country, I was talking about the humanity of our society, I was talking specifically about the historical and civilizational aspects of the humanity of Serbs living in the areas from which the applicants of the amendment came. I'm extremely proud of my family, too, of my roots. I'm proud of Cacak and the surrounding area, all those villages, because they have historically shown how human and open they are. They were not educated people, and they showed that we are a people of tolerance and that we are always there to help strangers in need. I've cited examples of Operation Halliard. I don't know if they know anything about it. Two American pilots slept in my house, they didn't know Serbian, imagine that. One was a different color of the skin. In that Serbia, let me tell you about Slovenians who were stationed all over Šumadia. Where's that gone now? I'm shocked that my words are an insult. For me and my end, they're not. They're not for SNS. Not for most Serbian citizens. I don't know what the problem is, I guess I can say something.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20584	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20585	Mr. Chairman, you have, on several occasions, injured Article 106 who clearly state in Section 3 that during the speech of MPs or other participants in the search, there is no permit to throw away, interference by speakers, and any other procedure that threatens freedom of speech. So if someone here is constantly talking on several occasions that we hate children, that we erase migrants from Serbia, that I don't know what everything, we beat women and everything else, and you don't allow any possibility, basic, democratic, human right to freedom of speech and replica, then what we're talking about and what kind of session we can talk about. So, please, no problem giving them 57 times the word to attack us, that's no problem. Let us answer once. Make it 57 to one, but give it to us once. You haven't given us one, and they insult us and attack us all day, and that's the problem. You're jeopardizing our freedom of speech because you're not giving us the opportunity to defend ourselves against these attacks. So, it's just that when someone says we're against kids, it's not true. We've never been anywhere against children. You must give us that right to tell us what we have to respond to such attacks. Look out, it's a monster attack. So it's impossible for any of the normal people to be against any child in the world. So we're not against kids, let's explain what we're up against, so there's no public delusion. And it's not just us against it, this migrant crisis and the population and the housing, but half of Europe is against it. It's not just us, so let's explain what's going on, that's all we're looking for, one replica on 57 of their speeches.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20586	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think I did, and I think someone's seeing me, that no one's offended anyone. (Bosko Obradovic: No need. ) The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20587	Can I, by amendment, be allowed by the Devere parliamentary group or by you to hold a session, I'm not sure anymore. I am extremely pleased that the Devere Group of MPs has understood the message of my speech and that they are now trying 20 minutes to wash off the reasoning we have heard. Educational teaching is an extremely important aspect in this part where we are trying to send messages to Serbian citizens. What the Devere parliamentary group suggested is not good. The citizens of Serbia absolutely understood that. What I have presented as a contrasting argument why it is not necessary to vote for this amendment is the essence of the beings of the Serb people, welcome all. I'm sorry, they figured out the amendment promoters that they made the car naked, the letter to write something to the migrants is deleted, it kind of went away, but the word is the word. When you get up and explain and when you see your face with which passion you explain that migrant children should not be mixed in the same classes with children who are Serbs or Hungarians, or Slovaks, or Romanians, or Russian, or Bulgarians or Croats. Lucky for us, there are different things in Serbia. It's the beauty of our country. That's the difference. That's how we grew up. I don't know which generation the MPs who proposed this amendment belong to, but, fortunately, our society prevails in this tolerance. The sentence, now, of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that in Serbia, I apologize, in Europe, prevails with the idea that migrants are not welcome is also not true. We had a recent election in the Federal Republic of Germany, won by the party led by Angela Merkel. She won, she'll be the Chancellor. And those submittings welcomed the appearance in the Federal Republic of Germany's far right. That's true, not that in Europe, there's some kind of fear of migrant children listed here. In France, the idea of closing borders and the fear of migrant children has not been overcome. Where did she win? He won't win in Serbia either. You'll see. There is a choice in Serbia, and such amendments will never pass in our Parliament and in our society, and never the Dveri parliamentary group will be in a position to propose laws. It will be our end as a state if the Devere parliamentary group, one day, replaces the place and begins to propose ultimately right-wing, ultra-right-wing proposals to Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20588	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20589	I thank the chairman. I understand that sometimes you do not notice my 180 kilograms in a timely manner, but I must point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because you have allowed Article 103(6) to be injured first because, based on the obvious abuse of the Rules of Procedure, you have not applied the measures you owe, which is to impose the measures laid down in Articles 108 and 111 of this Rules of Procedure, and not only that, but in the course of the replica or infringement of the Rules of Procedure, I no longer know what has been done by the speakers, the term “treasure” for migrants is used. This is a violation of this House’s dignity, for it is known what the term “treasure ” is used for. Especially should someone who claims to have an education that publicly shows that they do. I ask you to apply the Rules of Procedure more consistently, especially according to the group of which you are expected and not to be too patient with them, because they instead of being tolerated, because they didn't mind when members of the LGBT population stood behind them, when they cried to the ambassadors of foreign states, to enter this assembly. It is to be expected not to receive the influence of Franka Peter and Ivan Pernar on his behaviour, on his steps in this assembly, but you are here to prevent it and to use this Rules of Procedure for what it is intended for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20590	Thank you. Time out for 60 minutes, we'll continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20591	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20592	It is about amendments to Article 23 of the first law, which has over 200 members. We have another law, which has 190 and I don't know exactly how many members. So we're doing a job that can't be done at this rate. I think a bunch of important proposals, smart or less smart and wise proposals, will fail because they won't be able to be thematicalized. We've wasted a lot of time, I'm just saying, I'm not transferring anyone, because we're all a little bit responsible for that, as if someone's answering key and important issues don't come to the agenda. I would later, if it were to arrive, behind the 100th member, talk about the need or the possibility of basic school being a state, to abolish private schools. It's an important topic, a controversial topic, as well as this to be a mandatory secondary education. But there won't be time for that, and we've been working on whether the representatives are legal or guardians, I don't know how long. On the occasion of the amendment, our proposal is regarding this member who has caused so much controversy, to help the state a little, ease, remove the burden, as much as is added only, after everything it stands for, after the 2nd sentence: "compliant with the possibilities". What does that mean according to the possibilities? I have the impression that this member, simply the government, the ministry is bound to do much more than the state can really do. It undertakes to provide language courses and additional and additional teaching for migrant children. That's not real. I just want in this way, with this little addition, not getting into big issues, not getting into how an immigrant crisis is solved, not going into what some other proposings intended, that simply, without any xenophobia, without any evil will towards anyone. It's just, I think the proposer here is bound to do something that we can't meet. Let the minister supplement, or correct, if I am wrong, whether it means that we are committed, or that the Government will provide teaching or language courses in their native language for migrant children. It's simply not realistic, so with this add-on I wanted to simplify it, let's relativize that commitment. We heard the case of Somboro. It's a very good example of how it's done, but don't make any more commitments than we can meet, Mr. Minister. So a mild relativisation would only contribute so much to say – we'll allow them to study and listen, have an additional teaching and preparation in their native language according to the possibilities. The school can't meet it, probably not even the Ministry. Don't be more Catholic than the Pope and to wash some biographies, or touch someone in Brussels or Berlin, it doesn't matter where or why, we simply accept something that most of the developed countries can hardly meet. So much for this amendment, and how to solve the migrant crisis and whether all seven, who warn about the problem of migrants, are a special issue. I didn't understand colleagues like that from the Dvora, I have to admit, it seems to me that it's... an interpretation of their proposal, but that's what they'll say. After all, it is hardly the Hungarian president, the Czech president, the Slovak president, the Polish president, that everyone is just as xenophobia and that they only speak in hate language when they warn of the importance of this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20593	I thank my colleague Vukadinovic. According to the amendment, MP Nenad Konstantinovic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20594	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SDS will not vote in favour of the Dweri amendment. We oppose the amendment and call on all MPs who vote against it, and we also call on colleagues from Bosko Obradovic to withdraw this amendment. He is the amendment aimed at preventing children and migrants from getting classes in Serbian language at school and additional teaching and to prepare themselves to be fully involved in teaching in our schools. This is one of the good things, a rare good thing that the ministry in this law...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20595	Comrade Konstantinovic, just a little suggestion, please. We are not talking about Amendment Dvora, we are talking about an amendment to Article 23, which was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20596	Yes, it is. The amendment to Article 23 was submitted by Dvora and you gave Maja Gojkovic three times to speak, you gave none of us a word, and Djordje Vukadinovic talked about the Dvora amendment before me if you listened to him. The same subject he's talking about, I'm talking about now. I invite Bosko Obradovic to withdraw that amendment, because I think it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20597	Col. Vukadinovic spoke very precisely about the amendment he submitted to Article 23. I'll make it up to you anyway. My question to you – do you want to talk about the amendment to Article 23, which was submitted by counterpart Djordje Vukadinovic?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20598	No, I don't. I was talking about an amendment submitted by my colleague Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20599	You can't get the word then.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20600	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20601	My colleague Obradich, you after the amendment? You have no basis for replication, you saw that I interrupted my colleague Konstantinovic, but you can, of course, by amendment. [[Bosko Obradovic: If you can't replica, then by amendment.]] The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20602	I absolutely support the amendment of counterpart Djorge Vukadinovic, from the point of view that our country cannot as its priority set up the schooling of migrant children who found themselves in Serbia. This country has other priorities. However, we are from the presentation of counterpart Maja Gojkovic, I understand what state priorities are when she said she would not help the migrants leave Serbia. What does that mean? That they'll help them stay in Serbia? While our children leave Serbia in the meantime. It's the essence of the SNS government, the migrants to stay, our children to leave. So that's what your problem is when we talk about this topic. We have a million refugees from former Yugoslav spaces. We are the largest refugee people in Europe today. Is it normal if we haven't solved the issue of our refugees, we're solving the refugee issue from some other space? Besides, we're not alone in it. The same position I am presenting here, today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has the majority of EU citizens, and across Europe there are political organisations that have an entirely identical attitude. Just look at the Visegrad Four, look at Poland, Slovakia, look at Hungary in particular, with whom SNS cherishes special relations with Viktor Orban, see how they have protected their borders from the migrant crisis. Indeed, in this sense, to cite some examples from the past when we welcomed Slovenians here. Yes, it's a great honor for the Serbs as a people of hospitality. The descendants of these Slovenes killed our soldiers in the tanks in 1991. Or maybe how we saved 500 Allied pilots? Of course we are. How did we get that back? By delivering the Draž General to communism or by being bombed by the Americans both in 1944 and 1995 and 1999. Let go of our hospitality that has returned to our ultimate evil. We're talking about another thing here. We are talking about this, as the distinguished counterpart Rakonjac says, that the Balkan Route is closed here and there is no further, that one of Serbia wants to build the largest asylum centre in Europe and that all those migrants who will not be allowed to join the EU remain in Serbia. That's what we're talking about here. Why did migrants come out of the EU on that migrant tour to Western Europe in the first place? Why, when they entered Greece, did they not go to Western Europe through Romania and Bulgaria, but go to Macedonia and Serbia? So, who intends to settle Serbia for migrants? In our empty villages, in our border belts, in our passive areas where there is no population. Is this the idea of the Serbian Progressive Party, to settle Serbia for migrants, and that our children, tens of thousands of them leave Serbia annually? No one in the Courts, and to repeat this for what time, has a problem here with the children of migrants who really aren't responsible for the fate that hit them. But who is to blame for their fate, you will not say about it – the NATO Pact, America and those who destroyed their countries, who bombed their peoples and why they do not now live in their countries. Can we solve that question? We can't solve that question. Let NATO solve him a pact that caused the tragic fate of all those children. Children here to be admitted, children to be maximum aid in every way, health care, every other. Educational – yes, in migrant centres to meet them, let them learn English, let them learn Serbian while they are here. And we help them go where they were going to go, which is, in fact, Western Europe. Why won't Western Europe take migrants anymore? So he's gonna put a burden on us so we can take in all those migrants who won't take in Western Europe? Is that what you advances want from Serbia? To populate Serbia with migrants and get our children out of this country and get our children to end up all over the planet. That's what Maja Gojkovic said. You won't help them leave, you want to help them stay, you want to protect, so, migrants. And our children who leave because of your authority, who will protect them?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20603	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20604	A member of the 107th Injury of the National Assembly, which was so obvious. First, I feel hurt, I believe, and everyone who looks with sympathy at a movement called the Yugoslav Army in the country. General Draža wasn't delivered to the communists. He was arrested and executed and rehabilitated here. The second violation of dignity concerns the speech of migrants. We are a nation where every other Serb migrant is. If we go through with this, every other Serb lives in the diaspora, emigrated, it's migration. Imagine if everyone thought and insulted the dignity of the National Assembly in this way and had to, under these economic circumstances, receive all those whom someone who thought similarly and insulted dignity interpreted and brought back Serbs here. You cannot particularly insult the dignity against migrants if we take that Libya and Iraq, those two nations, gave bread and sent tens of thousands of Serbs and some of them educated and children there. So, we who were migrants, which was wartime, which was wartime, which economically, with special attention we need to talk about. That's why this violation of dignity in this parliament, in a country where every other Serb lives outside, is unforgivable to me. I'm not asking to vote on this, but this is a flagrant violation of dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20605	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20606	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I can generally agree and it is normal to have different opinions and views. I don't mind how colleagues from other parliamentary groups see it and interpret it, but there's something that bothers me. It bothers me when someone unwarrantedly calls the ministry, the government, the SNS that she wants to do something she doesn't want to do, that she wants to move in with our abandoned villages. That's not entirely true. I'm from one neighborhood, it's Black Grass, where the big problem is that they're not inhabited. And I'm trying, along with local self-government, to try to get our people back to those hearths, to develop a little bit of that neighborhood. Then when we hear something like this, I just can't believe it. I can understand that we are political opponents, that we have different goals, that each of us wants to get as many votes as possible, but in that fight we must not unjustly attack each other. This problem for migrants, and therefore for the education of their children, is a problem that we all have to solve together. You're saying tomorrow you'll come to power, that you'll be that power. Well, that problem will stay with you. The Serbian Progressive Party did not bring the problem to power by coming to power. So, please, in your discussions, and all together when we're talking about different members here, let's make sure that the process of education and education is a process that we all have to cultivate and cultivate together, if we want to do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20607	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Gordana Komic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20608	One good news and one bad news about this amendment and the law in general. The good news is that the SNS and the ruling coalition defends the rights of migrants from the human rights point of view. There are few societies in Europe that do this today, and that's good for Serbia. That's why it's good news, as is the decision to enter into the law, which is otherwise missing by much, this provision. The bad news is that a total of 400 migrant children of 560 thousand children in all primary school classes here are used for sizzling, mocking and developing hatred for someone different. That's terrible. I don't know if any of us remember how horrible it is when we use that language against anyone else. I remember, and so I say that the good news here is that we defend the rights of migrants, any, anywhere, to get education, their children, 400 of them who will go further with their parents to educate here in the conditions in which our children are being educated. Don't make a disgrace out of it in Serbia. It should also be commendable for Serbia's pride. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20609	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Atlagic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20610	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, of course this amendment should be rejected, but I must say immediately that I am shocked by the statements of certain MPs when it comes to migrants. I can't believe any man in our country says that on the street, let alone MPs in the National Assembly, like two previous speakers from the opposition benches spoke very uglyly about migrants. I don't know if they know that Serbia is recognized in Europe and the world by the treatment of migrants in recent years? I don't know if the amendment promoters know, and they should know, that six thousand of our migrant children in World War I emigrated to European and overseas countries, and that only France educated six thousand of our students, mostly on its own expense? They shared the crust of their bread, along with our children. These migrants of ours during World War I became the greatest minds and political, if you will, between the two world wars, and they led this country. Besides France, there is Switzerland, England, not to mention the United States, Russia, etc. Therefore, Serbia is not what the previous two speakers from the opposition benches said. She has a real face that she's shown by treating just the present migrants. Furthermore, in 1916 and 1917 they organized an additional class for our children in our and French language. Please, we only return to quotes what has been done to us. It is not Serbia that the representative of a minor political party or an independent MP says. Serbia is what we are mostly talking about today in this parliament, regardless of the party. We must accept these migrants as our children, because Serbia has no tradition as two MPs from the opposition benches who spoke, Serbia has this better tradition. Let me finally say that I recommend that both MPs go to the Pedagogical Museum of Belgrade, see archival material and library, because one of the amendments was a librarian, to see all the archival and museum buildings about how much these countries I was talking about helped our children. If at least part of it, one percent of that material was read, they wouldn't have thought to suggest what they've suggested here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20611	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Marinika Tepic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20612	Thank you, Chairman. I think you've hurt Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, because you do not care about the application of this Rules of Procedure, as well as Article 107, that you have injured the dignity of the National Assembly by allowing the previous speaker to continue to talk about something that is not a subject of the agenda, but something that turns into a policy that not only risks entering the field of hate speech and tightness, as Col. Comic said, but dignity, not only of mine, but also of a large number of citizens who have been injured by us even before the break, and you have continued that practice after the break, continued to listen about the humane relationship between the representatives and MPs of the majority here towards migrants, which is to welcome. It is good that some people after 20 years and change have come to their senses and realized that fundamental human rights are unquestionable to all people, but the problem is that it comes from those who are our citizens born in this country, driven from their hearths, because they do not call themselves a ic in the 1990s and do not please allow further discussion to go into that tone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20613	counterpart Tepic, it is very interesting for you to note that at the moment when certain MP groups speak from the opposition's ranks you do not notice that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated in this way, but you notice when on the other hand, by the position, you get an answer to the question and findings that have been raised from the ranks of opposition MPs' groups. I don't think I've done any harm to the Rules of Procedure, because I have no intention of preventing the democratic confrontation of opinions in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that each parliamentary group has a legitimate right in the way it believes it should and should consider the amendment currently in question, which is an amendment to Article 23, which was submitted by MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Through his discussion, the debate of MPs, I do not want to name them, but those who came forward after him, certain questions were raised, certain findings were made. My intention, please, was not to prevent a democratic conflict of opinion and open debate and I do not see that I have hurt the Rules of Procedure in any way. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? Thank you. The word has been given by MP Djordje Vukadinovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20614	I respect the democratic discussion and the conflict of opinion. I don't think the discussion on this amendment has anything to do with the democratic confrontation of opinions, nor does it have to do with my amendment. I would remind my colleagues that this is about one harmless but non-essential technical intervention, and that just, not getting into the problem of migrants, how the problem is solved, who caused and all other interesting topics that could be the subject of symposiums or sessions, I said that the state, or schools, would do so according to the possibilities. So no one speaks hate. I'm repeatedly hurt and offended here, because I've been put in one context that I don't belong to, that I don't think of, or ever belonged to. That's why I said, "Don't drag me in, 'cause some colleagues are doing biography now and they want to be more Catholics than the Pope and bigger Europeans than I know who." It may be the echo and echo of a previous discussion, before the break and the previous amendment, but apparently someone did not read it, and those who discussed it here did not read it, did not know what amendment it was about. So it's just that eventually the ministry, or schools, have a maneuvering space, that everything that's written in a member of the law makes possible, including migrants. Of course I support and welcome every human measure taken on this issue, but only with a little relativisation, in line with the possibilities. Not to spend that little time on other, more important topics, I'm going to hold back now and I'm not going on about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20615	Thank you. The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Sreto Peric. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20616	Unfortunately, Article 23 is so crucial that many words simply make different synonyms, and then we come into this situation where we've been in less than three hours, approximately. I'm just asking a question - is this substance regulated by the draft law to Article 23 in what is called the basics of the education and education system? I have to tell you, this member here is no place. Just to remind you, since we're in the field of education rights, what can we legally regulate? Just a way to exercise that right and nothing more. If it's a foreign element, then the Constitution requires other restrictions. You put everything and everything in this omnibus article 23, so now everyone can interpret each of these words, these terms in their own way. Let me remind you, the question of the colloquy in our home, the refugees, the exiles, the displaced, it's settled by our positive regulations. Foreigners, even so far, have been able to educate children in Serbia, a foreigner with a permanent stay, etc. If there was a need to settle something, you should have arranged it with special laws – the Law on Fundamental Education, the Law on Middle Education, the Law on Higher Education. If it's this category that we now call migrants, then it's supposed to be regulated by some other law. This is how you unnecessarily caused the debate and unnecessarily introduced confusion and confused everyone in article 23, so that nothing can be discussed. I'm deliberately not reading our amendment, which applies to Section 3, where we're trying to make things right, and we know there's nothing we can do about it, because the law is bad. Your law is a mess. The law exists as long as there are opportunities to use funds from EU access funds, donations, etc., and as soon as there is no... The system here is too congested, complicated. Imagine, you in paragraph 3 make a commitment to the unit of local self-government, by the Law on the Foundations of the System, when it comes to a foreign element. It's something incomprehensible. I doubt this went to the Legislative Secretariat. I doubt you could get a positive opinion on the bill. As it is written, this is a bad translation of an even worse translation from the EU. I remind you once again, return these two draft laws to dorado, let some man take you there, who doesn't have to deal with these European terms and those bad translations and make two normal drafts of the law. This way everyone who answers the phone will be right and everyone's right and they're wrong. That's what you educators say – great work, but missed subject, unit.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20617	The amendment, which is added after Article 23, is added by a new member of 23rd, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20618	Thank you. The amendment speaks of education as a child's right and predicts that all children in all primary and secondary schools in Serbia receive textbooks paid from the budget. It's 560,000 students in primary schools and 260 thousand high school students. To obtain textbooks for all Serbian students in primary and secondary schools, about 0.23% of the Republic of Serbia's budget is required. That is less than half of the subsidies granted to Er Serbia every year. This cost can be paid. This would make children in Serbia equal with their peers, young people who left the country with their parents because of poor authority, so that our diaspora, in the countries of North America, in the EU countries and in all these countries receive textbooks. So when a kid shows up at school, when you take him to school, he gets his first day of school a set of textbooks that he borrows, keeps those textbooks for a year and is transferred to the next generation. Usually textbooks change every four years. So to introduce a system like this, this is possible in Serbia, that would be a huge relief for all parents. Average income, households in Serbia are 57,000 dinars. A set of textbooks costs between 10 and 17 thousand dinars, so if you have a second and third child, it's practically impossible for most parents, so some of them are in debt, taking loans to get children textbooks. So we can do this so that children in Serbia, as well as their peers, young people who have left the country, who live in the diaspora, get textbooks. The government should accept this amendment if they really care about you getting rid of your parents, doing something that is very good for all citizens and following the practice that exists in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20619	Thank you. The 24th amendment was submitted by Marijan Risticevic and Marko Atlagic. Here you go, Marian Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20620	For saving time, I give up my explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20621	Marko Atlagic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20622	For rationalization, I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20623	Thank you. The amendment, which adds a new member of 24a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20624	Thank you. So, by amendment to Article 24a, we are talking about that in addition to the textbook that should be obtained from the budget for all children in Serbia, all primary and all secondary schools will also be paid for transport for all students. This is especially important for rural municipalities. The minister spoke about it earlier, said rural municipalities should budget their own funds for this transport, which is too much cost for municipalities to bear. Most of the funds are withdrawn by the Republic, only a small part remains with municipalities, so this is something that should be done as a cost to the Republic of Serbia's budget. It would be a great help for both parents and those municipalities. The principle to which we are going is that education is a child's right, which means that all costs related to child education should be paid out of the budget, so they would fully meet the constitutional standard that says basic and secondary education is absolutely free. So, instead of throwing money at various foreign investors who are receiving unreasonable subsidies, and at the end of that employment growth, there is no spending on incompetent people who are practically not able to bring order into public enterprises, but are spending these funds on various and different partner projects, here's a good way to channel some of the funds towards what is important to all parents. There's a lot of talk about how important children are, how birth is a big problem, this is one simple example of how the government can say that our children are really important to us and that the budget is really going to stand behind all the kids getting textbooks, being paid for transport. That's enough, once he's trusted by the citizens, he'll carry out these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20625	Thank you. The 25th amendment was submitted by Marijan Risticevic and Marko Atlagic. Here you go, Marian Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20626	For more efficient work, I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20627	Marko Atlagic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20628	For more efficient work, I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20629	Thank you. The amendment, which adds a new member of 25a after article 25a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20630	Thank you. This doesn't get answers. The citizens are watching, so let me do it again. Education is the right of every child. We should get textbooks for all children in the Republic of Serbia, for 560,000 pupils in primary schools, for 260,000 pupils in secondary schools. This could be paid. There is no excuse not to do what is in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. For example, in Belgrade, to get textbooks for all children in primary schools, the price is about 3m euros and it is less than costing us masts. To obtain all textbooks for all children in secondary schools, it costs less than 2m euros and is less than the price of a fountain in Belgrade. I think it's much more important to get textbooks for our children than masts and fountains. The ruling majority obviously don't think so. They had a discussion here and among themselves in the afternoon, one MP said the SNS would never support the acquisition of textbooks, and the other said it was something worth paying attention to. They couldn't agree on what position to take on this. The textbooks should be obtained for all children and thus would bring our children into the same position as their peers, young people who have left the country, with their parents now living in the diaspora, in the countries of North America, in EU countries where textbooks are obtained and given children in schools, when you bring them to school. So instead of empty stories about how important Natalie is, how we want to help the village, how we want to help small communities, here's one simple way to help most families in Serbia. And pensioners would look forward to this because they know their grandkids will get their books and they don't have to take credit to pay their children what they're supposed to own, if education is really free and paid out of the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20631	Thank you. The 26th Amendment was submitted to the same text by Marijan Risticevic and Marko Atlagic. Here you go, Marian Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20632	Thank you, after the amendment. When is it so good in America, and then what did he escape from America to Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20633	Marko Atlagic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20634	For efficiency, I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20635	Thank you. The amendment, which added a new member of 26a after article 26a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20636	Thank you. The amendment is on the subject of education and child rights. Since the amendments are being rejected without any debate, without speaking about why, I must repeat them in order for the citizens to understand that it is possible to pass in the Assembly a law that is in their interest, which is not passed. All the stories about what was in America, my kids went to school in America and they had textbooks there. So at school, the most capitalist country in the world, you get a set of textbooks. I don't know anywhere in the world that there is a system in which parents are robbed as it exists in Serbia under the pretext of the textbook market. So, from the budget it's possible to get textbooks for all children in all primary and secondary schools, the bill is simple, the price is around 0.2-0.3% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is less than the "Er Serbia" subsidy given every year. So half that subsidy is enough to get all the textbooks. In Belgrade, instead of masts and fountains, the money can be directed towards getting textbooks. We also foresee in this article something that would improve the quality of education, for example, to limit schools, primary and secondary schools to 20 students. This would significantly improve quality. The minister agreed, but the government is not prepared to support one of these changes. Also, in preschool institutions, to limit the number of children per group to how many children can come to one teacher, to 15 to improve quality and, of course, to put the budget behind these measures. We also predict that school transport will be paid for all primary and secondary school children, so in Belgrade, for example, they will receive monthly tickets to transport on the cost of the Republic of Serbia's budget, in suburban municipalities to organise a special transport for all children, and that this is all on the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget, not on the burden of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20637	Thank you. Representatives Bozidar Delic, Verica Radeta and Zoran Krasic submitted the 27th amendment together. The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20638	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS parliamentary group has proposed that Article 27 be deleted. A bill of this law. We have submitted to both of these laws 98 amendments, and it is a shame that we will not be able to discuss each amendment until the end. I think that should be heard, we have a Rules of Procedure limited, and very soon will come the time when we will no longer be able to talk about the amendment at all, because it will be spent for some time, which is supposed to be the Rules of Procedure. It's a shame we won't be able to talk, talk first of all to the Minister about criminal provisions and transitional and final provisions. There's a lot that we think is interesting and we were confident that we could agree on a minister and accept some amendments, that we had the opportunity for some normal communication. We have said several times today that this law is actually a bad translation of a text, that is, this proposal. It is, and it shows this Article 27 that you believe, it absolutely means nothing. You say – education for work takes two years. Professional training and training shall take up to one year, in accordance with the prescribed, or approved programmes. Of course every education is an education for work, I guess, not the order it does. When we tried to see what you wrote in the explanation, and part of the explanation is an explanation of basic legal institutes and individual solutions. You then say nicely – Article 27 is prescribed that education for work lasts two, and professional training and training up to one year, in accordance with the prescribed, or approved programme. So, you gave us an explanation for the article, you just didn't split it into two positions. This is pretty pointless. You know, we're people who do this seriously, we read, we think about this, we figure it out. Then we see that you treat us like we're some kind of lower race than the ministry, so we can't, so you're going to cheat on us, and you're going to sign the same thing that's in the proposal. It's not a good relationship and don't do it anymore. I'm going to remind you again that when you answer why you don't accept our amendments that you need to tell us what these arguments are, because we explain the amendments to the argument and expect it to be answered. You said you did not accept the amendment because it does not comply with the legislator's definition of other forms of vocational education. Well, of course it's not in line with your commitment, which is why we've been putting up with the amendment, because we have a different concept, a different vision, a different definition, but what you're thinking one thing, and we think the other, is not just an argument to say what anyone thinks, but what makes someone think like this, and why others think that. We are also not clear in this proposal for a member where you wrote, here in the explanation that education for work, how long it takes and professional training to comply with the prescribed, or approved programme. Who approves this program and where is this program prescribed? It's not prescribed anywhere, nor is it here that approves it. So there must be some connection between each member of the law that the law would be one whole that could really be applied. We are still standing in the population to be the best, and given this number of amendments, and given this limited time for discussion, that you should pull this out nicely, to arrange both style and language and grammatical and of course essential, which is the most important, so that we can meet again nicely and discuss each other, but individually about each bill, so that the public of Serbia can first hear the views of all who participate in the work of this Parliament, of course and the government, because somehow it has become a part of the debate deliberately and consciously organised so that it is transformed into replicas, into injuries of the Rules of Procedure, etc., in which the SRS does not want to participate in this way. We don't want to waste our time in vain, but we want to discuss it specifically, and we do it, but somehow we're the only ones in this room who want to seriously discuss the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20639	The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20640	Just for clarification. It is likely that those who utter these answers may have done it clumsyly because the explanation of this article is in article 65. So the other forms are related to adult education, which belongs to the wider system here, work education. That's why they're called other forms. Of course, that's what the High Professional Education Council brings. There are three laws that are passed in the Assembly next month, amendments and additions to the Law on Preschool, Primary and Medium Education, where this is detailed, but it took an explanation, I agree with you, to make it more logical and to make it clearer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20641	Members of the 27th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marijan Risticevic and Marko Atlagic. Here you go. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20642	To give more time to this American tax fugitive of the law, I'll give up any further explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20643	The word is Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20644	Because of the efficiency in the work, I'm giving up my explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20645	Members of the 28th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marijan Rističevic and Marko Atlagic. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20646	For the same reason, I'll give up my argument.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20647	The word is Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20648	Because of the efficiency in the work, I'm giving up my explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20649	National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 28th amendment. The amendment, which is added after Article 28, was added by a new member of the 28th, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20650	You just skipped my 27th, but what do we do? That's the way it is. That's right, Mr. Krasic, about free textbooks. This is a very important issue for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The ruling majority obviously ran out of answers, so you are silent, including communication with Serbian citizens. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. The minister certainly knows that these things are like this in the world, that children get textbooks, that the maximum number of children per class is limited to 20, that there can't be more than 20 students per class. The minister also knows that groups led by educators in preschool institutions should not have more than 15 children. Unfortunately, however, it does not decide on this, or the government does not want to support the proposal to get textbooks for all children. The story that there's no money isn't true. There is money in the budget, only spent on things that shouldn't be spent on, and not on things that are important for all parents in Serbia, important for all children in Serbia. The children of our diaspora in North America, in the EU, get textbooks when they come to school, only children in Serbia have this radical system to pay 10 to 17 000 dinars per child per month, and this is paid by families who have 57,000 dinars. So those who can pay. The SNS obviously doesn't want to do that. The good news for Belgrade's citizens is that Belgrade's elections are coming, so we will be able to apply this, a solution to this proposal. In Belgrade and without the republican authorities, Belgrade will be able to pay textbooks for all children in primary schools and secondary schools because it costs less than masts and fountains. So these things are real, it's possible to do them. The SNS is just talking about how they care about children, about birth, and when it comes to bringing one measure that really helps parenting and parents carry financial costs, then they are silent and silent about these proposals. In the Belgrade elections, citizens will be able to decide differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20651	Members of the 29th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marijan Risticevic and Marko Atlagic. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20652	I don't know if, ladies and gentlemen, the mathematics in BiH in those years when an American tax fugitive, a law fugitive, graduated from a primary school, but it seems that it wasn't a mandatory subject, because he would have to know, that it was both an electrician and an American fugitive, from mandatory cases, and the amendment to mandatory items, I'm talking about it, would have to know that all those rights he's broadcasting at the moment, which he was denying when he was a minister. If he was a minister, he'd ask for tuition to be more expensive, and since that part of his body is no longer in the chair, he's now asking to be free. Since we got rid of him, fortunately, he is no longer a minister of economy, I believe that through increased economic activity we can achieve one day and those rights, but of course he will never be a minister of business again, because simply a man can't count and should be aware that only through increased economic activity can the rights be paid for, first you earn money and what the economy delivers, that money you take and spend and then the school can not only be free, but also equipment and computers and everything he asks for, and it costs 300 million euros. So far, money needs to go into investment, just to raise economic activity, to be more powerful and militaryly powerful and politically powerful in education. That is why it is best to raise investments, new technologies, new jobs, etc. But he was the minister of business and he doesn't know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20653	Thank you. No, you no longer have time to have only Dusan Pavlovic. (Saša Obradovic: Replica. ) Marko Atlagic, as the applicant of the amendment. (Saša Obradovic: Replica and Rules of Procedure. How violent you are. First, if we're going to do the truth, Zukorlic came forward before you, so don't complain. (Tatjana Macura: Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Just say the word. As a bearer, so I can run a session.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20654	Because of the efficiency in the work, I'm giving up my explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20655	Thank you. (Tatjana Macura: Rules of Procedure. They say to me, shame on you, someone who yells at me for days. Unbelievable. Muamer Zukorlic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Sorry to keep you waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20656	Injured members 106 and 107. Really, I can't help but react. Thus, the dignity of the National Assembly is not offended only when someone vulgarly swears, insults, or argues. This home and these people sitting here are being insulted all day, repeating this sentence, washing their brains about free textbooks. This is an insult to me, which I simply cannot bear. Of course, and all those citizens, poor, watching this transmission. Indeed, I ask the President of the National Assembly to respond to this. This is a blow to elementary intelligence and dignity, and it is not possible for every amendment to speak, of such a demagogue flossula, of free textbooks in each amendment. It is an insult to the National Assembly, to desecrate the National Assembly, and to insult the elemental intelligence and dignity of citizens. That's why I'm asking you to respond. And what we want in terms of cheap or free textbooks, so people all know that, but just to figure out how and when. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20657	Thank you. You're right. I've been trying to explain to the MPs for two days that they have to speak according to the amendments, they don't care. It's the hardest thing for me. The minority does, though, but they're so aggressive they're ruining the atmosphere. Tell me, Tatiana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20658	I would like to point out the breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 103. - The MP shall have the right to orally indicate a breach in the conduct of the President if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it shall be done at the session of the National Assembly which is under way and immediately after the injury has been done. I tried that a little while ago, but you haven't seen me again in the old good practice, as you don't see the DJB's parliamentary group on a regular basis. What I was about to say earlier, that he is a National MP, I believe that you have not listened very carefully, because if you had listened carefully, you would have heard that in the explanation of the amendments tabled by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic has not a single word about what this alleged amendment says. This is the constant repetition of one of these same manners, which is that time is used to explain the amendments so that people who have also been colleagues in the National Assembly will be insulted on a personal basis. Please pay further attention to the sound of the presentation of Ambassador Marijan Risticevic, or Professor Marko Atlagic, since most of them have not addressed the amendment in today's day. Even I'm not sure that Marian Risticevic could repeat what this is all about.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20659	Just sit down. (Tatyana Macura: why you interrupted me.) It's not worth it, it can't, it's forbidden by the Rules of Procedure. It doesn't suit you. Sit down. Don't insult the messengers. It doesn't suit you, really. So, I'm trying, if I can tolerate Sasha Radulovic not to talk about any amendment for two days except for the first one he submitted, and he talks about whatever he wants. That's enough, that's enough, everybody. Then I must allow it to other MPs. You're very sensitive when MPs have something to say that you don't like. What can I do for you? Maybe you're not up for parliament. National MP Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 29th amendment. He's not here. Member of the 29th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Let me hear the explanation of the amendment, because that's what Tatjana Macura asked for. It's strictly about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20660	Let me read the amendment. Education is a child. The condition for using this right is that the child is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia is obliged to provide funding to provide each child with preschool education fully paid from the budget without obligation, participation...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20661	Ambassador, you've missed the amendment, and I need to interrupt you in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20662	This is the text of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20663	Proposal for a law establishing a system of education and education.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20664	It's a 20-year-old... The amendment has been accepted and you cannot violently change the amendment in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20665	It wasn't accepted, you were wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20666	I didn't make a mistake, Article 29a. It's a good one.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20667	No, we didn't get to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20668	You read 29a.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20669	No, I didn't read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20670	You've read it. You have a stenogram. In the stenogram, you read ma'am.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20671	No, I'm not. Watch it. I'm sorry, it's nice to admit that you missed the subject, you missed the amendment. I understand what you're saying, but it's not 29a. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic jointly submitted the 29th amendment. Here you go. I'm sorry, you called as a transporter. I'm sorry. Here you go, Alexandra Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20672	I thank the president. We constantly potentiate the educational role of the school, and all MPs talk about how we should emphasize it, and in those countries where the educational role of the school is extremely important and expressed and in which it is nurtured, it has proved that just outside of the teaching activity there is great potential for the educational role of the school, meaning sports and other activities, some humanitarian activities, philanthropic, various activities that children have in school and out of school in the community where they live, environmental actions and so on. It has been shown that such activities have great educational potential and that these are exactly the activities that children outside of school need to learn and train, if we are going to raise the role of the school to take as something that needs to be strengthened. Of course, 36,000 dinars are paid by teachers with a tendency to reduce each time they spend money on Belgrade water fountains and masts, Er Serbia and other megalomaniac projects, and are expected to go beyond the teaching, out of school activities of children, probably volunteering, and therefore we suggest that all these extracurricular activities that have been proven to have great educational potential enter the working hours of teachers. We think it's the only way they're going to have a chance to live, that it's the only way they're going to have a chance to be functional because everything else is unrealisticly expected from underpaid teachers. It is unrealistic to expect them to lead their children in their spare time, organize these activities, and therefore demand that they enter into the working hours of teachers.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20673	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20674	I think it's common knowledge to the public of education, that they've all been paid by this obligation so far, because the teachers' working list and 44 teacher's working week lasts for decades, and that goes in a different way. There are typical ideal weeks when the kids are in class and then she's taken according to the number of teaching weeks. Then you have that non-type number of weeks, up to 44 out of 32 or 34 depends on how long the school year is when all of this counts as that seasonal job. It's not done then, but it's on the list and you have that time until 52 weeks for your vacation. So this is absolutely contained in both the yearly and all other visions. Here was the intention to be for children and not for teachers, because they overlap with each other, each has its own schedule, determine what other activities and programs are, not just objects. We've singled out the programs, because if you have all-day classes, and if it tends, you agree only on the strategy to go to the whole-day stay, then you have, say, activities that last 20 minutes and 30 minutes, maybe an hour, if there are some exercises, etc. So that was the intention. Of course we've come with the unions and seen this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20675	Do you have that amendment to give me? No one can find that amendment. I'll give you my word. I don't mind. It's over at 29. It says 30. There's nothing on 29. (National MP Sasa Radulović approaches President Maja Gojković, with the material and says, "Please don't deceive the citizens, read this. Don’t deceive. (Saša Radulovic: Here, it is your document. Read it. My document. I didn't make the amendment. (Saša Radulovic: Amendment 29a) I ask Ambassador Sasa Radulovic not to harass me. Stand back. I give you a warning about this behavior. There's been enough of this kind of protest and violence against the President of Parliament. Shame on you. Shame on you. Bring me the amendment that you filed and gave to the office, and don't yell and boast of your primitives here. This is not a picture of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, this is just a picture of you. By the end of the debate, bring in Amendment 29a, you'll get your word, and don't threaten me. You showed me the paper typed by the service, and you give me the amendment that you filed to get the word. We still have a few hundred amendments, why are you lazy like that? Come down and get it. You've got a hundred secretaries to get you somebody. (Saša Radulovic: How many secretaries? ) Who pay the citizens of Serbia, the truth works. Serbian citizens pay for your secretaries working here in parliament. So much for your demagogy. Parliamentarians Marijan Risticevic and Marko Atlagic submitted to the 30th amendment in the same text, with a correction. You have a chance to bring in the amendment for a few more hours to explain it, if you can. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20676	Ladies and gentlemen, given the amount of anxiety that's coming from there and since I can be at risk of being insulted and spit on again, I'll give up my reasoning.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20677	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20678	Dear President, I'm taking the time Members of Parliament, they've never had enough to get the extra education she's missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20679	Amendment 28, find 29a from the Office filed to get word. Is that hard for you? (Sasa Radulovic: This is the first time in history. ) Ask an assistant, paid by Serbian citizens from their taxes to go to the Office and bring your amendment in order for you to get the word. Serbian citizens pay it, earn it on the basis of Serbian citizens that "enough" has an assistant who should go from up to the Office, not only to enter parliament as last New Year's, so as to play a guitar with you on the cost of Serbian citizens. So much for your demagogy. Members of the Devere parliamentary group submitted together to Article 30 of the amendment. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20680	Mr. Minister, Article 30 speaks of the ministry's jurisdiction, and we have submitted the amendment to point 2. In fact, point 7 says -- the ministry is achieving international co-operation on the development of education and education systems, analysis and transfer of foreign experiences and European programmes and achievements. We just got assurance from you that the law is seriously written by a large number of lawyers, and we've heard some accusations that I don't believe are true, that the law is prescribed. Please explain to me what foreign experiences and European programmes mean? I can understand that there is something foreign to Europe, but for a country Serbia is foreign to both the EU and, as you say, the other side of the experience. So our amendment was to just throw out the word "European" and to remain "transmission of foreign experiences and programmes". I don't know why it was rejected, because this is how I'm going to stay convinced if you don't explain to me what the difference between foreign experiences and European programmes is, I'm going to remain convinced that this is just a mere desire for EU courtship and once Serbia's EU bid, which I normally have the opinion that I have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20681	The amendment, which is added after Article 30, by a new member of 30a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20682	The amendment is – education is the right of every child. The condition for using this right is that the child is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia is obliged to provide funds for each child to provide pre-school education, meaning kindergartens, fully paid from the budget, without any obligation to participate parents, and then that the Republic of Serbia is obliged to provide equipment, for pre-school, primary and secondary education, for all users of Article 1 and 2 of this article, and in particular, not only for textbooks, notebooks, pens and computers, means that all textbooks are obtained on the cost of the budget. The Republic of Serbia is obliged to provide transportation for all students from home to school and back completely from the Republic of Serbia's budget, without any participation of the parents of the users. This means that, no, local self-government, but the budget of the Republic of Serbia provides these funds, to provide funds for the feeding of all children, lunch, fruit and vegetables, so that the primary school department can have a maximum of 20 students, that in pre-school institutions one tutor can manage a group of 15 children maximum. These things are in the interest of all parents in Serbia, this can be paid from the budget. The cost is 0.23% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, there is money and that is less than half of the subsidy granted to Er Serbia every year for the incompetent management of the company. Therefore, this can be paid. The ruling majority don't even want to discuss this. See what kind of plays they make to avoid talking about what's important to all parents. The stories are enough, and over the head, to the actions of the gentlemen, an amendment to obtain textbooks for all children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20683	That's right, and you're the only one who can get 29 from the office. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20684	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I suggest that this amendment be not accepted for those reasons that the Government has stated in an explanation, and in some language we can say that we currently have no money for such a thing. Even though we've been listening here for hours to the same story by each amendment since the previous speaker with the same exact same explanation, and I don't know how long we're going to listen, the only thing I have to say, which would be meaningful, is that, a hundred times a repeated lie won't become true, because it's been repeated a hundred times. I would also like to suggest to you, Madam Chairman, if possible, even though you yourself have taken some steps in this regard, to pay attention when it comes out of what is the subject of the amendment and to compare us with some other countries, or to speak some nonsense, to simply react and take his word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20685	I will. We've mentioned it so many times, we're gonna hear from Melanie Trump. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20686	Gentlemen, both the ruling majority and the opposition, I'd like to ask you next, we're talking about amendments and we're wasting time endlessly. There are two before us, as they all call them, the roof law and we won't be able to finish even the first, let alone get to the second. Since I'm a man of practice, I'll try to tell you something. What does roof law mean, something everyone here used? That means next. Not only is he on top, because the house counts from the roof and the wall is built from the foundation. So if we don't set that roof right, we'll have the whole house for free, because the foundations will be unstable. That's what's happening right now. So, I would ask the minister, I would ask all MPs, and I am telling the citizens of Serbia, if there were no empathy here towards migrants, who were without mercy used by MPs of the ruling opposition, but only the divorce and spending of the amendment's time. Also, I would ask the opposition's MPs to have little understanding for the citizens of Serbia, if they wish them well, I hope they wish them well, like all of us, because the amendments are, above all, the amendments to the opposition. Give your colleagues a chance to get that education, for the sake of both laws, to get as many amendments as possible to process and explain to the citizens of Serbia why this law, as it is, is not good for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20687	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 37th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20688	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, when I heard the previous speaker - the term of the ruling opposition, I decided not to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20689	Thank you. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabranik. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Zigmanov. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. Does anyone want a word? Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20690	Thank you. I have submitted an amendment to Article 31 in which I add another authority of the school administration, according to which it keeps records of the penalties imposed on students' suspensions and of the professional teaching, psychological work of students during the course of the distance from teaching. This is, by the way, part of Alexa's law, which has been orbiting this assembly for several years and received a lot of promises from SNS representatives, especially the president of the previous assembly, who unfortunately did not find his place in this law. So, I've proposed several members that refer to Alexa's law's integration into this law, which are all rejected. Listen, please, to the government's explanation, which is why, for example, this amendment on the suspension of students of violence has been rejected. It says so – The amendment is not accepted because it does not comply with the concept of the Law on the jurisdiction of the school administration. So we say roughly - we reject this amendment because we reject this amendment. So, what's the concept of school administration then? You do not want to accept any amendment that has been filed in connection with the suppression or prevention of peer violence. And then you say -- that's not our concept. So your concept of peer violence is then fine, until there's some very, very complicated and sharpened situation for the child to die. Then you'll react? I think this is wrong. I ask you to reconsider all amendments relating to Alexa's law's integration into this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20691	The amendment, added after article 31, was submitted by a new member of 31a, MP Sasa Radulovic. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20692	Dear colleagues, MPs, I will once again appeal to waste this time rationally, because due to a united discussion, where we have very little, and I'm afraid we won't get many very important questions at all to mention. This is one of the most important questions. It's about the National Educational Council. The changes made to this law, it can happen, the many changes to the composition of the National Educational Council have changed the responsibilities of the National Educational Council and the way it is, the National Educational Council almost has no purpose of existence, because it decides everything by the Ministry. I would like to draw attention, especially to the fact that these changes, which are passed by this law, here may be the minister to tell us more about it, I hope that he will reassure me, but I think there is a danger that in this chosen National Educational Council, no professor of any state University, or university in Serbia is found. Here, just for a little while, we want to save as much time as possible. We're expecting the minister's answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20693	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 32nd amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20694	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, regarding Article 32, we have the National Educational Council for adult education. In this regard, he would send a professor, who had just spoken, who wrote, about this way -- to apologize publicly to him, is said to apologize to him publicly, so he would send the teacher to adult education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20695	The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20696	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected Mr. Minister with associates, respected fellow MPs and citizens of Serbia, is now a series of members of the law on the basic system of education, which regulates the jurisdiction, composition, way of choice and obligation to report to the National Educational Council and the Council on Professional Education and Adult Education. These are national professional bodies, which, by this concept of law, will be, more or less, fully decommissioned. So, the way they were elected was changed, the structure of their membership was changed, the obligation to report, and we specifically proposed by amendment to Article 32 that the National Education Council be returned to its obligation under the existing law, which is to provide once a year's reports on its work to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in addition to the obligation provided for by the new legal solution to quarterlyly report the ministry. In addition, we have sought to achieve such independence in the work of the National Educational Council, to compensate for their work, as so far, as in the existing law, is determined by the National Assembly, not by the Ministry, because of course, whoever determines the fees, it has the power of control. In addition, we also asked that the National Educational Council and the Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults, for the sake of transparency in their work and for the public about their work, be informed by providing information on their websites. I believe that these bodies are very important, we believe that the concept of the law, which excludes the entire professional public from the management of the educational system in Serbia, is in fact the collapse of democracy, and when jurisdiction is lifted from the National Assembly, then it is further a decommissioning of the National Assembly, as the highest legislative body in this country, and I urge the public to take seriously into consideration what is actually being done with this concept of the law with the National Educational Council, because the same thing is also done with institutions that are responsible for higher education, which is the National Council for Higher Education and the National Accreditation Body, which also, under the Law on Higher Education, will be fully placed and controlled by the executive authority, i.e. Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20697	Thank you. For the sake of the public, to read the letter from the office – National MP Sasa Radulovic did not submit an amendment proposing that a new article 29a be added after article 29a, but only the amendment to Article 29. It's a signature from the office. Thank you. Please keep that. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20698	Thank you. We do not want, Mr Sarcevic, to have the National Educational Council present to you a report on the work, but rather we want the National Educational Council to report on the work to the Assembly, because we do not want the National Educational Council to choose you, but we want the Serbian Parliament to do so. Because when we choose here the National Educational Council, then we talk about it here, then on the Committee we talk about, we see if the candidates meet the conditions, so here we exchange an opinion on who all candidates are, who should be elected, and that's what citizens look at, and they have control over who's elected to the National Educational Council. Your intention, Mr. Sarcevic, is for you to sit in your office, look at the list that someone sent you, choose who you want at the National Educational Council, and then the story ends. The National Educational Council for its work corresponds only to you who chose it, and in the meantime, as we see from the members who follow, what we will also talk about and you have authorized this National Educational Council that you have chosen, so now you will bring both plans and work programmes, to choose and approve textbooks, etc. You're having a lot of fun, Mr. Sarcevic. You said that I can't judge whether you are Dossetij Obradovic or not. It's a little tragic that you think of yourself that way, but it's already a matter of your self-experience and we can't get into it. However, we should probably be happy that with the National Educational Council, you do not do what you do through the amendments to the Committee with the National Council for Higher Education, where our colleague, former Mufti, persuaded you or persuaded you or persuaded you, I don't know, you will probably once explain to us what his arguments were to force or convince you and to accept the amendments that his university, which for 10 years cannot be accredited, will finally get accreditation. In the National Council for Higher Education, you can even choose your own members absolutely. There is not even anyone who suggests these members, but you can assess who the prominent experts are, without any criteria, without any rules. I suppose it will be experts who will agree that Mufti University can be accredited, so we will fight you and the National Educational Council and the National Council for Higher Education, because you cannot, Mr. Sarcevic, decide such things and cannot National Educational Council report to you and you cannot choose it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20699	You have a second, Gordana. Is there anything you can tell us in one second?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20700	It's not a good idea, Minister, never to choose better than yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20701	That's four already. Thank you. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by Branka Stamenkovic. An amendment to which a new Article 32a is added after Article 32a. He submitted to Sasa Radulovic. Members of the Parliament of the Dveri Group submitted together to the amendment of 33rd. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20702	Respected citizens, respected ministers, the Serbian Dveri Movement has given one amendment to article 33 on the composition of the National Educational Council, which has 35 members. Our proposal was to join the National Educational Council for one representative of Serbian educational institutions from the region and dissipation. The explanation you gave us is that the amendment is not accepted, because it is not in line with the concept of the Law on the composition of the election of members of the National Education Council. I don't know why out of 35 members of the National Educational Council, one representative at a time could not have been from institutions that have authority, from dissipation and regions? As you know, we have cases that are threatened with the right to preserve language in the countries of the region, and these are not the people who have gone abroad and enter their education system, these are the people who are members of the Serb community, who are indigenous to those areas. To cite only an example of Montenegro where 46% of citizens claim to be of Serbian origin, they have no right to study Cyrillic in primary schools. I would also like to give you an example of a serious society of education from Vienna, the Serbian-Cultural Society of Education, founded in 1902, in which membership is highly educated people, engaged in education and education. Why couldn't 35 members be one of those institutions? And we know that there are only two million representatives of the Serb people in the region, and it's estimated that in the whole world four million, so that's two-thirds. This argument absolutely makes no sense, and it is in line with the state strategy promoted by the Serbian government on the cultural unification of Serbs from around the world, especially from the region, where it is planned to bring integration declarations primarily in the educational and cultural fields between Serbs in the region, primarily Serbs from Serbia and Republika Srpska. If the state of Serbia is leading such a policy, why weren't you advocating the application of this policy in this law, and you have the opportunity to do so now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20703	The 33rd amendment was submitted by Vladimir Djuric. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20704	Thank you. So this is also one of the members of the Law on the Foundations of the Education System, which regulates the way members of the National Educational Council are elected. With this amendment, we have tried to save the National Educational Council, which will essentially be reduced to one advisory body that no longer determines and will not, which will give the Ministry its opinions which will be non-binding, which the minister may refuse or adopt. We believe they'll be rejected. So we asked for the amendment to the power to elect members of the National Educational Council to return under the auspices of the National Assembly. We asked that members of the National Educational Council continue to be elected to the six-year term, not for four years. Why are these two things important? First, it has already been said several times in the debate, when members of an independent professional or regulatory body are elected by the Government, then the minister takes into his cabinet, makes a list of wanted or similar people and forms an independent professional or regulatory body of them. When this body is elected by the National Assembly, candidates for membership in that body are discussed publicly. It is discussed in a plenary session broadcast on national television, it is discussed on committees that can also be seen on the National Assembly website in direct transmissions and in delayed recordings, and the public has the opportunity to be informed of what candidates are concerned. Why is it important that the mandate of such independent professional and regulatory bodies lasts six, for example, four years? Because we have a non-compliance with the term of office of such bodies and the term of office of the executive authority, and then it must happen that part of your mandate you have someone selected by the previous Assembly in your previous meeting, in which you were not the authority, but you were the opposition, and then you must, for example, have two or five years to suffer, say, Sasa Jankovic before choosing the protectors of your loyal citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20705	The 33rd Amendment was submitted by Branka Stamenkovic. The 33rd amendment was submitted by Dusan Pavlovic. Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20706	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, for the sake of more effective work, I will give up my reasoning, with an apology, because I did not know in my time when I was pushing for Mr Lipkovski that instead of work, he would commit himself to something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20707	Parliamentarians Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 33rd amendment. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20708	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, so we talked about this and the debate in principle. The ministry and minister of this bill want the National Educational Council to put it under their hat and put it under their command. They do so by choosing practically, or by referring to his proposal by members of the National Educational Council. The solution so far is that the National Educational Council is elected in the Assembly. Why is it elected in the congregation? That's why he would have the authority of Serbian citizens. In the Serbian Parliament, it was the representatives of the citizens and the Serbian Parliament who chose the National Educational Council as the most important body in the education system, as the body that should decide on the most important issues in the field of education, because we felt that this should be done by experts, not by the minister. Now the minister says - I will practically appoint the National Educational Council, it will be done by the government, the Assembly has nothing to do with it. Everything is placed under the hat and under the hand of the minister, therefore, from the school's principal, who will be elected by the minister to the National Educational Council. On the other hand, the responsibilities of the National Education Council are also changed. We are deeply against such a solution and ask that the solution that is in the current law be returned. We have detailed this in the amendment, and I think you can accept this amendment, and that you should have accepted it, because that is what all the MPs who participated in the debate asked of you in principle. Is it possible that everyone is wrong and that you're the only one who's smart? Is it possible that those parents who don't send their children to school for a month are wrong, and only the ministry is smart because they need to be replaced by a director? I urge you to reconsider and adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20709	Milan Lapčević and Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic together submitted to the 33rd amendment in the same text. The word has the People's MP Dejan Šulkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20710	Thank you. Article 33. The bill regulates the structure of the National Education Council and the draft law provides for a reduction from 43 to 35 members of the National Educational Council. The Minister seems to me, in principle, to be one of the reasons for the reduction of the number of members of the National Educational Council, has cited a recommendation or a mandate of the State Auditing Institution. That certainly can't be the reason. That savings can take place and be provided in some other way. You, ministers, given your competences, to my surprise, have reached and reduced the number of academic representatives, regular university professors, university representatives in Serbia, all other structures are, more or less, represented by increasing the number of representatives of representative unions from one to four compared to the previous legal solution. It's also strange that you put the number of representative unions, when it's a variable category. So there could be more, but there could be fewer, and I don't think it should be defined by law. Furthermore, as part of the overall takeover of competences by this law taken over by the Government, at lower levels, if I may say so, from institutions and local levels, this article also provides for the takeover of powers from higher levels, which is a lot of words here spoken of. So, instead of the National Assembly choosing the National Educational Council, it should now be done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In the position of the 12th member, the bill provides that the minister may apply for a discharge of a member of the National Educational Council unless he fulfils his duty. A member is scheduled to adopt a Rules of Procedure. I guess the rules of procedure will be more detailed in what are duties, so I think that the government and the minister, in addition to all obligations, and especially given the state of Serbia, there are really more important jobs than monitoring the work of members of the National Educational Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20711	The 33rd amendment was jointly submitted by Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20712	Thank you. Same thing again. You cannot, Minister, appoint members of the National Educational Council. You can't, because it's your desire to name them inspired solely by the desire to control them. That's what you showed when you replaced the president of the National Educational Council, against whom I've always been and said it was a shame for that man to ever be president of the National Educational Council. Your party praised him and said he was the best man for that function. The moment he rebelled against this law, when the National Council rebelled against this law, you replaced him. Another thing, here, in one of the views, at the end of this article, is who cannot be a member of the National Educational Council, and says – a person appointed, elected or appointed to the office of a state authority, a body of territorial autonomy, or local self-government, a person elected to the authority of a political party or body... We suggest adding a limit here – in the previous three years. Because your party's officials, Mr. Sarcevic, have a strange power, super-power to choose them at some functions where the laws forbid them to be, freeze membership in a party, freeze a function where they are, and suddenly they are not functioners, or party members, and then as if they're party members and as if they're politically colored, as if that doesn't apply. Well, it goes without saying, both Gasic and Jorvanka Tabakovic, these are all persons who are in the functions that the law prohibits them from being in, if they are party members. So let's just say that in the last three years, this guy couldn't have been in a party position, and then you're going to show us that you really have a desire to depolitize it. No, it is the Serbian Progressive Party that invented the frozen-function institute, so that those who can't be on those posts can find them. Accept the amendment to make it in the last three years, don't let people freeze so suddenly, because who knows who's gonna stay in your party?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20713	The 33rd amendment, with a correction, was brought together by Natasa Vukkovic and Dragoljub Micunovic. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic and Zoran Krasic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20714	We submitted the amendment, first of all, to draw attention. Mr. Minister, you've created a problem with mathematics at the second decimal. In this attitude where you say -- the government half of the members -- that is, how you say it here, 18, but half of 35 is not 18, and you have top mathematicians in SNS, and they know what 2+2 is. Mr. Minister, since you're in this position, let me explain one thing to you. The only person responsible, or most responsible for law enforcement, is the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the authorities of the state administration. They enforce laws. Education, selection and appointment of an organ is so-called Executive function. Since 2006, we've had a systemic error, too, that someone pushed us to have the National Assembly choose these and these organs. And it was a mistake. The National Educational Council, regardless of the number, will be president and 34 members, and should be in the government's jurisdiction. Why? Because it's an executive function, law enforcement. However, when you defined the National Educational Council, you had three functions – giving an opinion, giving suggestions, participating in. So you are making something that is the imitation of an institution that has no teeth. He has an advisory function. According to who? According to the government, because the government is its creator under this law. That's what this is about. We've been laughing sweetly these days at the explanation of your bill. There was everything and everything, so we decided that 48 is more than 60 in terms, so we read further, and then we came up with very interesting things. You see, in the public debate that you did, directly and through the Internet, a great contribution, and you thank them, they gave animal protection associations, the Association for Protection and Animal Rights "Klempa" Zemun. Here's your explanation. So you asked them about the basics of education and education. You received, for example, the opinion of this company Labris, a lesbian human rights organization, and some MPs were involved. I see you've written them all well here, mentioned them all, what that public debate looked like and who was involved. If I follow the logic of your bill, the promoter, you in this article, when you define the composition of the National Educational Council, you haven't said how many women there are. In that second Law on Higher Education, for a similar such advice, you have precisely prescribed that the Government must take care that half there, gender equality. Minister, take advantage of your authority, get these two laws out of this assembly procedure, expand this debate, to hear suggestions and opinions and make new bill proposals. They won't get out of the EU money. Mr. Minister, we're going to have to come to the field one day to manage public sector projects. Bozidar Djelic has burdened Serbia. You know, how much did he owe us? Two hundred million. Four hundred with other sources of funding. But, Mr. Minister, money is not spent across the state, but over the D.O.O., the stock company. The founder of this society is the Government of the Republic of Serbia. They took out these university professors for those centers over there. Since we are not going to come to that Higher Education Act, with what right do you force the obligation to finance the private initiative of Aleksandar Karadjordjevic for the centre that was built here in Belgrade? Keep an eye out, this is gonna drive somehow as long as there's money on the side. When all this is needed, this people from the budget to finance, there won't be any money, this won't work. That's our basic objection.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20715	Here, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to tell the predecessor that two plus two is equal to one and let him study it, so I'll see you at the next session. And I can tell him that two plus two can be zero and he doesn't think that he's just two plus two is equal to four. So much for today.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20716	National MP Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. Does anyone want a word? (No) Miletic Mihajlovic submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20717	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I spoke very quickly about this at the Education Committee. I hope I won't be bored if I repeat my amendment again, which refers to the inclusion of the Association of Music and Ballet Schools within the National Educational Council of Music and Ballet Pedagogues of Serbia. This follows the legal framework that gives space to vocational associations in the field of education to have their representatives. They have communities, though, i.e. The Community of High Schools and the Community of Professional Schools, but when it comes to experts from certain areas, then they are taken, we have seen in all examples, associations of a certain kind of educator, and especially as it has been in the current law. There's no reason to change that now, because then, by logic, things could, for example, be a community of chemical schools instead of the Chemical Association. Also, here we have the Association of Art Pedagogues, which is perfectly fine, and by that logic, it should also be the Association of Music and Ballet Pedagogues. A team before it covers educators from this area both in preschool and secondary education and in music schools, and in ballet and higher education institutions. Also, these associations participate in the creation of music arts programs and there is nothing more natural and logical than for this association to be respected here as part of the National Educational Council as well as other associations. This answer that's been given here is not adequate. I don't understand why it wasn't accepted. I'm not sure you've been paying attention to this. I thank you for what your attention was the moment I talked about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20718	I thank my colleague, Mihajlovic. The 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20719	I thank the chairman. Dear Mr. Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, in your previous presentation, I have heard that the status of the Librarian concerning the amendments I have submitted will be resolved under the legal act, so in that sense I understand the position of the Government and I am giving up the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20720	Thank you. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic and Milorad Mircic. The word is Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20721	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 33 of this proposal for a law establishing a system of education and education. As you can see, many of my colleagues from my parliamentary group and other parliamentary groups have submitted an amendment to this member of the law, which in itself says it is an extremely important matter. You all know that it's the National Educational Council, and I'm not going to talk here about the way it's called the Educational Council, that's a lot of words. First of all, I'm going to tell you about the composition of the National Educational Council. We have seen here that there are a number of associations that fill out the National Educational Council, of 35 members, and most of them are represented by the fewer of these associations that should make up this advice. However, the amendment primarily intervened at the end of this amendment, which says that there should be four members of this educational council from the ranks of representative unions. I am absolutely convinced that this is not a good solution, that there should be a smaller number of members of the National Educational Council, because they are simply not clear criteria and there are no clear criteria that speak of which union is representative. We have a large number of educational institutions that have no union organisations and are not unionally organized. On the other hand, these trade unions that we have today, not only in these educational-experienced organizations but also in most other organizations, do not protect, not to a sufficient extent, but literally protect the interests of the employees but primarily protect personal interests. That's how they protect the government's interests. The former trade unions in communist times, even though they took care of winter, heating, etc., for the poorest part of the collective they work in. Today, the situation isn't even like that. When it comes to schools, union representatives have a percentage of salary increases whose salary in some schools is even higher than the principal's salary, and it happens that more interest is in the position of union president than in the place of head of school, or other institutions. You are here in an explanation for the refusal of amendments cited as a reason for refusing amendments that the solution proposed by the law is more comprehensive. I absolutely and responsibly claim as a man who, for 33 full years, I work uninterruptedly in education, that the solution that I have proposed is a more cellular one. All these associations that are taxed here in this law have one representative at a time except the Association of the University of Serbia, and the unions that I told them not to protect enough employees' interests are given four seats. Mr. Minister, have you thought about, say, the University of Kosovo Mitrovica should have a mandatory pass, that there is one member of the National Educational Council. From this as a solution is given in this law, I really couldn't see it, and therefore I appeal to you to once again what I was talking about look at and analyze and possibly correct it, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20722	Thank you, colleague Saviæ. The word has a minister, Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20723	Just to respond to article 33, 32, and I'll connect 34 later. The number of members could have been unlimited, as many representatives wanted to enter it. So this is no honorable body. One of the reasons he goes to the government is that the National Educational Council was mostly involved in lobbying for certain professions. If we have now given the professions to take care of the professional part of the issue themselves, the role of the Union is to take care of employment and the rest. Of course, in our conversation with them, and as we pointed out the role that they have, they are all employees of education, so they have very many serious candidates, people who have doctored, mastered, I very much appreciate that they will give good representatives, but, well, it's simply some of that social interest, because it was mostly of interest in the group before, that it can't change the national plan and the programme, because some group there is lobbying and holding the position. So that balance existed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20724	Thank you. Here you go, pal Saviæ.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20725	Just for a little while. Mr. Minister, I believe you've done your best to make this law as good as possible. However, only through the composition of this National Educational Council, who deals with this matter, or whose activity during a long period of time, can only conclude one thing. We have here that as part of the National Council of High School Communities, a certain part of its representatives in this composition of the National Educational Council, which is not disputed. However, there is no mechanism that ensures that any professor of professional courses in primary or secondary school will necessarily come, or enter this National Educational Council, although you certainly have better information, but according to one of my estimates, the total number of all primary and secondary school educators is at least 30% made up of professors of professional courses, and there is no mechanism here that such people will become members of the National Educational Council, because from a secondary vocational school a professor of Serbian language, a professor of physical education or any other subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20726	Thank you. Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) A new member of 33a, an amendment adding a new member of 33a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted to the 34th amendment. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20727	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry I didn't get an answer about the previous member and our amendment. I believe that you will consider this suggestion, because this bill thus brings the entire cultural and educational space down to central Serbia, which I absolutely think is unnecessary and wrong, because both the Serbs from Baranja and the Serbs in the Kumanovo area belong to our educational educational identity. There will be an opportunity to discuss this in the amendments we have proposed under this law. As for Article 34. The Serbian Movement Dvori believes that the provisions that were in force in the previous regulation should remain the same, and you have thus authorised the National Educational Council and now, under this bill, it only gives its opinion on the Education Strategy. We believe that this will bring down the very quality of the Education Strategy at all levels, because it literally controls everything from cleaning women in public enterprises to the highest scientific institutions. This law will again lead to people who have authority and integrity in the matter of university education resigning or being replaced, as the president of the National Council for Educational Education has been replaced, respected academic professor Aleksandar Lipovski. That is why we believe that the proposal of this law is unnecessary and that politics is put above the profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20728	Thank you. National MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted to the 34th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20729	I'll save time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20730	Thank you. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, therefore the new SNS proposal has completely demoted the National Educational Council, not only has the Government appointed the President of the National Educational Council, while the Assembly has done so before, but the National Educational Council has been demoted by the decommissioned powers of the National Educational Council. The National Educational Council no longer decides on programs that determine what is taught in primary school, what is taught in high school. It is now decided by the minister and that is why the minister says with this proposal – the National Educational Council will be the advisory body of the minister. So there is no further question of the National Educational Council, but he advises the minister, and the minister can respect that advice or disregard the advice. If he doesn't respect it, he doesn't care, he decides how he will, no matter what the National Educational Council thinks, writes or suggests. We think that this concept is not good and our concept differs entirely from the concept of SNS in which the minister and ministry is all, decides on all issues, decides on appointments of directors, decides on the appointment of the National Educational Council, decides on programmes, and no one in the profession has authority just so the minister can do everything. Please think again, to restore jurisdiction to the National Educational Council, so the body in which the experts are located. And not everything should be a day-to-day policy, and in education, nothing should be a day-to-day policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20732	Thank you. The 34th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20733	Thank you. So we continue to discuss a series of members of the Law on the founding of an education system that regulates the way of choice, membership and competence of the National Educational Council. So why isn't this the law on the basics of the education system, why can we call this a law on the control of the education system? The National Educational Council, the National Council for Higher Education, the National Accreditation Body, will all be placed under government control through a change in membership structure, through a change in the way of elections and through the release of powers that will all be transferred to the hands of the Government. We asked the National Educational Council to return to the National Educational Council the powers to identify and adopt the things that the body has adopted in the education system under the existing law, which is that the National Educational Council, rather than the Ministry on the basis of a non-binding opinion, adopts standards on education education education, proposals for changes in final exams, the basics of pre-school education programmes, the national framework for education and education, part of the plans and programmes for secondary vocational education and adult education for general subjects and the basics of the educational programme, etc. So if you don't want the National Educational Council to bring this thing to you, but you want it to just give you a non-binding opinion, you can put it out. What do you need the National Educational Council for? Disband him and hire those people at your office, nothing will change. We will no longer have the National Educational Council and it will not be the first independent, professional institution you will spoil, ruin. I am obliged to tell the citizens, the National Educational Council in Serbia has existed since 1880. By this law, this body will practically become completely pointless, you can completely disband it and keep you similar workers and hire you in the ministry. You have managed to corrupt the professional institution that has existed in this country since 1880. So the stone would be broken too.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20734	Thank you, colleague Guric. The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20735	Thank you. I don't know, Mr. Sarcevic, why you stopped talking to us. It's very important for us to hear what you think about these amendments, since we've been under the impression that you haven't read the arguments your associates wrote, because these arguments don't show us why the solutions we've offered are unacceptable to the government. So, not only will you, others have said, choose the National Educational Council, you will completely disenfranchise it. You're taking on a large part of the jurisdiction of that National Educational Council. We at DS are confident that you have no capacity to bring in curricula and programs, no capacity to choose and plan textbooks, no capacity to do all these things. It's unclear why you're giving yourself so much credit that you're capable of doing it. With this Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, this law serves to attract all authority to yourself. The Law on Higher Education, on the other hand, serves that those who for ten years cannot accredit their colleges now do so with your blessing. You should have told us when you came to this assembly three days ago, Mr. Sarcevic, that these laws of service were done. You should not have pretended to implement some reforms, you should have said – The Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System will give me all the power to seize myself, and the Law on Higher Education will allow Muamer Zukorlic to accredit his university which for 15 years cannot be accredited. It would have been fairer if you had told us so, so that we know that we are talking, and not that the committee adopts at seven in the morning some amendments that change the essence of the laws that you have passed, which are exclusively going towards it, firstly, that you put your paws on accreditation and secondly, that everyone who has prevented Muamer Zukorlic from accrediting his university is being expelled from the accreditation process. Don't cheat on us, Mr. Sarcevic, this assembly doesn't serve that. What you are now trying to remove from the eyes of the congregation believe that it will not go unnoticed. Either you start talking to us about what we're proposing or we're breaking up because this is how we talk, and you keep quiet, what it says here has nothing to do with what's going on really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20736	I would like to thank my colleague Jerkov. Comrade Zukorlic, you have a basis for the Republic, you are mentioned twice in the presentation of colleague Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20737	When someone doesn't have political ideology, methodology, identity, then they need an opponent. Of course, I don't understand why I was chosen to be that opponent to help someone achieve some of their identity. Definitely, for a year and a half, this gentlemanly relationship hasn't produced any results, so I'm gonna have to hit the gas a little bit and answer. So there is no doubt that it is something that I do not understand what the background is, but what I am disgusted with is the fact that the university was founded by Zoran Djindjic, so the president of the party to which Mrs Jerkov belongs. I don't understand how much that suicide goes, that the last and only thing, though, in Sandzak, is positive, which is proud of those citizens of that university and the so much fighting at that university to show that it exists. I really don't get it, and I won't get it. I'm sorry, here, there are some witnesses here, such as Mrs. Komic, from that time on, unlike Mrs. Jerkov, who later came, we know where, we some know and how, through whom and through which, but it's all her thing, but there's really no point in insulting 2,500 students, hitting on their dignity, causing confusion. I would ask the DS to stop killing and not deny the actions of Zoran Djindjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20738	Comrade Zukorlic, you also mentioned in the replica a colleague of Jerkov and she has a basis for replication. Among other things, you mentioned DS, it is an authorised representative on this agenda point, so it has a basis for replication. But you also mentioned Mrs. Komic, so both have a basis for replication. Here you go, colleague Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20739	I don't know if anyone can explain to counterpart Zukorlic that when college has no conditions to be accredited, it can't be accredited. It's a very simple truth, I don't know why he can't understand it. I guess he can't understand because he owns the shadow of that university, which for ten years now has been trying to put pressure on everyone who decides on accreditation in this country so that their programmes that don't meet any of the only conditions are accredited, and now through Mr. Sarcevic he's found a way to finally accredit his college by transferring his accreditation decisions more or less to the minister and removing all those who have objected to it from the accreditation process. Claiming that Zoran Djindjic would today support the accreditation of a university that cheats on his students, which does not meet any of the conditions, which produces false doctors of science who are the only lecturers at that university, which has no single working conditions, and that is what all the competent institutions in this country think, is below all levels. That's what he says he really has no idea what he's talking about. Regardless of the political differences between us, I ask my colleagues to think a little bit before they talk about anything and not to embarrass themselves and the National Assembly and the memory of people who have spent their whole lives fighting what Muamer Zukorlic represents and the government that supports him in his unholy intentions to accredit a college that cannot be accredited.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20740	The right to reply has a folk MP, Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20741	Thank you. There are always people who think that everything they can do and that a dictionary of verbal violence and their will to defame, slander, ugly and lying treats everyone, by women, by dead people, it always does. Everything people say about themselves. But this is not about the character of a speaker who is prone to verbal violence, and I believe every other violence, it's pretty obvious. This is about conflict of interest. This is about the president of the Committee on Education of the National Assembly being in conflict of interest, as a MP and as someone who uses it, misusing the National Assembly for the interests of his university. If there were any former rector of any other university, there would be people here who wouldn't keep their mouth shut. So I won't remember the ugly and embarrassing words of a man who's used to treating others with violence. I will remember the silence of my friends who allowed conflict of interest and violence against the institution of the president of the Education Committee. That's what you remember. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20742	Thank you. Replica, MP Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20743	As far as violence is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we've had every month a gendarme in the New Market. The government violently abolished the election will of Bosniaks in Sandzak in 2010 in the national council elections. To teach someone a lesson about violence is one big, big shame. You may be able to deceive one major part of the public in Serbia, but the people of Sandzak who have suffered your pendrekas and your boots can't be fooled. Therefore, I would ask you to look at the floor as it is spoken of. As far as another interest is concerned, the interests you mention, what you represent is a naked interest, because in the accreditation bodies, the people you've set up sit. With the new law and the new re-election they'll probably come out of those positions, and that's the only authority you have left because you lost power in the election. And now you're fighting for those remnants of power, the corrupt government, the oligarchic authority that still serves you. Here, I call upon all the MPs who want to see the truth, we will arrange transportation, be guests, I will take you not only to that university, but to all the garages, barns and various impromptu homes on which the accredited university writes, in the guddours of Sanjay. That's what your honor is and that's what your result is and it can get accreditation. But what they didn't want to serve you, what they didn't want to be your voting service, and that's why they punished us and punished us and what they won't agree to be part of high school corruption. In fact, it is the university, which is the victim of such an oligarchic relationship of corruption, which has now been introduced to the proposed changes in that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20744	Thank you, time fellow Zukorlic. The Democratic Party is mentioned. Comrade Jerkov, as an authorised representative, you have the right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20745	Thank you. Of course, no one here can think of going around tens of thousands of illegal squares with Muamer Zukorlic, which he has built all over the New Market, which, by force, manages to prevent from being destroyed. I will recall the words of the President of the Republic of Serbia, at a time when he was still prime minister, when he said he did not dare to destroy Mr Zukorlic's illegal construction in Novi Pazar, because no one is in the interest of bloodshed and the breaking of heads, which could cause ethnic relations. Then I asked a parliamentary question, and perhaps we should take advantage of the opportunity when my colleague Zukorlic is here to answer us if he threatened with bloodshed when it was said that his illegal facilities, just like all other illegal objects in Serbia, would be destroyed in accordance with the law? Did he say that the police or others who come here are going to attack someone? Did he say that the police who came to secure this job would attack or did Alexander Vukic imagine that there would be some kind of bloodshed if these objects were destroyed? It was required to answer us and Alexander Vukic, and here's Muamer Zukorlic, so let him answer. They don't think that any DS members think that your university doesn't meet the conditions, that's what the members of the accreditation committee thought. In the second degree, the members of the National Council for Higher Education thought so. That's what everyone in this country thought about accreditation, everyone in this country who understands education. Now, lucky for you, it will be decided by Minister Sarcevic, who doesn't seem to know much about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20746	Thank you. It's a replica to the mention of the president of the SNS. Here, the word is Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20747	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, all of what we've heard reminds me of what Pajtic said in time that all those Slovaks who vote for Alexander Vukic and SNS are some sort of Slovak Chetnik. The truth of the will, when it comes to the International University of Novi Pazar, is that in 2001, the government of Zoran Djindjic helped form the university. The fact is that the late Zoran Djindjic has often been a guest of the International University of Novi Pazar, but not only Zoran Djindjic, but all of the former DS fins. Here, there's Mr. Zukorlic, let him correct me if I'm wrong. The university also lectured both Cedomir Jovanovic and Dragan Sutanovac and other senior DS officials. What's not clear to me in this whole story about the accreditation of the International University of Novi Pazar, first what does the SNS have to do with all this? What does Alexander Wolf have to do with all this? After all, it is not clear to me how someone can, as a national MP, rise up in the National Assembly and say – the International University of Novi Pazar cannot be accredited and dotted. I'm sorry, and who are you to say or who am I to say that for any university? If it meets the requirements, it should be accredited, if it does not meet the conditions, it should not be accredited. I don't know why all this noise, why all this anger, why all this hatred over one thing that's legally fully regulated. Please do not drag SNS and Alexander Vukic into this, the only thing we want in the Raška area and in Novi Pazar, which is peace, style and good neighbourly relations between Serbs and Bosniaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20748	I thank my colleague Martinovic. My colleague Jerkov, you have a basis for replication, but in your presentation you asked certain questions from your colleague Zukorlic, you addressed him directly, so I have to give him an additional two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20749	You're right. You're right. You're right. The hatred that strikes everywhere, I don't know why, but here's what I'm trying to figure out through this debate. As for the bloodshed, the president's statement on the subject was, in fact, the conclusion of what happened in 2010 when your authority sent 1,500 special forces to beat the people. When there really was a conflict and a lot of trouble. What President Vukic did, then prime minister, in that statement, was actually concerned about citizens, about security. No one threatened, no one pushed, and you don't need to manipulate it. As far as wild construction is concerned, the recent official government report, the town halls in Novi Pazar, is that the number of wildly built buildings in Novi Pazar has crossed 20,000 buildings. One major part was built during your government because of corruption and everything that was going on there. I, gentlemen, don't have a single meter, I'm not saying this because of you, but because of the public of Serbia, not one single meter of wildly built objects that concern me and my private property. The Islamic community has certain such facilities because your authority and your associates did not give them permission. That's the only truth. There's no need to manipulate it, but it's really not right for you to insult students of the International University of Novi Pazar in this way, you're stegmatizing them. There are mostly Bosniaks studying there, there are other nations and you instead of helping what was the idea of Zoran Djindjic getting that part of this country's education, you actually want to tear down what he did.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20750	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure of the People's Parliament Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20751	A member of the 106s was injured where the speaker could only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search was conducted. I didn't realize when we talked about roof laws that they had something to do with wild construction. When we said roof we meant laws in a portable sense of words, education laws. I'm really surprised that the only way we're going to get to higher education today is because of the university, private in Novi Pazar. I ask you most nicely, Your Honor, to conduct this debate properly, so that we don't turn our backs on the subject. We don't care what happened ten years ago. Another has now accepted a project called Serbia. He's signing on to this project everything, and you can't do for anything that's not good at what was three, four, five or ten years ago. I ask you to return to the agenda and please, the Honorable Chairman to help us with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20752	My colleague Pavlovic, I fully agree with you that it is very important that we return to the agenda, but here through the discussion of my colleague Jerkov, if you followed, several questions were raised. These questions require an answer because specific MPs and certain parliamentary groups have been mentioned, it would not then make sense in accordance with Article 104 to make it impossible for these MPs and representatives of the parliamentary groups not to have the right to reply. He has the right to a replica, of course, of Alexander Jerkov's national emissary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20753	In the end, counterpart Zukorlic finally gave the point, yes, Zoran Djindjic then opened the University of Novi Pazar, wanting that part of Serbia to live, believing that without good education in that part of the Republic of Serbia in Sandzak, there will be no future. If he had known that 15 years later, that university would have no working conditions, and as Mr. Martinovic said, I'm not saying, I'm not judging myself, not that he applied so that no one has ever decided, no, they've repeatedly decided all the competent institutions in this country, and every time their answer was the same. No, no study program, except for two or three, meets the conditions to be accredited. If he knew that, he certainly wouldn't have supported the university's work today. Alexander Vukic, 18 November 2016, pronounces – do you want a war between Muslims and Orthodox people? I don't want to. "You think the Mufti will let someone just knock down his facility without 5,000 people present. Well, he won't, and he's already told you that. I don't want bloodshed." I ask - who would be those 5,000 people who would defend illegal objects from the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, who are responsible for the destruction of illegal objects? It is important because it is obvious that this university is maintained exclusively by the violence of Muamer Zukorlic, I would like not to mention the SNS, and you have made it possible for him to now mutilate this violence, and to finally do what he hasn't done in 15 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20754	The right to replica first Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20755	As far as wild construction is concerned, Marijan Risticevic can tell you a lot about the opening of the Faculty of Technical Sciences in Indjia, at a time when the president of the municipality was Goran Jesic. He can also show you photos of what this famous department of the Faculty of Technical Sciences in Novi Sad looks like, which of course never came back to life. But I actually want to say something else. You're talking about wild construction. You, whose party president built the first-class pasture building on Vrakar. Whoever gives you the right to call anyone for wild construction, that's one thing. Another thing, why so much hatred, why so much indignation, why so much evil blood, when we talk about a single amendment that essentially, not essentially, but materially, has nothing to do with Mr. Zukorlic, or the International University of Novi Pazar, or the SNS, or Alexander Vukic. I understand that you from the DS have learned, and you think it's democratic, that it's a European, police boot that kills a man, like you did with Ranko Panic. We in the SNS believe that this should not be done, that it is inhumane, and that it should not be done in Novi Pazar, or in Belgrade or anywhere in Serbia. If there is a problem, it should be resolved through dialogue in a civilized and cultural way. Just don't talk about wild construction, some threat to bloodshed, because during the rule of the SNS, no one was killed on the streets of Belgrade, Novi Sad, Novi Pazar, or anywhere in Serbia. During the reign of the DS people were from 2000 to 2012,.. (Gordana Comić: Seven people died. )......................................................................................................... you, Mrs. Comic, behave and do not throw, from 2000 to 2012 dozens of people in Serbia were killed. 39/2VS/LZ
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20756	Thank you. Right on the replica Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20757	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, me and my colleague Martinovic are not in the same parliamentary group, and I have nothing to do with wild construction in India. I was sacked because of the wild construction in 2007. Accreditation of the Faculty of Technical Sciences Department of Novi Sad, the dean was Mr. Cosic, of course, I also have pictures. This is a building that didn't have the permission to use, the Trade June Center. These installations that hang out, these rough works, it's the Department of the Faculty of Technical Sciences of the New Sad, it's not even started. It was all about the way and the opening. This is accredited. The president of the municipality that opened this in 2011, was Goran Jesic, a senior official of the former regime's party, not to give them the right to replication. So the building didn't have the permits, 1,000 squares paid 2,300,000 euros. Look at the wonders, at the top of that building, there was a penthouse where the president of the Indji municipality lived. There are other MPs from India who can confirm that. So, 250 square meters of buildings, without building permits, without using permission, the municipality buys 1,000 squares, accredits a college that hasn't existed for six years, but there were virtual students who went to first, second, third year. There are virtual costs for this university, which is not accredited by regulations, in non-existent space, non-existent equipment, non-existent professors, there is, behold, a miracle, only a penthouse with 250 squares for the president of the municipality of Goran Jesic, a senior party official of the former regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20758	Right on the line of Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20759	When the government of Zoran Djindjic made a decision on the establishment of a University in Novi Pazar, the same people who have been sitting in the main bodies of higher education for the past 15 years have been opposed since the first day. But he in his manner then disobeyed them and then they used his departure to pounce on this university, but not just that. Furthermore, in 2008, 20,000 people in the city square were running for office by your foreigner, your rally president, who made promises to that people and related to the Islamic community and to the university. Having received votes and then lied and deceived that people, of course, continued the situation that followed the violence I was talking about. But that's why you'll never get a single vote there again, you and your party, and I understand completely that you're crying on the remains of your regime by these rectoral, university and whatever other, high education on the mantles of the state that would provide their privileges and that they would still be counting on those who aren't theirs, with those who won't serve them, with those with whom they can't make university gigs and shops like they do in other cases. Therefore, that truth should be known to the citizens, they already know it, but these legal changes will complete this age of yours and finally eliminate your remains and hopefully, this country, high education by their own means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20760	The word is Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20761	Thank you, Vice President. It seems to me that you're doing everything now by trying to somehow remove the essence from us and cloud the essence, and the essence here is very simple. The International University of Novi Pazar, founded by Muamer Zukorlic for 10 years since there has been an accreditation procedure, has been trying to accredit its programmes and all the competent authorities, the Accreditation Commission and in the second degree, members of the National High Education Council have refused to do so, and its requirements because, according to their very precise studies that I have already read at these sessions, for many reasons, the tax-listed programmes implemented at that university do not meet the conditions necessary for the study programmes to be accredited. They are exposed, who has spoken to them, certainly knows something about it, with a number of pressures from Mr Zukorlic, who is trying in all ways to consent them to still accredit his programmes, although according to their studies, they do not even meet the basic requirements. But that doesn't go with his hand. In the meantime, I think Mr. Sarcevic, who was still in it, has issued a strange solution, which concludes that his university has permission to work, has permission to issue public documents, despite the fact that all competent institutions consider that he does not meet the requirements for accreditation. The bottom line is that Mr Zukorlic has now abused his post on the board and has forced Minister Sarcevic to accept amendments, which will finally follow his hand to accredit his university and that is the whole story.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20762	Thank you. The word is by MP Jahja Fehratovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20763	Thank you. I'm referring to article 107. - dignity. I'm personally at risk of dignity here, because I'm a professor of that university, and just what my colleague was saying, all notorious lies and lies. International University received accreditation on several occasions for certain study programmes, the international university has the best working conditions and the best students, and actually these students, while listening to this debate were answering me and saying to invite a colleague Jerkov to come to Novi Pazar or to arrange a meeting with her here in the Assembly, to explain to her and to see what is really going on. So, all of this that's been constructed...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20764	Thank you, colleague Fehratovic, but you are already replicating. I understand your suggestion when it comes to breaching the Rules of Procedure. I think, of course, I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure because this debate has been going on for tens of minutes and everyone has had a chance to make arguments. Finish it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20765	You let a colleague say that the International University cheats on its students and tells lies, so it's a pure insult to me first as a professor, and then to all the other professors and, of course, all the other students and their families. Please don't apply that anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20766	Thank you. Just pick up the line next time. No problem at all. I'd like to, if possible, go back to the amendment. Mrs. Comic, do you want a word? The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20767	Thank you. Any defamation of any MP of the DS, any fiction of Replication to calling – direct address. [[Alexander Martinovic: How is the replica, when it is not an authorised representative?]] In an enthusiasm to get out of the mind that the chairman of the National Assembly's board here is in a deep conflict of interest and that it needs the Anti-Corruption Agency to react and have the rule of law, everyone would turn to her here, and they were counting dead and lying about people with their names and names, such as Goran Jesic, Dragan Sutanovac, not to mention Zoran Djindjic. The lies that have been told will not be able to remove the fact that the chairman of the Committee responsible for Education is in conflict of interest, that any other person should imagine at the place of any other committee, that, as chairman of the Committee, who is obliged to defend the public interest, we would not remain silent for any reason. We wouldn't keep quiet, there's nothing, whatever it is that anyone can tell us – keep quiet about the fact that someone with a public function is carrying out his personal interest, because that's the topic. And no embezzlement, no slander, no lies, no threats, no verbal violence will erase that it happened, that someone from public office took advantage of a public function for his own personal interest. It's a common shame to everyone. As an opposition, Minister, I'll be on your side when you're attacked by others for what I'm telling you right now, because you'll need a defense. It's not a good idea what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20768	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20769	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know what lies in what I said, or what Mr. Marian Risticevic said. It is true that Momir Gavrilovic was killed at the time of your government in 2001. Is that a lie? Is it true that in 2002 a high-ranking police general, in fact Bosko Bhuha, was killed, is that false? Is it true that a senior police officer, Nenad Batcanin, was killed in 2002? Is it true that in 2003, during your power, the Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic was killed? Is it true that Zoran Djindjic, as Prime Minister, supported both financially and politically and in any other way possible the formation of the International University of Novi Pazar? Is it true, what I didn't actually say, I forgot to say, and you, Mr. Zukorlic, correct me if I'm wrong, that Mrs. Ruzica Djindjic is also the Honorary President of the International University Council in Novi Pazar today, is that true? Is it true that Goran Jesic was given a penthouse in a building where there was supposed to be a school of technical sciences in Indjia, which never came to life and where no single, only lecture was held. Is that a lie? Well, then, you're talking about some public-function wealth. If Mr. Marinkovic allows me, I will read to you how the president of your party has become rich, and it says, otherwise in the verdict, which you have boasted, but you have not read the explanation of the verdict relating to Dragan Sutanovac, so explain to me how it is possible that someone as a minister of defense can acquire this much property, which I will later read if Mr. Marinkovic allows me, all these powerful apartments, fields, tens of thousands of euros in domestic and foreign banks, etc. How can that be obtained from the Ministerial Salary?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20770	Thank you. We're moving on to the amendments. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. The word has the People's MP Dejan Šulkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20771	Thank you. In parallel with taking over from the government, both from lower levels and from the National Assembly, as I was saying, in Article 34, it is done, if I can say so, to soften the competence of the National Educational Council, so that, instead of the National Education Council, the National Educational Council determines the development and quality of education, to establish standards, to establish the basis of the programme, it lays down proposals for the programme, it makes recommendations, so the National Educational Council only gives opinions. If we start with the fact that the Government appoints a National Educational Council, that it determines compensation, that the minister can initiate the procedure and, I suppose, successfully implements the resolution of a member of the National Educational Council, with a change of jurisdiction, I can say that, indeed, not using some pesorative term, at least reducing the importance of the National Educational Council and having consequences, it certainly won't lead ministers to fulfillment, because it will not follow the objectives that you have declared by making this bill, it will certainly not act motivatedally and raise the level of efficiency of the members of the National Educational Council, even moreover, by reducing the importance of the National Educational Council will not lead to efficiency unless functioning under the system of subordination or perhaps the appropriate compensation for the work of members of the National Educational Council. You, on several occasions during the debate, pointed out that you were not seeking to abuse these powers, and you presented it in a socially inconspicuous way and might believe it, but that there was no school case in Zemun, where you, perhaps, did not want it to happen, but it did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20772	Thank you, colleague Schulkic. The word has been given by the People's MP Marinika Tepic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20773	I thank the chairman. I believe that you first violated the Rules of Procedure, or Rule 103, when you did not give me the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure, right after the injury was done, and you saw me well...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20774	Not now, you're coming back. You have no right to do that, please. We continued to work on the amendments, I run the session, don't be angry, please. Don't remind me of what happened six, seven minutes ago. The amendment, which is added after article 34 by a new member of 34, was submitted by the MP... I apologize, Minister Mladen Sarcevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20775	I'm sorry. I didn't answer before, because I have two minutes to go, so I waited for the MPs to finish, when I talked about the public debate, about the whole story and what the concept was. Of course you can't link the inspection report and anything that has nothing to do with the NPS and the decision-making method. I mentioned that things are on the Ministry's website. So, the public in the work and in front of this House, before the Government, obliges this minister, and anyone else, to work with honor and to make it available. We are talking about the tradition of Serbia's side, but that no more National Educational Council in any of Europe's countries, not only in the EU, we also talk about Russia, do not have such a concept. We studied this, and we came to the concept that the National Educational Council is everywhere just an advisory body, and then I'm surprised that everyone mentions disenfranchisement. Well, he can't have an advisory body with power. The Executive Authority has the Ministry and it's quite clear. In many countries, not to read again, the Minister himself is the President of the National Educational Council, which does not say, again, that he is the smartest, I don't think of himself at all, so no one has to honor me here, but he is obliged to know who's smarter, to make such teams and expert groups. It must not be a lobby of the body and the whole science is that it only changes the concept, and the public in the work and everything else gives us the right to see if this is going to be a better concept than the one who has repeatedly braked many processes, from the introduction of information to many other things. Making a national framework of plans and programmes, they say outside and curicula, however you like, is teamwork. There are also shelters and teams in the ministry and teams in the NPS. So these three bodies have to work synchronised and the public needs to know what they're doing for everyone's sake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20776	Thank you, Minister. The amendment, which is added after article 34, by a new member of 34, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20777	Thank you. Since my political opponent no longer defends with so much passion as the free textbooks, etc., does not repeat his amendment and in order to further save I will give up the defence of this amendment, but since it was said here that I was lying about something during the previous presentation, I offer to resign if I am anything, and there are MPs from India who are on the opposite side, I am offering to resign as MP if I have lied to any of the departments of the Technical Faculty from Novi Sad which has been opened in India in an area that is not even isolated until today, let alone equipped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20778	We'll consider it. Thank you. Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to the 35th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Zoran Krasic and Sreto Peric submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20779	This article established the number and structure of members of the Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults, which numbers 17 members. It seems to me that the advance in this article has a negative definition of who can't be chosen as a member of this Council, so you've listed a person convicted by a judicial verdict for various crimes, taking away a minor, receiving and giving bribes, violence in the family, etc. Our observations refer to this because this article leaves the methodology present in other bodies, for example at the National Educational Council, so that in addition to the total number and structure of the members, it does not determine from which order, or from which structure or association it designates how many members. We believe that a better solution is to establish the number of members per association immediately in the law. That is why we have proposed to amend Article 35(2), which should read: “The President and members of the Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults is appointed by the Government and this: two members from the ranks of prominent representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, two members from the ranks of artisans, two members from the ranks of the Association of Employers, two members from the ranks of experts from the field of adult education, two members from the ranks of business, two members from the ranks of employment, work, social and youth policies, three members from the classes of teachers and from the communities of professional schools and two members from the ranks of representative trade unions. We believe that when the structure of this body is already determined, why not also determine the number of members.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20780	Thank you, colleague Boyich. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Vjerica Radeta and Momcilo Mandic submitted together to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's messenger Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20781	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, you saw that we wanted to delete the word "representative" union, because it doesn't mean anything. The political basis for someone to represent some union is always prone to manipulation. What I'm trying to say, and I'm going to ask your associate to address you later, because it's a very serious question that I want to give you, since this is about the composition of the Professional Education and Education Council, what are you planning as Minister of Education and Government at all, to do to do something in the field of functional literacy? To explain to the citizens of Serbia what that really means. That someone is functionally written means that he is able to read, write, express himself, and apply his knowledge and what he read. As possible, then, Mr. Minister, that this law hasn't been scratched nearly 20 years back since these dominoes were in power, that you do something because it's about people here who need basic qualifications. You spoke in a principle debate about people who still need to acquire basic and any secondary education, craftsmen. How many times did Vukic mention these welders, but it's not just one example. You know, there's a lot of basic qualified labour that Serbia once had, and now it doesn't have or has but is not functionally usable. You understand what the biggest problem is? We have 1.3 million citizens of Serbia who are illiterate. We have one third of high school students who can't practically apply their knowledge, so they're clean, but they can't actually apply it, you have cases like that with professional occupations. For example, a fourth-year chef in Kragujevac doesn't know how to cook anything. It's not that student's fault. The system is not well-set. What are you going to do in that field, that's my first question. The second question is how are you going to fight as Minister of Education, because you were talking about that some viewing and other classes, excursions, etc., will be organised in schools in Serbia, where people stayed in the village to live. For example, my mother went to school in the village of Cumić near Kragujevac, which you probably heard about, which is almost 300 years old. At a time when she went, after World War II, to that primary school, at the time she was one of the sighting schools in Serbia. Let's make a lot of such schools in Serbia's villages. So, please say something on this subject by the end of this debate, because I think it's important. You see, we have qualified workers. These are the workers from Gossa. They don't get paid for three years. So they've acquired knowledge and they know how to work. The employer and government released them down the water, as well as those in Glasslara, who were left without a job the other day, because Tomislav Nikolic himself was lurking in that privatisation and a certain employer from Bulgaria came. He didn't respect what he promised, and now people are stuck on the street.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20782	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20783	I'll just take a minute. The second thing you asked as a question, we'll wait until we get a network of schools and see the whole subject. So it takes longer to elaborate. I'll talk to the public about it and you'll get to know each other. What you said first, you're most right. We are working on it, intensively, and in this House we will be in October when amendments and additions to the preschool, primary and secondary education and dual, where there will be very interesting discussions, because what you are saying is happening right through these processes. An example that in this country of any employer, domestic, foreign or when you start your own business, you need to have a certain kind of practice, even of course student practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20784	Thank you, Minister. Members of the 35th Amendment were brought together by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and joint MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Božović and Maja Vidinović. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20785	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, this is about the composition of a council on vocational education, which has 17 members and these 17 members, together with the president, are grouped from some eight spheres, and we have craftsmen, businessmen, chambers and none of them are foreseen, except for representatives of representative trade unions. It is said to be two representatives of the representative union. Our amendment was to delete the word – two, because it is not clear to us why are there two, and it is not foreseen there? For example, what are we going to do if we have four representative unions? Otherwise, the amendment was formulated in co-operation with the Union of Serbian Educational Workers' Unions and they asked us this question – why two, why not three, why not four, why just two and not two? Since I am pleased that you have started to communicate with the MPs again, what else have you been doing in the large part of this session, I have not received an answer before what are our sides and what are our European countries? I'm staying confused with that little earlier finding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20786	Thank you. National MPs Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Jovan Jovanovic submitted together to the 35th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20787	Thank you, Chairman. Our amendment also concerns the composition of expert education and adult education councils and also concerns the work on two representatives of representative trade unions. We also believe that this number should not be limited, but that all representative unions, or their representatives, should be found in this body. I should also point out that the experience so far, i.e. the composition of this council, was the same as in this article. But you know very well, or I believe that you know, if we as MPs already know, it wasn't a good solution, because there were no criteria, no criteria, no conditions in which these two representatives of representative unions were elected. The current legal framework does not give you the authority to arbitration among trade unions, such as the case in sport, so the Sport Minister's Sport Act gives you the authority to arbitration, or to decide among several border unions in sport, therefore, in sports branches, to decide who this one is, because only one branch union can be representative. This is not the case in your sector and, therefore, we believe this amendment should not limit the number of representatives of representative trade unions. Because there's either one or there's more. If there are more, then everyone should have their own representatives. I say, the solution so far, identical to this, has turned out to be bad, and we think we need to change that practice. At the same time, allow me, the chairman, to take the opportunity to ask you a question, given that the amendment time is limited and that, according to the Rules of Procedure, it takes 10 hours to explain the amendments. I have reason to doubt that we will get to the point where we will enter into a debate on another law, of extreme importance, of higher education, and I ask you to, here, in front of all of us, tell us how much time the amendment is left to discuss, so that we may know that we may eventually give up the debate on some amendments and that, as we would like to say, we do not beat up all the time in this law and that this other one remains out of debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20788	Thank you very much. Don't give up. Let's move on. The 35th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20789	We have proposed a change in the length of the term of office to members of the Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults, that the term of office not lasts for four years, but rather for six years, similar to what we have proposed, and that the length of the term of office to the members of the National Educational Council be as it is under the existing law, six and not four years, as proposed by the new law. We believe that this is extremely important, not only when it comes to these two educational institutions, but generally when it comes to all independent regulatory bodies, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Citizens' Protector, etc. Because the length of the term of office, which is longer than the duration of the legislative mandate, and above all, of the executive power, can positively affect the independence of these institutions. So it will have to happen that one part of your mandate will have members of the independent regulatory and professional bodies chosen by the previous National Assembly, for example. Of course, this law does not provide for anyone in the professional bodies in Serbian education to be elected by the National Assembly, as we had under the existing law, but is simply decided to choose all of this by the minister. Don't just tell us that it's all in the spirit of European practice, because it won't be the first time it turns out that it isn't. In EU reports on, say, progress in Chapter 23, we are being criticised for not developing enough the capacity of independent supervisory and regulatory bodies. Therefore, denying the mandate to independent professional bodies, withholding competence, is not in spirit with European practice, and therefore we have asked that their mandate last six years rather than four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20790	Thank you. Members of the 35th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which is added after article 35 by a new member of 35a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić together submitted to the 36th amendment. Mr. Ivan Kostic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20791	The essence of the amendment submitted by the Dveri parliamentary group is the same as in Article 34 that the existing legal solution is better. That is why, in the amendment we have proposed to Article 36, we have suggested that the Minister propose that the Council for Professional Education propose concrete measures, not as you have put it in the bill that the Council delivers an opinion. The question is, what is the purpose of this Council for Professional Education? It's without any jurisdiction. What we really need is to confirm what the Ministry delivers.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20792	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20793	I can, when I'm done with the amendment for two minutes, I apologize, I couldn't wait to answer a few questions. The role of a body called advice is to advise. If you don't need it, then you don't need to ask for advice if you're the smartest. I don't think I'm the smartest, and how I need advice, and how in those bodies should be people who know what and how to advise. When we talk about European and non-European countries, of course we have role models in Canada, China, many other countries, which was just a matter. I don't know what else was third?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20794	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 36th amendment. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20795	Since my political rival apparently went to play in the orchestra “mild deaf, ” I will give up my reasoning.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20796	Thank you. The 36th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20797	Therefore, another amendment concerning the competence of the professional educational bodies of the National Education Council, the expert advice on adult education and vocational education, the National Council for Higher Education, the National Accreditation Body. Thus, the proposed law makes these bodies aware of advisory bodies to which the Ministry will give non-binding opinions. These bodies will no longer establish and bring anything. We asked the amendment to return these bodies to the powers they had under the existing law. We believe that the Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults is more competent than the ministry to bring special standards of achievement for secondary vocational education, additional standards of quality of work of vocational schools and schools for adult education, plans and programmes for general subjects, programmes for specialist exams, master exams, final exams for work, etc. So these are all things that will now be placed in the ministry's jurisdiction. One of the reasons why the ruling majority may be in a hurry to bring this debate to an end faster, I don't know what it is, perhaps the minister should be free of the obligation to sit in this room as soon as possible, because the day this law is passed, the minister will have a huge job. He'll have to bring over 50 sublegal acts in a year. That's five or six days by law. It's a lion's job. Two thousand school directors will be appointed, all those members of the national councils will be appointed. It's just an amazing amount of work. It is impossible for the European spirit to concentrate so much power in the hands of the executive government. This is not the Law on the founding of the educational system in Serbia, this is the law on the control of the education system, because education is not managed by professional bodies, but by the government. So this is the law that the government will manage the education system in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20798	Thank you, colleague Guric. According to the amendment, the word has been issued by MP Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20799	There were more opportunities for this kind of intervention, but just to join in this place and what fellow Đuric suggested, but the whole intensity of the series, the many amendments, as far as we've come to process them, which is heading towards turning the attention of the minister, or I suggest that the advice simply isn't right. I'm somewhat different from my colleagues so much that I don't mind the minister deciding. I like to know, after all, whose word is last. I also agree with the Council's advice, as we've heard more than once today from the minister. Yes, the council should advise. The last decision is in executive power, the Minister, so we know who we praise and who we defile. So I don't mind, Mr. Minister. But I think it's a terrible and fatal mistake for all the members of the Council, of this highest, National Educational and others, not to be elected in the Assembly. I think it's a bear service to those people. It's not only that their jurisdiction will be advisory, and I need them to be advisory, they've been there so far, they've only had more powers, but I'm having a problem and I just don't understand why this was going on, here, I ask you, answer me directly if you can, why? It's given more dignity and these bodies and these people, if elected by the Assembly. This is how they, in a way, wanted or not, only government officials or officials of the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20800	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20801	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to article 36 of this law. This article refers to this mentioned Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults, i.e. the competence of this Council. If we look at this law now, we'll see here that there's a tax on that council's jurisdiction. With my amendment, I could intervene at any position of this member and any point of view and any sub-point, but I only did so in paragraph 1, sub-point 1, where I asked that at the end of this sentence be added – with the previously obtained opinion of the communities of secondary schools. I didn't do it for no reason, because we see that this Council deals, first of all, with educational profiles and student questions, and since you, Minister, have had the opportunity to go through your rich education career through all the structures, from primary school to minister, you certainly know what it is and what it is about. Today, children and parents, when it comes to educational profiles, decide primarily by the name of an educational profile, not by its essence. If it's something nice, soundy, they're being entered there, while some of the profiles that are being pointed out today, after a long time, need, don't have that kind of interest. Through my years of practice, I've had a lot of problems telling both students and parents and my friends who have children, when they consult me where to enroll children, what to do. But it was too late that I realized that it was the sound of that profession. And there are so many sound professions, where virtually no student was able to get a job after high school, and if anyone was lucky enough to get a job with that profession, it's someone who found a relationship to get a job, so he went to requalification or qualifications. So that's something to be taken care of. Here were the textbooks. I'll just say a few sentences about it. I'm not going to talk about whether they should be free or not, that's what my colleagues from "It's enough" were talking about, and that's the thing that doesn't present a topic for me right now, but when it comes to high school textbooks, believe me, we have everything there and everything. There are, come on, not only spelling, printing and technical mistakes, it's everywhere, we've seen that today in some 14 amendments, there's been a mistake in printing, but there are material errors. So you have to take care of who, and under what conditions these textbooks are entrusted to, especially high school, where, again, I've had a chance to come across material errors, something that has nothing to do with reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20802	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. The minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20803	Comrade Saviæ, I'll just give you a quick answer, if you don't mind. You know for a fact that the problem of high school textbooks is a small circulation, a small number of registered authors and a small number of students. It's a serious topic that we have to deal with essentially. What you said, I also agree, is that sometimes I'm called, the sound of an occupation attracts more than something that can bring some better practice. We're trying. This year in Valjev, we managed to build a model of Slovenians at Technical School, not only to be the installers of some white technique, but to enter to work renewable energy sources through technology processes. We're making centres of excellence, and there's, say, a very good and machine and geological profession, when you say that he can have a secure job, a small economy and excellent progress, so if you just call it a little bit louder, it'll be nicer. In Slovenia and some countries it is done, it has already gone far. We need a lot of work here, and I agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20804	Thank you, Minister. An amendment which shall be made after Article 36. Adds a new member of 36a, submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20805	We've been here a long time and it's hard, so I'd like to ask Sasa Radulovic to come back to the O.R. because when he's here, it's much more interesting, much nicer and faster this time goes by. So much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20806	Thank you, colleague Yokic. National MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Sreto Peric submitted together to the 37th amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, colleague Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20807	This is a bill on the basis of the education and education system. This provision of Article 37, which intends to regulate what these sectoral councils are, should simply not be in this bill. I must draw your attention that the position of the 1st member, as well as attitude 2, does not communicate with each other. In Section 2, you say all this will be resolved by a special law, so when you solve this special law, you will also solve the sectoral council issue. I don't know why you needed this member to be built on, because in this law there should be an essence of something common to all forms and all kinds of education. This is not an integral tissue for all forms of education, and it does not belong in this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20808	Thank you, dear colleague Krasic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 37th amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20809	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll save time, despite the fact that a musician from the "mild deaf" orchestra has returned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20810	The word is by MP Sasa Radulovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20811	Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. You shouldn't allow such insults, it's really completely pointless. Citizens are watching, and this shouldn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20812	Thanks, buddy. I haven't been able to identify anyone in this room from the words of Mr. Risticevic, so I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? (Yes) Thank you. The amendment, which adds a new member of 37a after article 37a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, colleague Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20813	Thank you. I'd like to thank a fellow SNS officer who just called me to the O.R., so I can grant him a wish. A member refers to education as a child's right. Citizens need to hear this. It's very important. For our diaspora, for children who have escaped from the country, who are studying abroad textbooks are free, imagine for Russia as well. Well, if you don't already like that these students are free in America, Canada, EU countries, at least because they're in Russia. The way it works is that the state buys textbooks, parents bring the child to school, gets a set of textbooks there, uses it for a year and then passes it on to the next generation and those textbooks change, say, every four years. Then of course, the question arises – can we pay for this, as we know, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are very hard to live for, families have very little resources, 57,000 dinars are receiving an average family in Serbia. The textbooks cost from 10,000 to 17,000 dinars per student, and then you can imagine what a burden it is on families, imagine another child, a third child, people taking loans to pay for textbooks. With this amendment, we predict that the Republic of Serbia buys all textbooks, for all children of all primary and secondary schools in Serbia. And that's 560,000 students in all primary schools, 260,000 students in all high schools. To obtain these textbooks, it costs 0.23% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is twice as much as a grant given to Er Serbia, 10 times less than subsidies given to foreign investors, these 10,000 euros and who knows how much per job. I guess our kids are more important to us. The Serbian Progressive Party could adopt this amendment, argue with one another whether they like this or not. They've been talking for five years, doing nothing for parents in Serbia. Finally, the time has come to say things, to adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20814	National MPs Ljiljana Mihajlović, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted the title above the members and Article 38 of the amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20815	We have submitted this amendment to draw your attention to the really fundamental lack of this bill. The promoter must know, by definition he must know, he is the promoter of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the government must know that he has his own Law on State Administration. Special organizations, and we don't argue with you here, and it's a good thing that a special organization, which is an institution, you set up by this law, and that's no problem at all. But you will have to understand one thing, that when the ministry is formed by law, then the same law forms the bodies within the ministry. When a special organisation is formed by law, then it does not enter into the internal structure of the special organisation, and we have a continuation of a dozen members who talk about the structure of the institution of one or the other as special organizations with centres as narrow continents. Mr. Charcevic, you'd better listen to me than pay attention to those who are giving you the wrong advice. Mr. Sarčević, here, look at the article 41. You have a center there, so, it says – the jobs in item 1. etc., so the centre is doing as a trusted business. It can't stand in this law. Why? It's impossible for a special organization to be at the same time a public authority holder. Public authorities are some others who are not in the state government, the AP, the local self-government unit, a public enterprise and some other service, but a special organisation by definition for the work of the state administration. You can't make us pass this law on to them what is organic to them. I'm telling you this was someone writing their legs, not their hands. He doesn't know there's a State Administration Act. When we talk about institutions, we're talking about a special organization. This must be in accordance with the State Administration Act, as you say - roof, well, based Law on State Administration. Someone cheated on you about the roof laws. What kind of roof law is that if there's no foundation? It's a frog's roof if it's your fault. I don't know who wrote you this. What kind of translators are these? What's this about? You think that in these sublaws you can correct, well, you can't and you're not allowed to correct, because sublegal acts have their content and their essence, and you know what sublaws should regulate. Return this law to be settled elementally. I'm amazed how this could have gone down at the Legislative Secretariat. Where were they looking? Or it was a big speed. Euros are coming from abroad. I don't know any other reason for this. We support the idea that the state takes full responsibility for many things in education and that private education is allowed as an alternative. No problem at all, but please fix this act. You see for yourself, seriously, if this is discussed from member to member, so this law should not have more than 100 members, if the law on the basis of the system and here is lost content and essence. This law should regulate the way in which education rights are exercised and what else needs to be arranged, approximately, the basics of the conditions for all those involved in education, and here it came out of these frameworks. There's something here that's colloquial, there's some free translation, there's that fine etc., etc. Whoever wrote you this bill, technically and essentially, it doesn't meet what you wrote here as the Bible of education, which is so-called. competence, ability, knowledge, skills, experience. From members to members, we see that they worked incompetent people, neither have knowledge, nor have experience, nor have skills, that's what this is about. Here, this member of yours and these next members, if anyone reads at law school, a law professor would take him down on his exam. He'd have to take him down. So, you can't have some speed going to the expense of the quality of a law. That's what I'm talking about. There are good ideas that need to be supported and this state-of-the-art educational process, of course you need to take over and there's some of our support here. But take care of this document. Make it look like something.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20816	Thank you, colleague Krasic. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20817	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Chairman, I am giving my time to explain to an economic expert who has failed to learn one amendment in two days. My parrot has already learned two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20818	The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20819	Let me just give you a quick answer. As far as seduction is concerned, their work has been like this since 2003 in all laws. So nothing important has changed, they're just specific jurisdiction. You may be generally right to do it better, but it's not even touched. There's no way they can be seduced and their work.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20820	Thank you. The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic and Sreto Peric. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20821	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I have submitted an amendment to Article 38 of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. This amendment refers to the institutions mentioned in the law. I asked the amendment to delete point 2 in the first position of this article. Point 2 refers to institutions to evaluate the quality of education and education. What was I looking for that for? It's just that we have a too massive administration, and here the minister mentioned that nothing has changed here since 2003. It is true that in 2009, I was also an MP in this Assembly, when it was passed, to say the general law and the first comprehensive law on the foundations of the education system, and then I submitted a similar amendment. We see the Ministry, okay, that's a thing you can't do without. And we have these two kind of tips that we've been through, and we can figure it out somehow. But we're going to the Bureau, so after the Bureau, we've got centers, we've got all kinds of these centers. So, further down, if we're going down the vertical downwards, we have literally unlimited numbers of different teams. Of course, not to skip the same very important link, which is school administrations, all the way to school and school managers. When all of this is taken, it's one premarital administration and, most importantly, there's no synchronization. There's not enough synchronization between all these institutions, and if we're looking at the fact that the number of students, unfortunately, is falling more and more every day, then we see here that the number of administrations is growing. So I think that, in this respect, Mr. Minister, something should be done, that some of this should be thrown out, because it's simply impossible for people who follow only education to count all of these institutions until they reach the school director, or further to the one who is doing direct work, to the teacher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20822	Thanks, buddy. Parliamentarians Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. My friend Guric, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20823	Thank you. The amendment concerns Article 38. Law governing the choice, i.e. the appointment of the Director of the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education and the Institute for the Valuation of Quality of Education and Education. Here, citizens can guess three times how the legal proposal provides for us to get the directors of these institutions. You can guess three seconds and you'll guess for sure, they're scheduled to be appointed by the minister. We have proposed by amendment that directors be elected in a public competition, that the mandate should not last four years, but five years. I've already explained the reasons for this in previous amendments. It is therefore important that the mandates last longer than the mandate of the executive and legislative authority, for the sake of work independence, and we have asked that the criteria be made for the person elected as director of the Institute to have at least 10 years of experience in education in the leading positions. The amendment was rejected because, he says, it does not fit the concept of the law. Here, this is an opportunity for the concept of law, instead of a ministerial or party appointment of a director of a Institute, to win it in a public competition with some legislation prescribed by professional references. Come on, he doesn't have to be 10 years old, as we have proposed with the amendment, but let him have five years of experience in leading positions in education or something. So, to prescribe, simply simply, just appoint a minister, without any criteria of what conditions that person must meet that it might be appointed as a director is to leave the minister to discreetly decide on whom to assign a party credit to become head of an institution and this institution that will be in charge, let's say, to improve education and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20824	Thank you, colleague Gjuric. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20825	I think it says very correctly: “The director, appointed by the Government, is the director of the Institute. “ Where does the minister say that? It says "Government." The other thing, if we just mentioned that the minister can't make it all, well, he's got bodies. Someone's complaining that he's not one of the Bureau. It used to be, decades ago, but it can't be about the quality of the promotion. These things have been separated throughout European practice and here we have since 2003, we haven't essentially changed anything here precisely because this practice needs to be strengthened. Examining centers and everything. You have the result of a small graduation where it's catastrophic. So we just need to build some serious test centres where it's done neutrally. I don't see anything controversial here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20826	Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20827	It's a very short replica. So, okay, it doesn't say to appoint a minister, it says to appoint a government, and you're like a minister of the government. It comes down more or less to the same thing. What is controversial here is that there is no public competition and that the bill does not mention a single word of what kind of professional criteria should meet the person that the Government will appoint as director of the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education of our children. I agree that the results of education are catastrophic. According to competences, our children lag half a year and a half in relation to their peers in developed countries, and above all in key competences. So these are competences to solve problems, mathematical competences, reading competences, scientific competences. It's a serious problem, but we don't see how it'll all be solved simply by having, without any single criteria prescribed by the government law, you choose someone to be appointed director, without the law saying—and having an x, an exclusive years of professional experience in the education of these and those positions or something like that. So this is, as I say, trust in executive power on the blank. When trust is given to the executive authority on blanko, it usually ends up being a function in the public sector or in a public institution that gets someone on the basis of party credit, so we have the owner of a roaster as director of a key energy public enterprise and similar things. So this is not something that is in the European spirit that you, as a legislator, insist on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20828	Thank you. The word is Mikhailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20829	This is very unserious. You don't read the text. You just said the minister is not a minister, he's a government. It doesn't matter if he's a minister, whether he's a government or not. You have to read the text, and the essence of all this is, it bothers you that he's a minister and he's a government, because he's not your minister and your government. If he were your minister and this was your government, it would all be okay. You, Sasa Radulovic, I called you all the time you were in the hallway and until I called you, you didn't come.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20830	Comrade, speak to me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20831	It's a shame, and you're paid to be here, and you're in the hallway. That's not right.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20832	The word has Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20833	Short replica for direct address. Right now, the ruling majority has shown that it is experiencing the state as a party prey. It is not at all that we want the Director of the Office to be appointed to be the director of whom our party will give when it comes to opportunity and it is not at all a matter of us being bothered that our party is not in a position to appoint a director of anything. It's not about that at all. We ask that professional criteria be laid down in the law on the basis of which someone will be elected for something, precisely to escipate the possibility of any party, to place its party-deserved staff on any public post. That's all it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20834	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20835	Article 107. The Honorable Chairman, the dignity of the National Assembly and of us who have political parties, who are party leaders, who are members of political parties, who regularly submit reports to the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is our obligation, we who run the parties, we who join the parties, cannot receive donations from abroad, associations can do so. A few times ago, the speaker said twice – their party. If no dignity is injured, I'll apologize, but they have to tell me what their party is and what it's called. As far as I know, they're some kind of cult, a community of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20836	My colleague Rističević, is not the subject of any party. Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? (No) Thank you. (Saša Radulovic: Rules of Procedure. You have no right to injure the Rules of Procedure. (Saša Radulovic: He mentioned me by name and last name. No, you have no right to harm the Rules of Procedure. I know what you mean, colleague Jokic didn't insult you, he just said he saw you somewhere in the hall in the Assembly. Please, here's Mr. Djuric's replica, I don't think he can do any more democratically and better. Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20837	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 38th National MPs are scheduled to be the director of the Institute for Promotion, Education and Education and the Institute for the Valuation of the Quality of Education and Education appointed by the Government to be a person with professional reputation and working experience in the education and education system. Unfortunately, professional reputation means nothing. We don't know what jobs and what profession that someone should be in charge of the most responsible institutions in the field of education, and we don't know from this or how much work experience he needs. We have proposed to enter into this law and you have really given no reason why you reject this amendment, that the Director of the Institute, the most important institutions of education, be the persons who have completed college, or 240 points to have the level of master of academic studies, master of vocational studies and have at least seven years of working experience in the education system and on the jobs for which higher education is required. You do not accept this because the Serbian Progressive Party probably cannot find people who have graduated from college and leave the possibility in the law that the government appoints the most important directors of these institutions to people who do not have any school at all, because this member does not prescribe the need for any school preparation at all. So, without school, anyone who was employed yesterday at any educational institution, so yesterday, if you hired someone in school without any power, he could be elected director. We suggest that we set the criteria in the law for the selection of directors and that's nothing wrong. You will choose how you came up with it, the government will choose, and at least let these people have college.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20838	Thank you, colleague Konstantinovic. Mladen Sarcevic, minister, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20839	Thank you. This law has a lot of members anyway, and it's fat anyway. Imagine we're still writing systems in law for everyone in fact. Well, I guess there's also an orderly statute and systematicization. Three directors of the office so far have all had PhDs in state colleges and four of them the same. So it is not at all questionable that a very professional person with professional reputation and all that will be chosen. There are no thousand institutions, but two, and they are present in public. So this is very easy to solve. We just don't think there's supposed to be any whole systematization in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20840	Thank you, Minister. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20841	Minister, there's no reason for us to take your word for it. I said, and when we discuss in principle, the minister will change, someone else will come. We can't believe the minister's gonna have good intentions, so there's gonna be some science doctor in that place again. There's no reason not to write it, it's not a systematization, it's the same member, the same attitude that has three rows higher, in a law that has over 200 members. So there's no new member, there's not going to be a burden on the law, we're just asking that the director of the office know that at least he's got a four-year-old college, that at least he's got 240 points. It's not much of a qualification, we're not even asking him to be a science doctor. Seven years he worked in the education system, not to be someone who's inexperienced, and who's party-like to come to that place. That's what we're trying to stop.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20842	Thank you, colleague Konstantinovic. The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20843	I have one suggestion, Mr. Minister, about what the previous speaker said. It would be best if you appointed Boris Tadic as director of the office. He meets all the conditions stated by Mr Konstantinovic. He graduated from college, he was a psychologist at some elementary school, I mean for more than seven years, he's currently retired, he's bored, he's holding some press conferences, and the press is rude, they won't come, they probably can't hear anything. He's drinking cappuccinos, salting our minds every day about how we should be running internal and foreign policy, it's probably very boring for a man. According to a previous colleague, I would say that he meets the conditions for the director of the office, so please, here, and not a member of the SNS, consider my proposal and my initiative to make the director of the office Mr. Boris Tadic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20844	Thank you. The word is Alexander Jerkov. (Nenad Konstantinovic: Replica. Here you go, Mr. Konstantinovic. He's absolutely not offended, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20845	Thank you. This is manners. We're discussing a serious member. We're discussing competences for the director. The minister doesn't behave the way you do. Your only answer is an insult where you insult members and trainees of other political parties. There are a lot of people outside the SNS who meet the conditions of being the director. Don't insult us, try to refrain from insulting us, we're discussing very important matters.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20846	Thank you. The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20847	I don't know what an insult it is to say that a man has graduated from college. (Nenad Konstantinovic: You said he was doing nothing. He's retired, as far as I know. It's completely legitimate that the man is retired. I think he's got seven years of work experience, because before he became President of the Republic, that is, before he became Federal Minister of Telecommunications, I think he was a psychologist, or he was teaching psychology at some elementary school. Isn't that right, Mr. Sarcevic? So, the man absolutely meets the conditions to be head of the office. I don't know what you party presidents are experiencing so unseriously, so you say - it's an insult when you propose Boris Tadic as head of the office. Why? The man meets all the conditions that you've provided for your amendment to be head of the office. It meets another important condition on which you insist, which is that it is not a member, is it not, Mr. Atlagic, that it is not a member of the SNS? So, he meets all the conditions. Please, Mr. Sarcevic, don't name anyone from the SNS, please name Mr. Boris Tadic again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20848	Thank you. The word is Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20849	Thank you. At least we saw now that Mr. Sarcevic would appoint the one Martinovic asked to appoint. Really, it's strange, Mr. Sarcevic, that you don't want to prescribe that even if the university should have that person. It really looks a lot less serious this way, that there's not a single condition for that man. All it says here is he needs to work in the education system and have a professional reputation. It really means that some janitor at school who, if not, has a certain professional reputation... Mr. Sarcevic can't answer because he's already spoken. I see you're telling him he can answer it. He can't answer that. He's already spoken under this amendment, simply the Rules of Procedure won't allow it. Think about adopting her. We can do a correction to the amendment until the moment it comes to the vote. If a lot of masters, if a lot of points are prescribed, give at least college that there are, that really can't be people, don't name you, appoint a government, and don't mind, with this government we don't have any positive experiences when it comes to appointments.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20850	The word is Branimir Rancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20851	Thank you. The insult of Mr. Tadic as director is really no insult. He's a psychologist man, he's a college graduate, and he's fine. It would be an insult for Mr Branislav Lecic to be the director of this office because in Nis he showed such a huge disquieting during the trial that the Democratic Party had at the Nis.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20852	MP, I'm asking for an amendment. Consider that there is still so much time left to discuss important laws. Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic and Milorad Mircic. The amendment, which is added after article 38, by a new member of the 38th, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20853	Thank you. Today all day and yesterday I'm also repeating one very important thing. I hope that in the end the government will realize that there is still time until the end of the debate, that education is the right of the child, that we need to get textbooks for all children of all primary and secondary schools in Serbia, that it is a huge burden on the back of parents whose average incomes are 57,000 dinars of the whole family, that textbooks cost between 10 and 17 000 dinars, that when someone has two children in the family or three children that it is an unbearable cost, that people are in debt, they take loans in banks so that they can provide children with textbooks. Our children who fled the country because of poor government in the country, along with their parents, in the countries of North America, receive textbooks from schools in EU countries. So, you bring the kid to school and he gets a set of textbooks there. The textbooks are passed down from generation to generation, they have some age of four, somewhere five, even Russia has one system. Today, it was interesting to present MP Karic on the opposition to the introduction of free textbooks, i.e. that the state should pay for it, not knowing that such a thing is happening in Russia. Okay, if you don't like North America or the EU, at least because of Russia to accept the amendment by which the Republic of Serbia would get textbooks for all children. It's getting past the point that we can't pay for this, that it's too expensive. That's, of course, total untrue, there's money in the budget, but it's spent on things that shouldn't be spent, it's thrown, instead of spending on things that are important to everyone, which are our children. Therefore, they should end all stories about how the birthright is a problem by the government and by the ruling majority, if they do not adopt this amendment, because it would be the best incentive for parenting and best incentives in general, and help all parents and families, or impact on their budgets for textbooks. That is why I call for this amendment to be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20854	Mihailo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20855	I protest, the appointed didn't say how much percent, you forgot the percentage to say. (Saša Radulovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20856	There's no replica. The titles above the members and the 29th amendment were jointly submitted by Ruzica Nikolic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. The word is Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20857	So Article 39 refers to the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education as a special organisation. The State Administration Act requires the Office to deal primarily with professional affairs and executive affairs, but with executives in terms of the implementation of what is prescribed by both these and other laws. When you look at how it's defined, then it's said that this Institute is doing what the three centers in this office are doing. And, in the end, it's said that this office next to these three centers can have more special organizations. Then we just heard where the government official said you might be right, but this was all written in 2003. If it was written by Gašo Knezevic, it's not some reference to the quality of the proper norm, it's the first thing. The other thing that's very important is, if jurisdiction, part-time work, professional affairs, executive jobs to be done by this office as a special organization, then it must be known that the standard is that these are the jobs that represent one rounded area. It's something at sector level when it comes to the organization of a ministry. However, that criterion is not satisfied, not only in this member but also in the next member. I draw attention to everything the Bureau does over three centers, and what is it doing here? Preparation of standards, is a professional job, preparation of the basics of the programme, etc. You got it. Preparation and accomplished, three. Under four, he approves of additional curricula, possibly professional affairs. Five, proposing to the minister, are not professional business. Participation in construction, probably professional business. Starting an initiative, probably professional affairs, but there's no classic executive work. There's no job, and the executive is certainly the job where the administrative procedure is to be reached. Then comes the pearl to all of it, that's the last attitude, says he's doing these jobs as trusted jobs. Well, that's impossible, people. It's absolutely impossible for it to be written in the bill. Since the minister has arrived, what I said will certainly have the opportunity to read somewhere, to distract you, Mr. Sarcevic, our children are winning competitions from different areas where the knowledge of the prize should manifest, winning first place. They are champions of the world and of Europe because there has not yet been digitalisation in Serbia, so they must walk to develop the winds and overcome competition from the west, which has long lost in the digitisation of the landscape, so it is on a good path not to digitise, but to debilize. Avoid debilization in the educational process.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20858	Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Rističeva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20859	Thank you. In order to work effectively, I give up my explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20860	Thank you. The 39th Amendment was submitted by Branka Stamenoković. The 39th amendment was submitted by Vladimir Djuric. Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic together submitted to the 39th amendment. The amendment, which is added to Article 39 after Article 39, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20861	The amendment is to reintroduce free textbooks. All the ridicules and attempts to mock this amendment, I will endure it because it is very important to the citizens. Citizens know how much textbooks cost children from 10,000 to 17,000 dinars. When one family receives 57,000 dinars, and it's supposed to buy textbooks, it's a big budget earthquake, people don't have money. In all the orderly countries in the world, this exists. Our children in the diaspora that go to school in North America, in the EU, parents who fled from Serbia, get textbooks there. You bring a child to school and there he gets a whole set of textbooks that is passed down from generation to generation, and the whole cost is significantly reduced. The total budget cost of the Republic of Serbia for 560,000 pupils in primary schools and 260,000 pupils in all secondary schools in Serbia is about 0.23% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's twice as much as the Er Serbia subsidy that he gets every year, which is more than 40m euros. Even in Russia, children get textbooks when you bring them to school. In Serbia, they invented a textbook market through which parents are robbed. We can change this. I repeat this because I simply add the provision, this amendment to the law, this is the right law to contain such a provision and practically that provision solve this problem for all parents. Any mockery with this, making jokes, because I repeat the same thing, because it's so important, it really shows one great disrespect for the situation in which parents are, how much this costs them and shows one concern for both children and for the issue of birth which is a big issue in Serbia. This is the best way to help, therefore, Natalie, solve some of the costs that are really important to all children. That is why we demand that such an amendment or a similar, amended offer be amended, that is, to amend the law. The textbooks must be free of charge for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20862	The word has Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20863	The best way to help children and help parents is what the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, in Sapac, did today, when he opened a new Japanese investment in Jasaki, whether that is how Blazo, who will employ 1,700 people. It's a big day for Shabac, for the Pussy County for all of Serbia. So we need investment. We need new jobs. The parents of those children spoken of by Sasa Radulovic need to be employed, to have salaries, so that they can provide their children with schooling both primary and secondary and high. I would ask Mr. Radulovic, how many sets of textbooks he bought to other people's children when he was a bankruptcy manager, when he was a liquidator, when in companies such as Lune Milovanovic DPP, Mode Debeljač, Moda Kovacica, when with his own company he concluded bookkeeping services contracts, he earned a large amount of money, how much of those large pairs he singled out to buy some poor children in Serbia, somewhere in Belgrade, in Novi Sad, in Negotin, in Kralje, anywhere in Serbia, some pen, some set of textbooks, notebooks and so on. He didn't buy any, at least as far as I know, he put everything in his pocket, ran to America. Imagine, Mr. Sarcevic, something went wrong with his hand that didn't even go with Al Capone. He cheated on the entire U.S. tax system, stayed in debt for a million dollars, went back to Serbia to salt our brains about how we should share free textbooks. So, no demagogy, no empty story, no investment, new jobs, employment, salary, that's what can provide the future for both parents and children.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20864	Representatives Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic put together the title above members and members of the 40th amendment. Do you want a word? The word has a folk MP, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. [[Saša Radulovic: Replica, replica, replica, replica, replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20865	I thank the chairman. The SRS parliamentary group submitted an amendment to Article 40. We have proposed to delete the title above the members of the 40th and Article 40. It's a bill of law. In this law, you propose that a whole set of professional jobs, such as the preparation of standards, preparation of programmes and curricula plans, evaluation of the quality of textbooks, the approval of teaching tools and others, leave that competence to the institution within the framework of the Centre for Development of Programmes and textbooks. The question is, what is the role of the ministry in the education and education system, if you assign responsibility for these important issues to the centre? Secondly, the formation of such bodies and institutions only builds up the number of employees and officials within the state administration, and removes responsibility from the ministry for tasks for which it is responsible. We of the SRS believe that this is not a good solution, and we suggest that you put professional affairs under wraps, directly under the auspices of the Ministry of Education, amendments relating to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, it is impossible to correct any uncertainty of the failure and cohesion contained in this bill. Ministers, in the end, I can't help but think about something that really made a big impression on me these days, and that's how you answer the press when they ask you awkward questions, so you asked the journalist about the events at Svetozar Miletic Elementary School in Zemun, you answered, quote – come on. Minister, if you are unable to stand by your decisions, then it is best to resign immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20866	The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20867	You must know the situation in which that story happened. I follow the deputy of enlightenment, the Minister of Enlightenment of China and the woman runs after me and drags me to stand in front of me and him. What would you say? I just don't understand why I can't answer that. I'll always answer like that. Secondly, you have here a constant dilemma, many, whether it should be a strong ministry or should be weak. Let's make a deal, see if any jobs should be done on a team basis. I said I'm a team player and a lot of things are done teamwise. Of course, I won't answer to anyone if they're in some business and if the topic is what I'm focused on, and someone who's been attacked and trying to get behind us, ask a question like that, what would you say?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20868	Ambassador Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 40th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20869	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, since it's about the Education Institute, I'm going to give up my explanation, since whatever I say, these guys don't like it. If I'm not saying I don't like it, if they don't like it again, so I absolutely don't know. I give up my time to a colleague who, after 40 times, has failed to learn his amendment by heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20870	Now, that can't be. The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Maja Vidinovic. The 40th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. The amendment, added after article 40, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20871	Thank you. The amendment is again on free textbooks. I will endure all the insults and all the attempts of debauchery, all the lies that are being told only to eventually get these textbooks, i.e. that the children may receive them, because the burden of buying textbooks for families is enormous, 57,000 dinars is a burden, i.e. receiving average households in Serbia. For these money they need to buy children textbooks, from 10,000 to 17,000 dinars is a set, if families with two or three children are an impossible mission, so they have to be in charge of banks, Serbia is unique in this world to buy textbooks for children. I never stole anything from anyone. All this cheap story can come at me, but adopt this for textbooks. Your parents are watching you, listening to the way you make fun of an important topic like this. So every family should get, every child, to get textbooks paid from the budget. It is available to all our little ones who fled the country in the diaspora along with their parents. In North America, the EU, Russia too. So, in Russia, children get a set of textbooks when they come to school. It should be good in Serbia. You can pay for that. The truth is, there's no money in the budget. There's enough money in the budget for that. Er Serbia's subsidies are twice as big a year as is necessary for textbooks. It's only 0.23% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. This should be a priority. If we're talking about Natalie being a big problem, then we need to make it possible for parenting to be with as little earthquakes and as much help from the state as possible. This is the best way to do it. Otherwise, the amendment also envisions providing transportation for all students, with no cost per parent. To limit the number, the maximum number of students per class for quality, etc. This is a very important amendment. You guys keep making jokes about this. This is serious for parents. The citizens are watching you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20872	Representatives Marina Ristic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted the title above the members and the article 41th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20873	We're with a member of the 41st, and it's again a member who's dedicated to this second center within this institution, but what's characteristic of all these centers and this institution is not only indiscretion but inaccuracy. Mr. Sarčević, we are really going to be faced with an even bigger problem when stable finances or when our finances are not in a position to finance this bulky machine, and education is a massive apparatus and it has to be a massive apparatus. I need to draw attention to you that we'll probably be in a situation where we have everything without actually having anything. We have institutions, we have centres, we have schools, we have educational programs, we have everything and everything, but education and education will be lost. Let me explain how. All of what these centers of yours are doing is based on paper as evidence. All the paperwork has to be covered because this paper proves it, this paper proves this, and I'm telling you, at least 50% of that data, which is listed in these papers doesn't really exist. I must draw attention to you, this law and those special laws that come under this law must guarantee both the sustainability of education and the quality of knowledge both in the Shop and in Belgrade, and you know for yourself what the problem is in smaller places to provide cadre, the educational staff for teaching, not to talk about these other problems. Please understand one thing, if one unit of local self-government because of its poor capacity, by its electoral means, is not able to provide funding for the financing of many of your powers, do not pass on to them any obligations. The Republic of Serbia is guaranteed on every territory and we now have a situation where everyone washes their hands and says, well, if you don't have heating there, it's because of local self-government, so it's not because of local self-government. See only for the first six months how many times the Government of the Republic of Serbia has reached conclusions that it intervened and paid out of the current budget reserve, funds to local self-government units, because regular funds are missing. Local self-government is unable, there is no way to provide funds for the elemental functions. Take care. If you make such a massive system or continue with this massive system, there is great damage to the entire education system.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20874	The word has a minister, Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20875	Just for the public's sake to say that when you look at the budget of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, you see a huge figure that goes all the way to pay. And if we wanted to do something smart, we wouldn't have the money. And these institutions never counted less employees than in my day, I asked for a rationalization of all of them. The entire office, the large office, as we call it in the jargon, is the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, has about 80 people. And the Quality Office is less than 30. I am personally dissatisfied with the culture of the current way of employment, where all possible cousins and other situations have happened. And when you have to work with these institutions, you have to work on a lot of curricula and programs, changes, so they're working on the edge of sustainability. So there's no greater savings here that have not already been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20876	National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 41st amendment. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 41st amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20877	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, because of our citizens here, the Institute of Promotion could share textbooks for free, but our citizens need to know that at this point it's inconclusive. Yeah, enlightened evil, right? The party of the former regime, that's what they called it, not me, along with the bankruptcy directors, and I'll call it in a joint criminal enterprise, not 400,000 people, and this math is correct, the Department of Promotion could freely share computers and textbooks. Four hundred thousand personal incomes are around 180m to 200m euros. One hundred and eighty million euros, VAT alone is 32m euros. When I teach math, the electricians shut up. Therefore, at 180m euros, VAT is only 36m, plus contributions to salaries. How much in funds and budgets would there be more for education, how much would the social product economy throw out more? Now that you take that number, then you get to the data easily, so that on an annual level it's over 500 million just from the VAT. Then the state could get computers, buy textbooks, like this, they, enlightened evil, in a joint criminal enterprise, former bankruptcy directors and party of the former regime have contributed that today parents cannot have free textbooks and computers, because they have impertinently disabled their right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20878	I didn't see it. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20879	I want to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Article 106, paragraph 1, the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. You, a little while ago, called MP Marijan Risticevic to explain his amendment, and he's in the amendment under article 41 after, I'm going to tell you exactly, one, two, three, four... After the fourth word added a decimal. He wasn't talking about the amendment at all, and that's the manner of all his amendments. I have carefully analysed all the amendments he has submitted and in every amendment that he will get the opportunity to speak and abuse the time for debate...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20880	Yes, he's an MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20881	That's right. Yeah, he added a decimal point. I don't mind that he added a decimal when he explained that amendment. However, he insists on using the time to discuss details in order to defile people in the way you do it all day long. So, his every amendment has the right to change, by adding a decimal, but it's also his obligation to explain that amendment, not to say anything that comes to mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20882	He also has the right to speak to your president of the Parliament Group. He's involved in politics. Okay, I'll censor it in the future, and I won't censor you. When it's deleted, it's okay, and when someone puts a decimal, it's not right. Thank you for your understanding. That's right. Only you, with your amendments, 250 MPs have the right to submit amendments. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Dubravko Bojic and Sreto Peric. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20883	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to a member of the 41st Law. This amendment is in the spirit of my previous amendments, or amendments to Article 38, which relate to the Institute for Professional Education and Adult Education. The difference is just now it's not the Institute, it's the Centre for Professional Education and Adult Education. What I said in the amendment relating to the Institute, all the same applies to the Centre relating to professional education and adult education. The fact is, unfortunately, that the number of students is growing more and more in our schools, but this trend does not follow the reduction in the number of administrations, but rather, the administration seems to be increasing in some ways. If we know that there are various centres of the school administration, etc., so we have administrations at the level of the unit of local self-government, it's another institution, but there's not enough synchronisation for all institutions, so I think we need to reduce the number of these centers, institutions, etc. I asked the amendment to delete item 14 that says – Help, this Center, among other things, does what it does, provides assistance in coordinating social dialogue and partnerships at different levels, planning, development and attaining professional education and adult education. In my opinion, this definition means nothing, it's unclear in itself, and it's also inapplicable in practice. If we consider Article 35 of this Law, where it is said that members of this Law are also experts in the field of vocational education, I think that this particular is somewhat clumsyly said, in secondary schools there are no experts in professional education, simply, they are teachers, or teachers in professional schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20884	An amendment to which Article 41a is added after Articles 41a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20885	Thank you. The amendment is about free textbooks for all children. That education is the right of children, that families in Serbia live very badly, that they have very small incomes, 57,000 dinars, that textbooks cost between 10,000 and 17,000 dinars, so if the family has two children, three children, they have an impossible mission to obtain textbooks. Parents often take loans from banks to buy a textbook, this is unique in the world, that the entire industry that was made around the textbook serves to rob parents. That should put an end to it. The solutions that exist in a regulated world, in North America, in the EU, exist even in Botswana and Russia have a system in which children receive textbooks at school. Parents bring their children to school, they get a set of textbooks at school, and that's the cost of the budget, and they're largely disbursed parents. This could be paid. All those who say there is no money in the budget for this, deceive Serbian citizens. In primary schools there are 560,000 pupils, 260,000 students are in secondary schools. To obtain textbooks for all of them, 0.23% of the Republic of Serbia's budget is enough. That's twice as much as the grant received by ER Serbia. That's ten times less than the subsidy granted to foreign investors, who are opening up places here for cheap labour. So, this can be done if the government is really concerned about birth, if the ruling majority is concerned about birth, they should be, this is the best way to encourage parenting, help families, and then our children, like these youngsters, who fled the country with their parents, so in those countries, including Russia in the world, are getting textbooks that they have the same opportunity. The government has one chance to show that it cares about our children and to move from word to deed. No offense will stop me from insisting on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20886	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20887	I said, Mr. Minister, if you remember, that this man, who suggests buying 560,000 computers, will not have the courage to say how much it costs. You know for what reason? For the same reason he can't explain why he was then subsidising "Er Serbia" in 2013, when he was a minister -- because he has no idea about anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20888	Of course not. National MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Filip Stojanovic and Zoran Krasic put together the title above members and members of the 42nd amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20889	I hope you remember that the average salary is 57,000 and the textbooks cost between 10 and 17 grand. If that's what you've got, Mr. Sarcevic, remember, let's move on. So you admitted to remembering? There's no need to repeat it? All right, let's move on. Article 42 refers to the Centre for Professional Development of Educational Employees. Mr. Sarčević, in some of our classes, seventh grade, eighth grade of the school, and why not say in some high schools, educational workers when they are to enter the classroom are preparing for a gladiatorial fight. You laugh, but that's right. I have neighbors who have these troubles and they say – when I'm supposed to come to III/3, I grab my head. There's a cell phone, there's a rocket, there's this, there's that. You can't have any disciplinary measures, or to say put off your cell phone, don't play, go outside, because you don't listen to your parents, especially “call your parents. ” If he says call your parents, then your father and mother will attack an educational worker. With what right do they warn their loved ones that they should learn? If you're already building this Center for Comproving, Notification and Education of Educational Workers, then you must also introduce martial arts. You laugh, laugh. When a society loses that system of values, then the system of values that educational workers are trying to impose on children who are students and who, by definition, do not know, mature, need to know, is an impossible mission. Why is it an impossible mission? Well, here you go, Mr. Sarcevic, look at the commercials - I don't have a job, I don't have a girlfriend, let's write down the IT Academy "Comtrade", so I'll sort out the question and the work and the girls. Come on, take a walk on the main streets of our places. The first thing you'll think about is that you think you're abroad, is Italy, is England, is Germany. There's no name for us. Go all over Belgrade, if you find one street to write a pub, three o'clock if it says a restaurant. So if in society the system of values is not promoted in every place, so don't expect educational workers to be able to make something more significant. Now, at this center, how do they value their quality and how does it affect the quality of teaching workers to acquire new knowledge so that they can share those skills with students? We're back in the paper field. One piece of paper to prove that he had passed the training, that he had taken the manual, that he had mastered that material, and whether the educational inspector had visited or not visited it...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20890	You've wasted your time. No more groups of you, no more powers. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20891	Mr. MP, I would agree with you about 90% of what you're saying. It's hard to work in education. We talked about everything today, except that. Of course, children treat the overall social environment in which they live, but we have put in many places what must be done on this matter and strengthened discipline and accountability. The rules of conduct, where you quote certain elements, are very sharp, starting with the use of a mobile phone in class to a lot of things. Thus, the law itself, the responsibility of parents and all others, in some ways, is put back into effect. This law needs to protect colleagues who work in education, who meet with the boastful behaviour of individual students and some of their parents who represent such behaviour, so also co-operation with other ministries, there will be a very low threshold of tolerance and understanding for these things. Of course, something that breaks down can't be fixed overnight. This takes a lot longer to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20892	Member of the 42nd amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20893	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, given that those I have called a joint criminal enterprise reject the dry facts and call it an insult, I must say that this Educational Office, especially the Centre for Professional Development of Employees, needs one of my colleagues to explain that 400,000 personal incomes are currently worth around 180m euros. When employees take home those 180m euros, they, unlike their large tycoons on some Virgin Islands and so on, spend that money in the country. It's the best-allotted money. For those 180m euros, they would spend a VAT of 36m euros a month. So much would be combined only with VAT in the country's cash register, which is 432m euros a year and from there we could easily allocate 300m and pay for computers, textbooks, uniforms, transportation, food and whatever we want, additionally to pay for what we don't have today. We don't have it today either, and they're crying about pensions, but those 400,000 on an annual basis damage various funds by contributing to the salaries of a billion and 200 million. Now imagine if we had 480m euros, as would be the PIO fund, how much we could increase our pensions annually if it hadn't been for this joint criminal enterprise, the enlightened evil, the former regime's party and the bankruptcy managers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20894	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20895	Madam President, Article 106. - the MP can only talk about the agenda point. I would just like to remind you that it is your duty to make sure that the Rules of Procedure is respected. Since the MP wasn't talking about the amendment he proposed, and I'm going to tell you what he suggested. So he suggested the exact same article text, only after the words – education, in the first sentence, added a decimal, though, it's in the wrong place point, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20896	You don't have the right to a discussion or to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20897	He's entitled to a discussion, I'm talking about his injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20898	He can't hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20899	Yeah, he just got hurt. You need to stop him from doing that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20900	I can't stop him, he's talking about his amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20901	He just added a decimal and didn't even talk about the score.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20902	He didn't add, the amendment reads, look at the text.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20903	I'm looking at it, I found the point in the first sentence, after the word - education, added a point. He has to explain why he added that point.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20904	It's a good thing you said that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20905	And you should follow if he's doing it. While he's talking, so are you. I was looking at you earlier. You should take care of the order at the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20906	Is that a problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20907	It is a problem, since you're in charge of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20908	Also tell the MP next to him that he has proposed several hundred equal amendments. It's completely pointless. In your opinion. The MP submits amendments as you wish. I think MPs have the right to propose amendments whatever they want, if the committees say it's in accordance with the Constitution. There's nothing we can do about it. Let it go, you're not exactly a good example of this. The 42nd amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, which is added after article 42a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20909	Article 42a. That member says education is the right of every child. I understand the ruling majority's MPs don't want to hear it, but the citizens want to know. We have a chance here to provide free textbooks for all children in all primary and secondary schools in Serbia, to relieve parents of this huge cost for which they very often take loans in banks. It's really total absurd, you take credits in banks to pay children's textbooks. They cost, a set, from 10,000 to 17,000 dinars. The average income of the family, households in Serbia, is about 57,000 dinars. Obviously, it's practically impossible for a family to bear this cost, so they have to take credit as well. If the ruling majority is really interested, and the government is interested, on the issue of birth and help parenting, this is the best way to do it. Also, the amendment provided for pre-school education to be made available to children without parental participation and also to cost the Republic of Serbia's budget. This is a way to help parenting, help young couples decide to have children, those who want to have children. Also, the amendment provides for all children to be paid from house to school and back. This is particularly important in rural areas, remote villages, where the state would have to take that cost. If local self-government were to bear that cost, it's simply not real, they don't have enough money for it. In all the countries of the orderly world where our children have fled to the diaspora, North America, along with their parents, the EU, and Russia, unfortunately, and in Botswana, so they also get textbooks, only in Serbia. So, that's enough of the empty story, that's enough of the flossula, the mud, the attack. Let's do something for the parents. Your parents are watching you. Let's do something that's good for our kids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20910	The word is Nenad Constantinović. Here, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20911	Thank you. So, the SDS supports amendments that go towards providing free textbooks for children. We believe that it is absolutely possible to achieve it and it has been proven possible to achieve it, because free textbooks have been in one period. But what's important for citizens to know, who may not have children in the first grade of primary school or have no children at all at school, is that we don't have free textbooks and not that we don't have a free elementary education, even though it's prescribed in law, but parents are faced with having to pay, besides textbooks, besides notebooks, in addition to extra workbooks, next to lunch, next to lunch, to pay for and edit classrooms. In schools in Belgrade, we have a situation where lighting is such...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20912	Ambassador, it has nothing to do with the amendment. It's interesting, but what does lighting have to do with it?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20913	It has to do with free textbooks. If the state gives free textbooks, then parents will be able to pay for parquet in the classroom, lighting, painting classrooms, benches and lockers. It's all costing. And that's what every parent faces. We pay for security at school, because school doesn't have security, and parents have to pay for it. That costs 1,500 dinars in six months. The extra workbooks cost a thousand dinars. So how much does a parquet cost, how much does it cost to paint, how much does it cost to light up in the classroom? All those parents have to pay for kids who go to state school. When they pay for all that, they don't have the money for textbooks the state could provide. So what these amendments are going in, it's to help the Minister to provide more money in the education budget so that really basic education is free of charge.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20914	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20915	I'm getting circumstances and some kind of education manager, and I've been studying, and I've been doing fine. Although the entire budget is a billion and 400 million for education, it is at least a billion and 250 million for wages. Then it's really a question of what's free of charge? We're only talking about one segment, I've been making business plans, and I've got the facility paying for everything. The textbooks are a minor part of the total price of wages and everything. The moment in which the state, which has, I think, 35 billion euros in GDP, is unenviable that it could be promised more. But I think he can get rid of things in a very recent perspective. With this bill, you will see later, we have a solution to the question of the student company and the student cooperatives, through which we think that many of the things schools gain as their own incomes, are not seen, because there is a threat that they have to invest in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so one report, three do not report. So we'll make it visible. So, all the schools that can provide funds, it's just the question that there's no self-absorbed director on this matter, and there's as many as you want. If we've worked 396 schools this year and invested nearly four billion dinars on their renewal, then it's a multi-year-old abandoned state not only of lighting, but also of toilets, sports halls and all, and it takes a whole Renaissance and I agree with you that any company's well-being, a larger budget is something the enlightening needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20916	The title above the member and member of the 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by Dubravko Bojic, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20917	We should just continue, since now the topic is this second institution – Institute for Valuation of the Quality of Education and Education. Of course, the same shortcomings I talked about earlier are also present when it comes to this provision that regulates this special organization. But for nothing, we're talking about these special organizations, unless we're in the process of education. I must really commend you for starting with something called state responsibility for education, because so far it has been undefined, the state is wondering, selectively asking, and here you have clearly and loudly said – you will appoint directors, in some procedure that is prescribed, you take responsibility. The ministry has now provided funds for the salaries of employees in this state preschool, eight-year and middle education, and that is good and you need even greater responsibility to take over. Of course, funds are always a problem and it needs to be bridged in various ways, but I have to distract you, more grandmothers always give you sour children. You haven't changed your jurisdiction much more, we're not even going to get to those school administrations, like detached parts of the Ministry of Education doing some work on the ground. There's room to make some savings. This business thing with school activities, forget it, it's got nothing to do with it. Believe me, it's nothing. There's nothing you can do about it. Because they're so small. If you could centralize public procurement and attract these school principals and employees as much as possible to be in the ranks of civil servants, not the quasi of civil servants, but the real civil servants, then there is a shift for our education. In this present airless space, we're underwritten.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20918	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 43rd amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20919	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this amendment, I have added a comma. I learned that from Professor Pavicevic, who teaches miracles at the Faculty of Political Sciences. But unlike the one present here who also teaches at the Faculty of Political Sciences, Mr Pavicevic never went to say that education is accessible to everyone. He always spoke - available. This Educational Quality Assessment Institute needs, apart from primary and secondary schools, to visit small and university schools, to see which teachers are neither for primary nor secondary schools, let alone for colleges. This is the present university, the present university professor, who graduated from college, from whose groups often say – he has a college, he graduated from college somewhere in Hungary, he used two words – comma. So if he doesn't know Serbian, then for me he's not a university professor, he's a university professor for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20920	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20921	Thank you very much. I am obliged to draw your attention to the violation of the Rules of Procedure under Rule 106. - The MP can only talk about the subject. You spoke to the honourable minister earlier, so you probably didn't pay attention, but the amendment of MP Risticevic, who has the full right to submit as a MP, consisted in an added score. We have heard all sorts of things, but we have not heard why MP Risticevic thinks this point is crucial to the quality of the legal solution in that article. So, the next time he explains his amendments, I ask you two to pay attention to the score, and I ask you to listen carefully to him if he talked about anything other than the score. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20922	I don't understand anything you're saying. When you said the decimal, he now explained why he puts the decimal point. I listened to him very carefully, referred to Professor Pavicevic, and why do you have a problem with Ambassador Marijan Risticevic? We have 1,200 amendments, of those 1,200 amendments very little we have heard the basic explanation. The right to obstruction has every MP. That's what opposition MPs do most of the time, but others do. Learn that you really can't just speak, have the rights and other MPs to put the decimal point. There is an object of legal normation and it would explain to you how right Marijan Rističević was, at least at the state college, learning this, on Soros he has not. Thank you. If you want, we'll vote. You have no right to my argument. We'll vote if that's what you want. The silence is that you don't want to. (Vladimir Djuric: Yes. ) The 43rd amendment was submitted jointly by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. Members of the 43rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Nikola Savic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Sreto Peric. The 43rd amendment was submitted by National MP Branka Stamenkovic. Just sign in, and we'll be right back. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 43 of this Law and this amendment refers to the Office for the Valuation of the Quality of Education and Education. I asked one of my previous amendments to remove this office and if my amendment had been adopted, I probably wouldn't have the need to explain it now. Knowing how this government works, then I submitted an amendment to this member, and at one point where I asked that the Center for International and National Studies and Development and Research Affairs be abolished, even if you don't want to lift the entire office, to abolish this center, because it essentially means nothing and does nothing. In the light of the amendments, which has been rejected, it states that it has been rejected for reasons that it does not fall under the proposed law, does not fit into the concept of the law. Given what the minister just said, just when it comes to these laws, that these institutions are pre-named by the number of employees and we heard from the minister, which is commendable that he did something about it, that there was a reduced number of employees and we heard, unfortunately, one fact that does not contribute to our education, which is that there was nepotism there, that there was employment of relatives etc. This very fact would not be the most frightening in itself, but it is usually nepotism that monitors ignorance. They know they're cousins, but the one who hired his cousin knows he's not very capable, so he can't show up anywhere else and put him where he was. So, Mr. Minister, I think you should accept this amendment, because this center itself means nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20924	The amendment, added after article 43, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20925	About free textbooks that are a huge burden for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, on the average income of the family, Mr Krasic, who is 57,000 dinars, parents have to buy books for children who are between 10,000 and 17,000 dinars, a set. If someone has two or three children, you can see a simple calculation, it's practically impossible. The cost should bear the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Whoever says that's not possible, that there's no money in the budget, is simply not true. For all 560,000 pupils in primary schools and 260 thousand pupils in secondary schools, the cost of textbooks would be 0.23% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. If we look at just, say, Belgrade, getting textbooks for all children in primary schools in Belgrade, it costs about threem euros. That's less than the price of a mast. To get textbooks for all high school children, it's less than 2m euros and that's the price of a fountain, less than the price of a fountain. Question – are the masts and fountains more important to us or are our children important to us? All our kids in the diaspora get books from the schools they go to. They ran away with their parents from the country because because it's a bad government in Serbia, they have very bad conditions, bad profits, no job but cheap jobs. In the diaspora, they get textbooks from schools. You bring a child to school, he gets textbooks, not only North America, the EU, but Russia, and we heard it today in the debate and Botswana. So this is possible to pay, but the question is, why doesn't the government do this if it really matters? What makes masts and fountains more important than our children? It's important for Natalie to create conditions for parents to have children, for all those who want to have children to have them, for them to have economic conditions to do so. Enough will do this in Belgrade if the government does not adopt this amendment now and if it does not accept that it is done for the whole Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20926	Thank you. Now, if I were to sit as an MP, I would say a violation of the Rules of Procedure, since the amendment does not correspond to the text of the bill required to be amended. It's completely two different substances. It has nothing to do with life. I ask MPs who are interested in reading. I don't know how you let that happen on the board. National MPs Marina Ristic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic put together the title above members and Article 44 of the amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20927	This is Article 44. However, when we talk about these institutions and these centers, Minister, you could all unite and work in the ministry and nothing would be lost to quality. I have to tell you, we'd even be closer to you, we'd be there for you, and there could be no obstruction, which is probably happening, because by the definition of bureaucracy, it's causing obstruction, because they say they're green, and we're all October. All these amendments that apply to these special organizations should be interpreted in that sense. So this is the original job of the state administration that needs to be done at the Ministry of Education. I'm taking another chance to remind myself. So, the affairs of the state administration in the field of education and education take place in every square millimeter of the Republic of Serbia of the same quality, under the same conditions and in the same way. Look at the next stage to get as much local self-government out of the state school as you can. All where local self-government can be involved in the educational process are local specificities in the field of geography, some local history and something that is plus, because education in Serbia is in the same position as social policy and all those working in social policy are civil servants. Transferring it to local self-government or allowing units of local self-government to give something extra from their budgets, it is social protection plus, and the ministries guarantee what is a state obligation. That thread really got lost in this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20928	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 44th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20929	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleague, who's known here for the tambourine, has been hitting him all day and all night, this time talking about free textbooks, looks like his tambura is better off. I have to do it one more time, to remind the public, that it all looks like a man being robbed, and then they're complaining about his harm. It's like when they commit robbery, and then they feel compassion for the one over which the robbery was committed. If someone fired 400,000 workers from the economy, which increased the public sector, it damaged them for payments of 180,000,000 euros each month, but also damaged the state by 36,000,000 VAT each month, or 432,000,000 annually. On contributions from pensioners and RFZO, health care, hospitals, schools, they robbed an additional 1,200,000 euros annually. That's why, for the sake of the citizens, I call it justifiably, a joint criminal enterprise over, then, the unprotected people by the enlightened evil, which is contained in the party of the former regime and in the bankruptcy managers who have been harassing and robbing people and now, for God's sake, they offer free textbooks. Thank you. (Tatjana Macura: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20930	There you go, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20931	I refer to the breach of Rule 106(1) of the Rules of Procedure. – the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted, as well as every previous time on the added score not a single word, meaning that the previous speaker did not explain his amendment. He has thus violated another member of the Rules of Procedure, which is the 158th position in which it is said that, among other things, they suggest to their amendments that new provisions be introduced, i.e. they in some way contribute to making this law a better quality. After we haven't heard from MP Marijan Risticevic that his score contributed to this law that we are to adopt tonight or in a few days...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20932	You don't have the right to discuss it, just about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20933	That's what I'm talking about. We haven't heard from him that in his two minutes, as far as he had the right to explain, according to the Rules of Procedure, he wasn't talking about which contribution to the quality of this law has added a decimal, but we've heard about some other things and, like, every time...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20934	Yes, it is. You have no right to censor.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20935	I'm not censoring, but we'd like to hear that argument that the MP would give about what kind of...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20936	I know you have a point on Marijan Risticevic because he criticises.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20937	Don't interrupt me, I'd like to finish thinking. I really can't interrupt you while you're talking, so it'd be nice for you to let me go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20938	Well, I guess, but don't talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20939	So, we haven't heard of the contribution of the quality of the law... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20940	You have to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. I fully understand your parliamentary group, your movement, because Marijan Risticevic is mostly criticising your parliamentary club. He's right, I know it's annoying, and that's why you're abusers of the Rules of Procedure. I have the right to take two minutes away from your time, because you have so many amendments, I have the right to do so, but I won't. I'll read your president's amendments. That's an explanation. You have no right to do that. I'll take two minutes for sure. Because the amendments he has proposed do not correspond to the text of the bill he asks to be amended. So, it's a joke with parliament and I didn't react, and you're reacting now because you're upset by MP Marijan Risticevic. It doesn't really make sense, I'm going to start reading your president's amendments and the text of the bill has nothing to do with living with each other, and we've been listening to it all day and you've taken away the right of the MPs to take away time and talk and to discuss another important law. Well, that's what your MP group did. (Vladimir Djuric: Change your Rules of Procedure. Change it by the power of your voices. Let's move on. The 44th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Representatives Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic together submitted to the 44th amendment. National MP Vesna Marjanovic submitted to the 44th amendment. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 44th amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The amendment, which is added after article 44, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. National MPs Aleksandra Belačić, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic put together the title above members and Article 45 of the amendment. The word is Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20941	It's about this exam center. If you think that education of an organisational unit within the Institute, as a special organisation, can ensure quality, security, reliability and all other attributes for something of quality, experience says that so far it is not quite as secure. Mr. Sarčević, I have to draw your attention, there's been a lot of debate here, and criticism and praise, but the right base for what we call education is state universities, but they're also the base for private education and for private universities and higher education institutions. Well, when you talk about quality or poor quality in continuity, then consider who their teacher was. Well, when you see who their teacher was, then open your eyes when you take their expert and competent views, because they need to be installed there. And, you see, they mutilated the bill with these terms. I've only used one -- competence. You've got everything there and everything that comes back to terms and logically and logically from something that people who live here can understand. So in education, you have too many people who benefit from half-sided words and cover up essential ignorance in this area. How are you going to get out of this, I don't know, but I wish you and every one of you good luck and God help you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20942	Vesna Marjanovic submitted the title above article 45. Member of the 45th Amendment was submitted by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20943	Ladies and gentlemen, very short. I'm not just adding to the stuck. Whoever reads the amendment, I propose an entire amendment and that comma you see as a change in the entire text of one amendment, unlike their boss, I've learned at least what I suggested. But I learned from the best. I'm not ashamed to learn anything from Pavicevic. Others need to learn from me, and there's a professor here who doesn't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20944	Thank you. Parliamentarians Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic together submitted to the 45th amendment. A letter from LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to the 45th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20945	Well, in addition to having free textbooks for all children, it is also important for the Center for Exams to make sure that the exams are accessible to their children. I have submitted an amendment to this article so that in addition to this point in point 1 that the Centre participates in planning the strategy and methodology of conducting the exams, I added that it adapts the methodology in conducting exams for students with developmental and disability disorders, as well as students whose Serbian language is not native. The amendment has been rejected, and the reason is that otherwise it is understood and that the centre can perform, in the context of its professional affairs and this, so it can, but it will not, is the problem. What makes it important to talk about these things affirmably? Because when you say education is available to every child, I ask you if every child and child that doesn't see, whether every child and child who has dyslexia, dysgraphia, spectrum disorder, Roma national community child, a child who lives at some point by divorce of parents, etc. Of course not. When we tell everyone, we usually think about the average kid, so even when we do the methodology for the exam, it's for the average kids. So it is important, because there are a number of other affirmative laws, there would be no specific laws for the employment of certain vulnerable groups, because as we know and under the Constitution everyone has the right to work, but each one, for example, It wasn't me, other people from sensitive social groups weren't recognized. It's very important that these affirmative things stand in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20946	Thank you, colleague Mihaylovska. The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20947	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, do you allow me? Infringement of Rules of Procedure, Article 162.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20948	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20949	No, I don't want to discuss the amendment to Mihajlovski. You didn't understand me very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20950	Okay. Thank you. The amendment, which is added to Article 45a after article 45a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20951	In fact, I wanted to discuss the amendment submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic and draw attention to all MPs who may have been tired of the mantra he pronounces, to pay attention to what the amendments look like. What really worries me is that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has allowed hundreds of such amendments to pass into the procedure in parliament and that we are playing a role in submitting amendments from MP Sasa Radulovic. He warns Marijan Risticevic several times today, and his parliamentary group, why he has put marks in his amendment. They didn't realize anything. He did nothing different from their MP and wanted to show what it looks like when Sasa Radulovic and MPs of the parliamentary group were enough to submit the amendments. In Article 162 of our Rules of Procedure, the writing of amendments is subject to uniform methodological rules for the making of regulations. This means that the amendment must correspond to the text of the bill to which it applies, to say what the objective of the amendment is and how you correct the amendment. I ask you to take, to read the text of the bill that he says whatever he wants and then yells, insults the chairman of whoever is sitting there, and makes some kind of drama and play in front of the citizens that he's prevented in something. He only mocks this holy house and prevents the MPs of the opposition, including the ruling majority from talking about the text of the bill, both of them. We almost have to get the Rules of Procedure over with, and he spent hours and hours on what? I have the right to discuss the amendment. Listen to the text of the bill, says this is how his amendment - mantra... (Vladimir Djuric: There is no time. It's been a while. My time has come. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20952	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Maja Gojkovic. I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20953	Okay, I know they're not tolerated at all. I know this hurts because MP Sasa Radulovic wrote at least what. Now, listen to this, it's a violation of Article 162 you're reading it as one amendment should look. Well, you gentlemen from Enough was a little bit of a read. Learn something. Don't lecture us. So he was saying something about textbooks all day. We had to pay for textbooks, our moms and dads during Tito. So he cheats on Serbian citizens all the time. And now the other side writes like this, what he wants with, as free textbooks to correct. He says – The Office for Quality Assessment, Education and Education under the Centre for National Examining is performing the following professional tasks: creating and maintaining banks of tasks for national examination. (Alexandra Jerkov: You can see the time. If it's about time, it's about you. ) Time can be viewed by the honourable emissaries of Alexander Jerkov. If that's the only argument for the nonsense and nonsense that we owe you two days to listen to and the Serbian citizens wanted to hear a serious debate about two serious laws. Thank you. (Dusan Pavlovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20954	Please do not interrupt the People's Parliament when it speaks and points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I don't see what's so hard to throw. Why are you nervous? It is a little later. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20955	That I should ask, because I believe that several hundred amendments have been written that are not at all in accordance with Article 162 and that the dignity of Parliament has been violated because someone in this way refers to the laws that determine the fate of the employees of the school, children and parents of these children. I'm asking you to vote. (Vladimir Djuric: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20956	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You must agree Dusan Pavlovic or Vladimir Djuric Vladimir Djuric. [[Vladimir Djuric: I was the first to look for a replica.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20957	Member of the 107th insult of Parliament's dignity. So no one can, nor can Maja Gojkovic, as speaker of the assembly, call the debate of MPs nonsense and nonsense. That's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20958	Talk to me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20959	You've extended her time. She had a minute and 57 seconds from her MP group. You let her talk for two minutes longer. After you reset her time, you gave her a breach of the Rules of Procedure, didn't tell her by which member. That's something you're disallowing the opposition, so don't even let the lady who owed the city of Novi Sad 300 million dinars. (Maya Gojkovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. [[Disabled microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20960	Please don't abuse the pay phone. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20961	I ask the chairman, please, dear colleagues, I have no problem with the MPs insulting me because I said that their president of the parliamentary group can't write the amendment. Article 162, so you haven't even made it to 162 so that you know whether or not I'm talking about the violation of Rule 162 of the Rules of Procedure. So far we're stuck at 27, 104, 106, 103. He doesn't know how to write an amendment, but he knows that he's harassing parliament here, and when you tell him something here, he knows that he insults MP Maja Gojkovic. Thank you very much, but you will not take away my right to tell the citizens of Serbia how you treat parliament and how you treat the money of Serbian citizens, spend it for days, hours, and you know what's written on these papers. How many textbooks would you buy for this time we spend here on these amendments? (Alexandra Jerkov: Marinkovic, is that a violation of the Rules of Procedure? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20962	Please don't throw it away. I'll have to warn you, don't throw it away. Thank you. Wait for an explanation, don't be nervous. I'm sorry I can't speak from the bench, but simply no amendment, no explanation was related to what was proposed. Let's move on. Parliamentarians Dubravko Bojic, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic put together the title above the member and member of the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20963	Mr. Marinkovic, I guess I'll win the bet. I said that the debate on these two laws would come up with an amendment to Article 51 of the Law, and that's the concept in which everyone participates. Let's go back. Article 46 speaks about the Centre for International National Studies and Development and Research. I need to draw your attention to the fact that you've imagined this center as a special organization dealing with the affairs of the state administration. Of course, you inherited this. But, Mr. Sarčević, remember, it will help you in future work, sometimes in golden times it was precisely known who could communicate with abroad and then Minister Svilanovic came and said – there is no protection, we will communicate with the fax, and crypt protection and all secret documents no longer exist, it goes like this. Today you have a situation in Serbia that each institution has a special pass towards abroad. Some times it is justified, and many times it is burdened with intelligence and other actions. If you don't believe me, read the book "Vikliks Appears to me," and you will see all the garrisons from the government of the Republic of Serbia went to brainwashing, to file reports, and you have those big reports that blacken the name of the spies who work for them. When it comes to international co-operation, you keep as much control as possible that you are not put to sleep with stories of big money coming from the EU, there is nothing. Save the education system that suits us. Right away, let me remove one of the delusions that you have had the opportunity to hear, that he who is against Bologna is against our children. That's not true. Our education system needs to be more advanced in this educational academic sense in order for our children to be able to receive specialist and all other peripheral knowledge in order to overcome all other children. That's what this is about, that's the main thing. Make sure that this little bit of natural intelligence doesn't go away. And close this window as it lands.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20964	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20965	Ladies and gentlemen, since the situation has calmed down a little, as my contribution, I'm giving up an explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20966	Thank you. Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. National MP Branko Stamenkovic submitted to the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment, added after article 46, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20967	No, I don't want a word, but I want a breach of Rules of Procedure on Rule 163, that's Section 4. I can't believe the board of directors allowed such an amendment, because exactly in accordance with the previous Articles 161 and 162 the amendment is said to look like. I really believe that you have injured the Rules of Procedure as president for allowing the amendment of Sasa Radulovic to look like this. So this is the 200th, 300 amendments to Saša Radulovic, in which he repeated the text of the previous two hundred amendments to the draft law of the Center for International Studies and Development and Research. So, I'm interested, I'm asking the secretary general to inform parliament how many sessions of this kind after 18 hours cost Serbian citizens, so we know how many textbooks we could buy for the money we spent these days.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20968	Thank you. Alexandra Jerkov, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20969	Article 103, Mr. Chairman, which states that the MP may point to the chairman in his conduct immediately after the injury was committed, at the session at which he was held. Maja Gojkovic is transferring you to something that happened on the board two or three days ago and it didn't happen at this session right now. Besides, she calls you president of the assembly, and she's president of the assembly. According to other members of our Rules of Procedure, she should not have put an act on the agenda that was not prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, if there are any failures, she's guilty of them, and now she can't point it out, because these failures came two days ago at the Committee session, not now that she's misusing the right to point out just because she's obviously allowed everything in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20970	Col. Jerkov, the president of parliament, does not mean that as a national MP he cannot point out and has no right to point to any failure and violation of the Rules of Procedure. There's no need for discrimination. Thank you. Let's move on. Maja Gojkovic. (Tatyana Macura: On what basis? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20971	Let them yell, don't let me talk, it's no problem at all. It's not a problem. The letter itself said – after a direct injury. A direct violation is a discussion of an amendment that does not comply with the law and does not require that a member of the law to be amended, such as 200, 300 amendments. Let the messengers see. It's not a problem, but you didn't ask me, Chairman, if I wanted to plead my injury to the Rules of Procedure, but you gave the word to Alexandra Jerkov. I know she can't stand me, she can't stand me when I'm talking, but I'm only telling the truth. This is a pointless few hundred amendments. Serbian citizens need to know the truth. Serbian citizens need to know the truth. It's a humiliation to parliament and we're all witnesses. I waited for Sasa Radulovic to talk for hours and hours for two days to show what his amendments look like because Marijana Risticevic said these MPs across the street that she had no right to put the score, and their president is doing this. So, parliament is being humiliated and I demand that we vote on it. It's not your fault, but parliament has to vote once on the conduct of the MPs who are leading you to do this.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20972	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20973	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, 161, 162, 163 and 107, the dignity of the National Assembly. Imagine, my fellow Members, the Assembly never knows, MPs do not know whether the amendment will be voted or not, it is the correction of one member of the law, that member. Now imagine, fortunately, better to say by accident, we adopt the amendments of Saša Radulovic, to adopt 1, 2, to Article 3, to Article 4, to Article 5. The amendments to the methodologically must be correct, that if we adopt them, they must be incorporated into the law. If there's a slight disagreement, then the board agrees with its amendment. Now imagine if each member were to adopt the amendment of Saša Radulovic, that is the right of the Assembly, to what that law would look like. That's why I think it's justifiable intervention, and that injury is happening right now and right now, because we can't know, I'm not a member of that committee, we can't know what the board has done before. Now let's see that the chairman puts this into debate in particular, and that's why I'm saying and I ask that it be voted on, that there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure right now because methodologically incorrect amendments were released in the process and if they were adopted, and the law of the Assembly is to adopt all these amendments, the law would not look like anything, it would not be enforceable because it would be composed of 200 identical members. I hope these college-educated professors from the Faculty of Political Sciences have learned something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20974	Thank you. The word is Maja Gojkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20975	Thank you. Honorable lawyer and MP Konstantinovic, he's a lawyer, he'll understand me. Article 164 of the draft law, i.e. the authorised representative of the legislator and the committee responsible, shall consider amendments submitted to the draft law and propose to the National Assembly which amends it to accept, which it rejects. (Alexandra Jerkov: When this is done.) Yes, it's done, Mrs. Jerkov, the emperor is naked. We waited two days to say the Emperor was naked. I thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by noise you will not intimidate anyone. I thank you, Minister, for not accepting these amendments because they would lead parliament into a terrible problem. We would adopt 300 amendments that have nothing to do with life, which speak 300 of the same amendments, which have nothing to do with a matter that allegedly needs to be corrected by these amendments. We would have 300 times the amendment that says that children have the right to education, which is also written in the Constitution, and that in preschool institutions one tutor can run a group of 15 children, sometimes write 20 children, but then you would delete for example. What it means and what it means is the Centre for International National Studies and Development Research. Thank you for refusing these amendments, but the board must make sure no one behaves like this and neither does Sasa Radulovic. This is nonsense, this cannot be allowed by a parliament that holds onto itself and tells parents how they will get free textbooks, and in fact, two days of playing with us and playing with the possibility of writing laws, that we as MPs behave responsibly, to propose amendments that can fix matter. Thank you very much and I demand that you vote, as a reminder of what happened in this House with these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20976	Thank you. The People's Messenger LJupka Mihajlovska, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20977	Article 32. - Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly are helping the president of the National Assembly do business from his work. I believe, Mr. Marinkovic, that you are uncomfortable with respect for your coalition partners, to explain to the president what they are working on, that I will be very happy to help you. It is that at the beginning of this call we tried to point out the shortcomings of the Rules of Procedure, but that we were constantly getting an argument – well, we didn't bring it, they brought it before us. We are now, by your means, showing what it looks like when the bad Rules of Procedure is devising the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So if someone doesn't understand what we're doing tonight, here's how the President of the Assembly behaves, you've had citizens to see, wave papers in front of the camera that's on, so we're just showing here how you've been making violence on us for a year now, applying this bad Rules of Procedure, so we've just tried to explain to you and the citizens why it doesn't make sense to you and why it's necessary to change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-09-26-0.u20978	Thank you, MPs. Thank you very much, you helped, and you yourself admitted that you wanted to play this parliament, that you deliberately wrote hundreds of amendments with exactly the same text regardless of the text of the bill. It is my duty to take care of this House and what sessions will look like. The MP group has done enough to make a circus out of this House. You've made a circus. Three hundred amendments with the same text that do not correspond at all to the text of the bill or to the members you wish to amend. This is a disgrace to a parliament. I think we've worked hard for today. I think we told the citizens of Serbia what the real truth is. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you very much, and I ask the secretary general to tell me how much this extension of the session cost so that we can tell the citizens of Serbia how many free textbooks their children could get if it wasn't for Sasa Radulovic. Thank you very much. (Alexandra Jerkov: Please stop.) You're making a circus. I will stop, MP Jerkov, but you will not make a circus out of this House. You've been running the New Now City Assembly for two weeks, showing everything you knew. I'll read you 400 amendments tomorrow, that Serbian citizens laugh as it seems. Thank you. Dear MPs, we continue our work. According to my records, I have 87 MPs. Please insert your identification cards into the Members of the Electronic System in order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall and we can continue our work. The amendment, which is added after article 46a, was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Just a moment, so I know what I'm finishing and when I'm done. What's this? The word is Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
