ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28268	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 74 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue the search in detail of the 5th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that we have called for today's session to be attended by all members of the Government with their teams. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zarko Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28269	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wanted to point out with this amendment the importance of planning investment in the 2018 budget. The 2018 budget plans 15 billion dinars to boost the economy and subsidies to investors. Just thanks to these subsidies, which are fiercely criticised by the opposition, Aleksandar Vucic opened over 60 factories in Serbia in two years, and I will list some of the "Leir" factories in Novi Sad, which currently employs over 1,200 people and employs 2,000 people; the Delf factory in Novi Sad, which currently employs 2,000 people and will be employed by 3,000 people; the Hankel factory in Kruševec, which invests 21m euros, 220 people employs; the Johnson Electric, a company that operates in more than 30 countries and has over 30,000 employees around the world, has opened the plant in Nis, with investments of 20m euros, and 250 new jobs; the "Cuper Standard" auto industry in Sremska Mitrovica, part of the "Cuper Standard Group" that operates in more than 19 countries, has an investment of as much as $25,000, with the government of the Republic of Serbia, which has provided more than two million for its employees. I'll talk to you later in further amendments on investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28270	Thank you, colleague Michin. The word has Professor Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28271	I fully support the amendment proposed by my colleague, and I would suggest that the Government take care of poor municipalities when planning these investments. Let's say, the Black Grass municipality, which, with 180 million years of budgets, is trying to survive, even making some savings. A lot of things have been done up there and we have a promise from the ministers. For example, Zorana Mihajlovic promised me that one time would end, and I hope that fellow Djordjevic will also help in his area. On the other hand, the City of Belgrade honored the neimamares of the Black Trava, i.e. the Montenegrins, and a decision was made to raise a monument to the nemarcat on the return plateau. I hope that the government will have the same understanding and that these undeveloped ends will get the opportunity to survive at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28272	Thank you, Professor. Stojmirovic. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28273	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, my amendment to Article 9 refers to improving the position of the most vulnerable social groups, and to their full involvement in all social life flows. Unlike the former regime, DS, which has been distracted by children, i.e. from children with disabilities, kidnapped 1.5m euros for the construction of the "Hatterland" castle, of course, the money was taken from children, the children remained victims of the money being robbed, and the "Hatterland" castle today seems to be today, respected citizens, like this, one ordinary ruins grew up in weeds, the SNS and this government are in a completely responsible way taking care of the most vulnerable social groups, children without parental ageing, children with disabilities and developmental disabilities, children from family users of financial social assistance, thus allowing their full free inclusion in preschool institutions. Certainly, the SNS supports the government, because including all children under equal conditions, regardless of their material, family status, regardless of their properties, is aimed at reduced poverty. One more thing I have to point out, and what this government has done, which the SNS supports, is to ensure that all high school students get a double child's allowance in September to support increased child involvement in secondary education, because increasing education reduces poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28274	Thank you. The People's MP Vesna Rakonjac submitted to the 9th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Darko Laketić. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28275	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, namely, Article 9. The Budgetary System Act is currently talking about money from budgets belonging to local self-governments and not only these funds, but also about money belonging to direct and indirect users of local self-government budgets. In fact, each local self-government defines one part of the means of education, i.e. education and what is important is that the efficiency and success of each local self-government is seen, above all, in this area. It is seen whether recovery, reconstruction, repair of all schools, all facilities, all institutions that belong to education are practically from preschool work and segments of education to cultural institutions. I can really boast that we have succeeded in the municipality of Prokuplje that, partly from our own resources, and most of all from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and through the Public Investment Office, we have to do and reconstruct all schools, so that I have practically the best facilities in southern Serbia, thanks to these funds. In addition, I must also commend the ministry that deals with population policy, the Ministry without portfolios, led by Mrs Slavica Djukić Dejanovic, where, above all, she had great understanding that a good part of the funds from her ministry came to Prokuplje and we are today practically finishing a new facility thanks to these funds and problems we have in the capacity of pre-school institutions in this way we will overcome together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28276	Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. The word is Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28277	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers from ministries, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, my amendment reads - planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget is realised to the greatest extent possible to improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia. The aim of this amendment is to strengthen and improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia through a legal solution. The government of the Republic of Serbia is the focus and priority of education. As far as this government and the SNS are concerned with it, the following information speaks. To keep young scientists and other highly qualified educated personnel, the government has decided to build apartments throughout the Republic of Serbia under very favourable conditions. Unlike Gilas' apartments, which cost between 980 and 1250 euros, which is a real and normal market price in the city of Belgrade, we have allocated funds for the same apartments and the apartments will cost about 550 euros. As for the rest of Serbia, it will be cheaper. Good for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What I would further point out is that the construction of two million square meters, which is about 25 thousand apartments, is announced, and should be completed in 10 to 12 years, and the first apartments will be completed in three to four years. This will solve the housing issue of about 260,000 people. That's how the government is responsible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28278	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was submitted by Krsto Janjušević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Krsto Janjušević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28279	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is in the role of developing the economy. As the new signed share of Preljina-Požega continues the path of LJig-Preljina, so I consider this budget for 2018 to continue well on this good implementation and good budget in 2017, the path leading to the period 2018-2020. the year, where a cumulative GDP growth rate of 11.4% was projected at the end of the period, and at the end of this period an unemployment rate of around 8% is expected, the EU average. This is also the subject of figures, concrete data: in 2012 employment rate 35.5%, 2013 37.7%, 2014 42%, 2015 42.5%, 2016 46.8%, 2017 48.2%. Unemployment rate: 23.9% in 2012, 22.1% in 2014, 19.2% in 2015 17.7% in 2016 13.8% in 2017 12.9%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28280	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Muamer Bacevac, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28281	I am pleased that this government and this ministry pay considerable attention to the future industrial development of this country and, of course, as a prerequisite for any development, is to provide quality infrastructure. The previous speaker mentioned Corridor 11, which was started. The pieces have already been made, done, but the complete course has been established and it is already known that it will connect with the Bolsars, that it will cross the cave high, and it is really random for the end from which I come. The entire route of this time will be practically halted by emigration and migration, as these regions have so far relaxed this way of restoring and creating new road infrastructure is indeed the first step in the recovery and population, but also the future development that this region must experience.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28282	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Miodrag Lint, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28283	I will talk about an amendment relating to resolving the problem of Serbs in the region. In fact, from the Federation of BiH, I have already said, more than half a million Serbs have been expelled. According to the 1991 census, more than 570,000 Serbs lived in the Federation of BiH. According to the latest 2013 census, only 56,000 Serbs live in the Federation of BiH. The difference between the two lists is best said it was a systematic ethnic cleansing of Serbs from the Federation of BiH. Many Serbs have tried to exercise their rights by applying for reconstruction and damages. Unfortunately, the BiH judiciary is an ethnically motivated judiciary. The Serbs failed with individual lawsuits or collective lawsuits to make compensation for the damages. Unfortunately, neither the BiH Refugees' competent ministry has rejected the requirements for reconstruction by constantly seeking new documents, new evidence. And, simply, people couldn't collect all that paperwork to get a renovation or, I repeat, damages. I'm only setting an example for one family. It is Radoje Mitrović from the village of Smoluće, the municipality of Lukavac in Tuzla canton, who left his house at the multi-story. Unfortunately, when he returned, the house was completely destroyed. He also tried the renewal request, tried the damage claim. Unfortunately, that's not what he did. We have even one case of the Regional Association for Refugees and Displaced Persons from Bijeljina, who have filed 3,500 collective claims for damages. That's not what they did. So, Serbs, exiled Serbs from the Federation of BiH cannot, unfortunately, exercise their basic rights, nor the right to rebuild, nor the right to compensation for damages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28284	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28285	The amendment concerns the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment is to Article 9. He primarily concerns Article 61. Budgetary system law. Thanks to macroeconomic parameters, the fiscal policy being conducted responsibly, the government of the Republic of Serbia has not rebalanced the republican budget in the last three years. It just says how responsible the government has been, transparently and clearly planning expenditures, while also planning revenues in the Republic of Serbia's budget. And, when we discussed a few days ago the amending budget law for 2017, it was not essentially a matter of rebalancing, because Article 63 clearly states that only the changes in the budgets involve budget rebalancing. With this member, we are now allowing local administrations, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to direct users of the budget, that when they come into the situation that there are changes in the appraisal during the year, let's not do it now at 5% of the projected appraisal, but we do it at 10%. It's a normal and normal thing. Direct customers in favour of the Republic of Serbia's budget will need a decision from the government of the Republic of Serbia. Direct customers on local budgets will need a decision from a local financial authority. All this means is that this system will only be more transparent, clearer and precise. Of course, there's our idea that the fiscal system that we've put into order, and at the same time in the operational sense of monitoring the implementation of that system, works better. Our efforts are clear that this system must be continuously upgraded, changed and made to make the budget of the Republic of Serbia and local authorities as efficient as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28286	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the 9th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28287	I will talk about an amendment relating to resolving numerous Serb problems in the region. I particularly want to highlight the tragic fact that numerous war crimes have been committed against Serbs and the Federation of BiH, both in the part of Republika Srpska and in Croatia. I will only list some of these crimes from the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska. A major crime titled "The Tuzla Column", then crimes against members of JNA in Dobrovoljajska Street in Sarajevo, a number of crimes against Serbs in Sarajevo by so-called. The BiH Army. According to the Alliance of Republika Srpska campers, there were 126 Serb camps in Sarajevo alone. Then, the major crimes of the 5th BiH Army Corps in the area of 13 western Krajina municipalities, not to mention the crimes in Srebrenica where the forces of Naser Oric killed more than 3,000 Serbs. By the way, the public is talking about a false thesis that to God's Serbia has committed aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina. We now have the UN tribunal's final verdict to former leaders, so-called. Herceg-Bosnia where it was found that the aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina was carried out by the Republic of Croatia, namely that the organizer of the joint criminal enterprise was Franjo Tudjman with his associates. Otherwise, the first act of aggression against BiH was carried out by regular Croatian forces in 1992 when the Serb village of Sjekovac, in the Bosnian Brod municipality, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, massacred 70 Serb civilians, among them a significant number of children, women and old people. Unfortunately, the BiH judiciary is an ethnically motivated judiciary. That judiciary, unfortunately, does not have equal access to the processing of all war crimes. This is what is not good, and it is my appeal that the EU constantly insists that the BiH judiciary, as well as the Croatian judiciary, be an independent and impartial judiciary and that all war criminals, regardless of nationality, be punished, and all victims be equally respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28288	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nemanja Sarovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28289	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to ask Mr. Linto, who has submitted this amendment, something to ask. These criminals who have expelled more than half a million Serbs, who have killed and slaughtered and committed crimes -- is it the army of Ali Izetbegovic or his son Bakir Izetbegovic, whom they support today and, if so, how is it possible that the president of the Republic of Serbia claims that relations between Serbia and BiH are idyllic?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28290	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28291	The government and the president of the Republic of Serbia run a serious and responsible policy aimed primarily at peace and stability in the region. The Republic of Serbia provides the hand of co-operation to both official Sarajevo and official Zagreb. Unfortunately, we see that there is no willingness in official Sarajevo to accept this hand of co-operation, there is no willingness for official Zagreb to accept this hand of co-operation, but this does not mean that the Republic of Serbia should give up its principled policy, whose goal is, above all, peace and stability, I repeat, with the aim of economic development, not only Serbia, but the whole region, attracting new investments and opening up many jobs. I believe that the international community, first of all, will recognise this serious and responsible policy by the EU and the United States, that it will abandon the policy of double arches towards the Western Balkans towards which Serbian war criminals, aggressors, and Albanians, Bosniaks, Croats of innocent victims who have waged liberating wars. I believe this policy will lead to this change in Western forces. If they really change their policy and introduce a policy of the same standards and if it is the same approach towards punishing war crimes and victims, I believe that we are then entering a phase of genuine co-operation, with the desire that citizens really live in this space better in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28292	Thank you. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Bojan the Bag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28293	The President-in-Office, gentlemen of Ministers, this amendment proposes that planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the budget be realised so that it is to the greatest extent possible to be in the role of reducing poverty as the legacy of the former regime. As it is clear to all, the most efficient fight against poverty is the investment, the opening of new jobs, and just as it is done today in Novi Sad during the term of one of the best mayors that Novi Sad had, Milos Vučevic, just as counterpart Zarko Micin just spoke. As it was during the former regime, we will be presented with an example of former Mayor of Novi Sad Borislav Novakovic, who was in 2011, 2012, while serving as Director of the Public Enterprise of the City Construction Institute. During the construction of the New Sad Boulevard of Europe, it allowed the owner of the Borovica Transport company, Dusan Borovica, to obtain fourm euros and thereby damage the New Sad city budget. By the way, Borislav Novakovic was known to the general public as a Thessaloniki fighter, an MP who, in addition to the fact that he was on his official trip to Thessaloniki on 3 December 2001 in an unexplainable way in this house managed to vote for the adoption of the shameful DOS Labour Act. Novakovic, along with his former assistant for general affairs, illegally allowed "Borovica Transport" to acquire qualifications and participate in the second phase of the restrictive procedure. On the basis of all this, Novakovic concluded two contracts with "Borovica Transport", although he knew this company did not meet the conditions for carrying out works on the last part of the construction of the New Sad Boulevard of Europe. The need for advance payment was then issued, knowing that there is no legal basis for such use, or that no other necessary bank guarantee was provided for its execution, and in this way, illegal, "Borica Transport" was introduced into the business itself. In this way, officials of the "yellow cartel" obtained the property benefit of the "Borovica Transport", and probably four million euros to themselves, and at the expense of the New Sad city budget, which had to provide new funds even after the arrival of the new city government to finally complete the Bulevara Europe project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28294	Thank you. National MP Veroljub Arsic submitted to the 9th amendment. Here you go, colleague Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment concerns financial institutions and their efficiency. In yesterday we discussed how our financial institutions functioned. One of our financial institutions was "Agrobanka" who, by some miracle, passed a revision of his business and then signed the National Bank Governor's Council, my esteemed last name, Milojko Arsic, and said that everything was fine in 2011 so that we could go to one crazy crime cover-up in the "Agrobanki" itself by the state broadcasting its bonds to capitalise "Agrobanke". Finally, the review report, which was my esteemed last namer Arsic, then a member of the National Bank Governor's Council, turned out to be a fake, signed a false report and that Agrobank damaged its shareholders for about a billion euros, counting also the deficits. This is essentially one of those links as the public debt was created between 2012 and 2013. A billion euros, how much damage did Agrobank amount to over 3% of that gross income, well, my esteemed colleagues, who keep mentioning some figures, how well they ruled Serbia, especially from the former regime, I am now asking them -- how much could pensions be paid for a billion euros, which disappeared from Agrobank? How many schools could be reconstructed and made for a billion euros. How many preschools could kindergarten be made? That's funny to you. Okay. How many kilometers of highways could a billion euros have been made? How many kilometers of track could it be reconstructed and built for a billion euros? What are the interest on the loans that we had to raise and pay out of that billion euros? And one question for the minister -- if through Agrobanks they hadn't robbed those billions of euros, those of the former regime, would we have had to reduce pensions and public sector employees in fiscal consolidation?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28296	Thank you, colleague Arsic. National MP Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Here's a colleague of Vujadinović's.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28297	Thank you, Chairman. The amendment I have made is in the role of strengthening the fight against crime and corruption. Our people say that history is a teacher of life, and if you don't know what was in the past, you can hardly plan a future. First of all, it is a great pleasure for me to have MPs from the opposition come here today to hear what we have to say to them, to earn their salary, to do what the people have delegated them for, since I must say, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, that most of this session has not been held in the hall. How did that work in some recent past, until last year in the AP Vojvodina? Here's what I'm going to say on one case-- if the government in Vojvodina, led by that yellow criminal political cartel, was going to...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28298	My colleague, please don't do that terminology. Cartels and that, you can do anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28299	Chairman, I'm merely giving the facts. Whether someone in those facts is recognized or not, it's his business. If they were to rob the budget of the people of Vojvodina, they would normally form a variety of funds. That's what he's like. was a fund to subsidize new technologies. The labour principle was next, the fund allocated 35m euros during its existence, allocations money to the company to buy some new technology. This company, of course, buys under the cloak of this new technology of some old machine, employs a certain number of workers. As soon as the money is taken over, the company goes bankrupt, closes, workers are fired, and the money is never returned to the fund. Of course, to assume who was involved in this business, since corporate owners were, as a rule, people close to the government at the time. Now, just one example of how it worked in the past, and the amendment is in the function of that and when it comes to the Budgetary System Act and when it comes to some other laws, that it would never happen to us again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28300	Thank you. A fellow Milojicic called. On what grounds? You have no basis for replication. (Radoslav Milojic: Rules of Procedure. Come on, let's get to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28301	Mr. Marinkovic, I have asked for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, it is my responsibility that every speaker respects the dignity of the National Assembly. I think you've heard what's said, what disgusting lies and okay, but then let us speak the same rhetoric here on this side. It's not normal and it's not democratic and it's not allowed for anyone to speak this way and it's not true, and we can't talk that way and the truth about the SNS cartel. So have the same arches to everyone please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28302	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. I warned my colleague Vujadinović about the mention of words – cartel. I don't think we should mention her, except in terms of some economic business cartel, so she doesn't interpret herself differently. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. Thank you. National MP Blaža Knezevic submitted to the 9th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28303	I thank the chairman. Infrastructure is the key to development for our country, connecting with other countries and, of course, it increases the competitiveness of our economy. This means that the state of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia must continue to develop infrastructure. Of course, good infrastructure guarantees and inflows of new investments and, of course, the creation of new jobs. This government of the Republic of Serbia as well as the previous one understood this perfectly and set up infrastructure as one of the priorities, as seen in this budget, of course. Serbia has a central strategic position in the region and geographically, and since its arrival at SNS and political power. It's being built in Serbia. These aren't just stories like the old days when the government is DS and we've been listening to all kinds of false ideas and unfulfilled visions. This is today Serbia where clear plans exist, clear deadlines, and the value of projects in the area of infrastructure is current and planned 12 billion euros. The aim of the state of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia is for Serbia to be a network of corridors, well connected with its neighbours, and therefore I cannot understand such malice and cynicism for all that is good and what is well done in the Republic of Serbia, and that is indeed a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28304	Thank you, my fellow Prince. The 9th Amendment was filed by MP Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28305	Thank you. Dear Ministers, I have submitted an amendment to Article 9. The budget system law relying on the 2018 budget projection and the defined funds for the realisation of capital projects in 2018. So 128 billion dinars are defined for the realisation of capital projects and 41% for the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. So far, traffic has been released on Corridor 11 40.36km and on Corridor 10 85km of highways. It has been rehabilitated 192km of state roads through a road rehabilitation project and an improvement in traffic safety. Given that just building infrastructure and rebuilding existing infrastructure is a prerequisite for connecting with the region and attracting investors, opening new jobs and reducing unemployment, I fully support this strategy and the amendment is just relying on legal support for ensuring a level-based investment in all parts of Serbia, in all districts in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28306	Thank you. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 9th amendment. Here's my colleague Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28307	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, I have submitted to Article 9 of the amendment to this bill in order to strengthen the health system of the Republic of Serbia, and while some have destroyed Serbia's health system by 2012 and have robbed our country, today they are not ashamed to point at us without a shred of shame, and we are fortunately without any shame because we have stopped the collapse of Serbia's health system and are trying to bring Serbia back to healthy feet, which, behold, thank God, comes out of hand. Otherwise, this government not only cares about the health system, but also about the population policy of the Republic of Serbia, so in 2017, with good reform laws, we also passed the Biomedical Aided Fertilisation Act, where we move the age line from 40 to 42 years and give the opportunity for many women to come true just as mothers. I would also add to this opportunity that the Kruševac City's Budget Fund for Population Policy, where I come from, has allocated large funds to these purposes, so that from year to year these funds increase to happiness for those people who, unfortunately, have to go through these biomedically helped fertilisations to be achieved as parents. That's why we have citizens' support and we're moving forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28308	Thank you, Dr. Barisic. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28309	The development of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen who are subject and subject to this amendment deserves support in every way and also in the implementation of the budget. I am pleased to find that such support already exists. This is, of course, a reality in a serious and responsible state where the government really cares about the results for the state and its citizens, which cannot be compared to the situation we had at the time of that "yellow company" or the economic cartel, as you said, Mr. Chairman. It is also pictured through concrete results in, say, health care as Mrs Barisic mentioned and through the Clinical Centre in Nis, but not only in Nis, but also through 4,000 thousand new jobs for health workers and through modernisation projects in the sector that Mr. Krsto Janjusevic spoke of, for example, the pilot project "e-recept". But not only in this sector, of course, development projects such as the project initiated personally by the president of the state, Mr. Vukic, which concerns building apartments with the popular price of squares, are certainly important and will certainly be welcomed by the citizens of Serbia. Indeed, it is expected to receive only support, exclusively support and representatives of the people in this high House. The price of about 500 euros per square is more than popular. In certain parts of our country, so outside Belgrade, that price will be lower, I believe it is only commendable and in this sense I express a certain surprise that some have expressed some critical views and views on the fact that it can be lower than 500 euros. I guess it's only better for citizens, of course. According to James Rufus, the head of the IMF mission in Serbia, to achieve good results, it is also seen on the basis of an increase in citizens' income through, I quote his words – a reasonable increase in pensions and a significant increase in wages. These are all good indications that Serbia is becoming a modern country, certainly anything different from that DOS Palanca that some have only been able to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28310	Thank you. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here's a colleague of Markovic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28311	I thank the chairman. So we continue, so Article 9. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Budgetary System, adding a new position – planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget is realised to the greatest extent possible in the function of modernising the Republic of Serbia. So we have heard from several previous amendments why the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia is important, so above all it is important because of the need for a more efficient and functional public administration and local self-government, and all in order to reduce the abuses we have had. Here we have instructed many examples from Smederevska Palanka and Vračar Municipality and many municipalities around Vojvodina and the AP Vojvodina. I would like to set another example here, to continue to discuss yesterday, when it comes to Vračar Municipality, where the apartments and the missing locals, thousands and thousands of squares of business space are missing, but when it comes to the exchange of immovableity, so we have an example in Vračar municipality, Smiljanic's 21. Vračar municipality has lost three acres of pay, three acres of building land that the municipality has agreed to build together. So the municipality gave three acres later so that when the project was built it would get squares in that location. Of course, however, the investor did not respect it, the municipality received nothing, and when proceedings were brought before the Commercial Court, the municipality had no money to charge. The municipality had no money to pay for maintaining the additional hearing. And, because she didn't have any money for a tax she practically gave up 63 million dinar damage, by accident, apparently. That's how the yellows destroyed and destroyed the Vashcar municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28312	Thank you. National MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mirčić, Miljan Damjanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarović, Sreto Perić, Petar Jojic and LJljana Mihailovic and the MP of the people, Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28313	These amendments to Article 10 of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act are absolutely unnecessary because you are here in Article 68b. the existing add that the processing of personality data will be in accordance with the law governing the protection of personal data. Since this law exists, it is absolutely unnecessary to persecute some other law and now, in every law, to write what is already in that roof law. You should have added then that all this would be in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Some things you know, they mean something, but you've obviously written these changes in agreement with the assembly majority in order for them to have as many opportunities to talk about the amendments as possible, to spend as much time as possible to discuss the amendments to the budget. I would like to remind you that yesterday a fellow official from power began his debate on 11th in line with his amendment. He said the same amendment, like the previous, same explanation. That's actually the point. After that, he continued for the first time in the history of government exploits. That's the essence of all these amendments. We heard everything here from representatives, MPs of the government, some songs were sung, or recited. Now everybody wants to compete for the best book of poetry, but that prize has already been awarded, so the waste is trying. Then one said Serbia is an economically mature country, which is really amazing. Then this one says that citizens have a judicial system that they must be satisfied with, and because of that judicial system, they won't even open that famous chapter to you. It's such a good judicial system today in Serbia. So when you praise those you support, try to make it a little more real. Then some turned around last night, started criticizing everything written on Twitter. It is simply amazing that fear of social networks, and they forget that all their officials have orders on Twitter and on other social networks. It's not a problem for those who have it, it's a problem for those who don't have it, who are afraid to open a warrant to hear from the famous and unknown people what they think of them and about their political functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28314	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28315	I could totally agree with your attitude this time. We did not want to suggest it at all, however, the Commissioner warned us that we do not have the right under the AFKOS activity to collect personal data if it is not written in the law. The whole point of this is just to satisfy that form. By the way, you're basically absolutely right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28316	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28317	Thank you. The Minister's request, that he then influences his government colleagues, also respect the recommendations made by the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, since we have already passed several laws which he has sharply criticised, which envisioned the collection of very delicate data on children, workers, people with different health problems and none of your colleagues appreciated it. Also, appeal to your colleagues in the government and to public companies that hide information that should be made available to the public under the law and do not follow the recommendations of the Commissioner, who is rarely led here by a real political hack. So, thank you for accepting his suggestion, but your government regularly ignores his suggestions when it comes to the protection of personal data and for citizens, too, when it comes to the availability of information of public importance. There is nothing to know about the concession for Nikola Tesla Airport. We're still inaccessible to the entire parts of all kinds of secret contracts. We cannot know why agricultural land is divided into Vojvodina. There are a whole series of secret contracts that cost citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the state authorities are willing to pay fines rather than give away information that costs the citizens of the Republic of Serbia again. That's probably why you predicted such a high amount of fines in the 2018 budget, although we heard from people who were working on an analysis of the budgets of earlier years, that you were rerouting those funds for penalties afterwards into budget reserves and sharing money from a bag.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28318	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28319	Let me start with your last finding. I wish you were right. Unfortunately, we have an excess of 30% for fines in the first eight months of this year. So, we've been adding, but to punishment, not taking from there. I agree with the fact that this should be reconsidered, why the amounts for penalties are so large from the idea of keeping records, because the intended lawsuits to seek out extrajudicial alignment in those situations where we are certainly wrong and where we lose our disputes, until the execution of where we pay unnecessary costs of execution, that's where I completely agree. We, in the domain of our ministry, are trying to comply with all applicable personal data protection regulations. We've had this problem a long time ago, about what was written in this law, that some things are being arranged by sublegal acts, and then we're still being distracted so that sublegal acts can't collect personality data. We just want to provide a legal basis here for what AFKOS has to do, and otherwise I support you in your efforts to have the necessary degree of transparency in everything we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28320	Thank you, Minister. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28321	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, when the mailman's trustee thinks he's a police officer, when he makes political statements, when he says that the MP is a lying liar, it's not exactly a trustee, it kind of looks like a political conspiracy to you. Fortunately, we've already got rid of the protector and protector. EU funds, which should be spent carefully for economic development, create additional values. This country and its citizens should live off the surplus, on extra value, on the distribution of surpluses, and not on distributions. The former regime, a joint criminal enterprise, they lived on redistribution, redistribution of poverty, and we have to turn to exports and funds used in agriculture, energy and processing industry, because only industry can withdraw agriculture and anything farmers produce in the fields, using green energy, workers need to process in factories and have enough money, and bread, and jobs for all the population. These funds should be used for this purpose, they should not, and the report will be submitted to the National Assembly, they should not do what these lost ones did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28322	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28323	Thank you, Chairman. I wanted to commend the government for proposing such a member, and our amendment was to only do a little more language work and to highlight the need to report, which will now be delivered to the Assembly, which is good and what we are looking for in a number of government laws, largely does not accept, when we ask as an amendment, delivering to the Assembly for consideration. I can understand that perhaps our amendments and suggestions may have gone too far into some detail. In any case, the amendment of this article is good, as would be good, and all these amendments we have been listening to all day, Mr. Minister, that although they do not make sense with the Budgetary System Act, the Government accepts them, in the end, to vote. I sincerely hope that MPs of the ruling majority will be persistent and that, when they do not withdraw these amendments from the procedure, they will vote for them, making one good, much better law on the budgetary system, because all these amendments are good. What's not good, what we've been hearing from the ruling junta for three days now, is things that say they're in the budget, and they're not in the budget. Here, let's say a story about some apartments for 500 euros square, which will be built over the next 10 years. I'd like to come to the debate on the Budget Law in particular and see where, at which point in the budget, there's money for the project. You can't find that anywhere. To take the biggest bat, to try to read what the government sent us, you can't find it. But what can you find? You can find threem euros for a gondola next year in Belgrade, and sevenm euros planned for all Serbian citizens for a dim gondola project in Belgrade. Once again, I call upon fellow Members of Parliament, let us take this money, from this diabolical project, change the Law of Insemination, let the couples, not only have the right to one child financed from the budget in artificial insemination, but also for the second and third. In doing so, of these 10 and 15m euros, we can make 5,000 babies in Serbia. Let's use that money more wisely.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28324	Thank you, colleague Giurisic. Just one suggestion, as I said to the previous MP, Milimir Vujadinović and Mr Milojic, please do not use the words of the type – junta. You know what that means, that's a very offensive word. We are no junta, nor is this August Pinochet's time, but we are one democratic state. I ask you to adhere to the basic civilization rules and values in this House. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic submitted to the 10th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28325	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see that for the third day already, what's called the opposition in Serbia, the fact that SNS MPs have submitted a large number of amendments. By the way, it is not true that they are sitting here for two days, not all day yesterday, one to two MPs, I think there were more ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia, but all MPs from the opposition together. So, what I'm trying to say is, if you think someone's afraid of you, you with your hands in your pockets and you who say we're a military junta, I'll tell you one thing as president of the parliamentary group. There will be so many SNS amendments at each session in the future, because we will show you through these amendments what policy is and what SNS and our coalition partners are like, and you are crying for the will. Snooze until the will of Oliver Jovicevic, along with Yugoslavia's Cosic, along with the leaders, makeup girls, bloggers and other leaders of your opposition parties. Are we gonna make it to the budget or not? That doesn't depend on the SNS. You have experienced a debacle in the 2014 elections, 2016, 2017, and you have the time to argue as much as the people have given you and it is not SNS' fault for you. Since I don't want to spend too much time, yesterday a colleague said that they had some generals in their ranks. Here, a general called, Lieutenant General Petar Radojcic, who questions the government of the Republic of Serbia's policy and says - self-proclaimed military neutrality, otherwise it is the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia, is an unfounded and internationally unrecognizable form with unclear content. He advocates, and the party he belongs to, to accept NATO standards and co-operation and membership in the alliance. This says, however, requires significant funds, but much less than the military neutrality of the Republic of Serbia. It is those who have told us for days that we from the SNS and the SPS have caused some wars in the former Yugoslavia, that we are guilty of the collapse of the former Yugoslavia, and in their ranks there are people who openly advocate entering the alliance that bombed the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28326	Thank you. The word is Dr Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28327	I just wanted to add one piece of information. You asked where the funds were to support the entire area of housing. We had an amendment on the Committee that had already been adopted and became an integral part of the proposal to be discussed after this law, where a billion were added to the "encos" administration and to support the financing of the first apartments. It'll be the subject of discussion later. (Marko Djurisic: 500 euros? ) I didn't say that, I said in the area of housing a billion to support the first apartments, where I suppose most of them will be qualified for that kind of help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28328	Thank you. A colleague named Djurisic called, but you do not have the right to reply, you are not mentioned, nor is the president of your party. You can pick up the amendment. (Marco Djurisic: No, I want to go by the Rules of Procedure. Well, I can't do that. Well, you can't choose. [[Marko Djurisic: I was looking for a replica. If you don't want a replica, then according to the Rules of Procedure.)]] We don't have a menu here. (Marco Djurisic: I don't choose, I seek the violation of the Rules of Procedure. No, let's move on. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic submitted to the 10th amendment. (Marco Djurisic: A Rules of Procedure! Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28329	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the strong financial basis for the judicial system implies the development of many of the components that this judicial system is making. We saw from Prime Minister Ana Brnabic's exposé that special attention is also being paid to improving the e-Justice. The digitalisation process will improve the functioning of the judicial system by achieving three objectives. The central daily report on the work of all judicial authorities, with a tendency to centralise all registers and records, the introduction of an electronic delivery system and electronic advertising boards of courts, which will lead to large budget savings, as the state authorities will communicate by electronic exchange of data. Also, the possibility of communicating parties in the court process will result in budget savings. Improving the work of the state's defence office will lead to greater legal certainty and a better legal and business climate in Serbia. It is very important to view all the different components related to the judicial system as one continent and to make a strong financial basis for the development of each of these components, so that the improvement goes in the planned direction, and all with a view to making citizens feel safer, to feel better and easier to exercise their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28330	According to the Rules of Procedure, Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28331	Dear Chairman, I believe you have violated Article 104 when you have not given me the right to a replica. The right to replica is obtained in the following cases. Here, let me read... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28332	Comrade Giurishich, I beg your pardon... (Marko Djurisic: Let me finish.) I will, it's not a problem, but I'm asking you to understand. And to you it is clear that you know well as an experienced messenger that you cannot choose on what basis you will answer. So you were looking for a replica, I had no basis for giving you a replica, and now you're advertising the Rules of Procedure on something that was in the previous amendment. I can't do that, I can't make a circus out of parliament. (Marco Djurisic: Can I have the word, so I'll explain everything to you when you turn the microphone on. No, because you started... (Marco Djurisic: You must give me your word.) I don't have to give you my word. (Marco Djurisic: You must give me your word.) I don't have to give you my word. Marko Djurisic: You must. I asked you to understand, you don't want to. (Marko Djurisic: Article 103, infringement of the Rules of Procedure. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28333	I thank you, Chairman. This amendment also refers to budget planning and to 15 billion dinars planned for subsidies, I find the economy extremely important, as in 2018 it will also enable new factories to open, create new jobs and encourage our economic growth. You know, it's always good for citizens to know what it looked like in time, now I'd say yellow junta, but then I'd be just like them, I'd say yellow company. Do you know how they planned economic subsidies and how they treated the economy? For example, in 2009, they planned three billion dinars. So 12 billion dinars less than we planned. In 2010, they planned 3.5 billion, in 2011, three billion and 100 million, and in 2012, two billion and 790 million. That's how they were interested in the economy. In addition, this was seen in economic growth, GDP growth. If you look from 2008 to 2012, they totalled two billion and 100 million euros. During the SNS, between 2014 and 2016, the same GDP increased by over a billion and 300m euros. That's how they treated the economy, my lords. And not only that, if you look at foreign direct investment, I think that's a good indicator, in 2010, at a time of the yellow company, a billion and 133 million, so that in 2012, it would fall to 752 million. At the time of the SNS, 2015 billion and 803 million, 2016 billion and 899 million, and in 2017 over two billion euros of foreign direct investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28334	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go, colleague Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28335	Thank you. My amendment refers to improving the position of the most vulnerable social groups, and to their full involvement. I must point out that at the time of the government of Alexander Vukic, a large number of migrants passed through Serbia, Serbia was a route in the part of the Western Balkans, and more than a million migrants passed through our country. In fact, it was a large village of people who were affected by war events and, above all, in the area of Syria. During the migration crisis, the government of Aleksandar Vukic reacted in a timely and adequate manner to such an inflow of migrants, by making sure through the networking of all institutions in the government, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Labour, the Commissioner for Refugees and the Red Cross of Serbia, but of course also civil society, that one humane policy, first of all, was directed towards migrants, a policy where we could be envied and more developed by Western European countries. During the conduct of such a policy, the security and security of every migrant, but also the safety and safety of the host population, have been ensured. What I particularly want to point out is that the government of Aleksandra Vukic has given a special accent to protect the children of migrants without parental escort and to those children, through the Ministry of Labour, full family and legal protection has been provided in the exercise of all their rights, as well as their children from the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This government continues to run a human, timely and adequate policy towards migrants. The Serbian Progressive Party certainly supports such a policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28336	Thank you. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Rakonjac. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Dr Darko Laketic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28337	President-in-Office, honourable ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, Article 10. The budget system law is currently talking about investment, i.e. investment in funds. We can say that one of the most significant investment funds is just investing in municipal infrastructure. Namely, Article 2. It is prescribed that the local self-government unit is required to create conditions for ensuring the proper quality, scope, availability and continuity of municipal activity, and that the communal activities are of general interest. Namely, the problem of infrastructure is one significant problem which, with the problem of municipal activity, i.e. the problem of quality, volume and availability of municipal services, is one of the most significant problems in the local region, and thus also in the country as a whole. First of all, in local self - administrations, which are extremely diverged by their geographical space, there is a major problem of water supply. Today in Serbia, we still have villages so-called The rural waterways, which are either not controlled or rarely controlled, and, above all, the investment of budget funds, as well as the funds of local self-government for this purpose and for this purpose, I think it should be a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28338	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go, Mrs. Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28339	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with co-workers from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, my amendment reads: "Planning, preparing, adopting and implementing the Republic of Serbia's budget is realised to the greatest extent possible to improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia". The objective of this amendment is to strengthen and improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia through a legal solution. The government's task is to realise the availability and services that young people need to be curative and competitive on the global market, in order to find a job faster, faster and better. An example of good practice in Serbia is Petnica Research Station, as well as regional development across Serbia. Why is this good? Because young people, when they have free time, need to go to these research centres because they will master the skills that are necessary to get a faster job. Working, they can create a family, they can pay taxes, that's what we stand for, not that after the presidential elections, where we get 56% with our coalition partners, young people who think themselves educated come out on the street and when you ask them who Uros Predic is, who is Milutin Milankovic, who is Nadezhda Petrovic, they don't know. That's inadmissible. If you consider yourself an educated future intellectual, you simply need to know who is one Ducic, who is Ivo Andric. It's just necessary to know. These are the greats of the Republic of Serbia. When you're educated, then you know the difference between 400m euros and 100m euros, 400m euros costs Gilas' bridge on Ada, and 100m euros costs a bridge in China, which is longer and higher. I'm interested in where the $200 million goes, where they disappear. It's been said to be some expenses along the way, I'm not sure that's the case, but it should be addressed by the Anti-Corruption Agency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28340	Thank you. National MP Krsto Janjusevic submitted to the 10th amendment. The Cross of Janjušević has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28341	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, related to projects, capital projects the government has implemented throughout Serbia, and in particular two important projects planned in Belgrade, gondola and metro, which have been under way since 2020, and which have been attacked roughly as the Belgrade-Bar railway project was attacked when it was being built, and we have reconstructed it for the first time since. I believe that these two projects, both gondola and metro, that in the function of saving, as in the function of tourism, have a growth function, which means that each and the most distant municipality in Serbia will benefit from these two projects. One of the biggest affairs in Belgrade was malversion related to the purchase and installation of underground containers, where the budget was damaged by 169m dinars, 1,800 underground containers cost sixm euros. So that Gilas regime was unable to properly install an underground container, and they would run to install the subway. Perhaps they would have installed that subway, more specifically the subway, but it would have cost about as much as if they had built a Belgrade-Bar railway underground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28342	Thank you. National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 10th amendment. Here you go, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28343	Article 10 and this amendment concerns the draft law amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act. It refers to Article 10. A large number of amendments have also been submitted to this article, but it is a great pleasure in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia when MPs of the ruling coalition and MPs of opposition political parties accept that what the government is proposing is good. Although it is a small segment, it certainly says that the good things governments can be and that sometimes they are recognized by opposition political committees. Of course, when citizens of Serbia are watching today, sometimes rather professional debate, they don't have to understand what we're talking about today, but when you talk about macroeconomic stability and fiscal stability, then little citizens from my part of town, about 50,000 of them, where I live, where we have a dozen schools, recognize that in the last two years in that part of town, two physical halls have been made. Since 10 schools, we haven't had any. Fifty thousand people, 2015, 2016, made two school halls that generations of their fathers, even scarier their grandfathers, could not make them teach physical education at school, but did so in classrooms. It's macroeconomic stability. The macroeconomic stability and fiscal stability are also kilometers of highways being built, is all that has been done in the past two years, thanks primarily to stable fiscal policy and stable monetary policy, done in the state of Serbia. When we talk about the Budgetary System Act, when we talk about the Budget Law in 2018, when we talk about the budget today, we are actually from the ruling coalition fighting for new streets, new paved highways, new schools, that's what the SNS stands for.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28344	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word is Nemanja Sarovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28345	Mr. Marinkovic, article 106 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which he says - the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. The gentleman has submitted an amendment that has no logical connection, according to the Government, with a member of the law to which it has been filed, that's not even a problem. It is clear that the ruling coalition has the right to do so and that it is good to submit hundreds of amendments and meet Serbian citizens how much better the budget or the Budgetary System Act could be. The problem, however, was that he had to bring his exposure to at least a minimal relationship with macroeconomic stability, which is exactly what is in his amendment. The fact that the gentleman is talking about the councilmen is not sitting here, but the MPs are sitting, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that as a reason for improving macroeconomic stability, the fact that in its area, he says, in ten schools made two physical halls, this simply has nothing to do with it. Confirmation that the presentations of SNS have nothing to do with the subject that we are talking about today is that it is simple and, despite its best wishes, it has nothing to say to them. What should Minister Vujovic say at the founding of the ruling coalition MPs that two physical halls were built at his school? What difference does it make? Here, if Minister Vujovic explains to us what this has to do with the subject, we will be grateful. You have a duty to stop those speakers. This isn't a free topic. So the subject is set, the amendments are precise. If they abuse, terminate their right to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28346	Thank you. Coli Sarovic, from one of my experiences, if any of the MPs stick to the agenda, the topic and always talks about it, it is Ambassador Goran Kovacevic. (Nemnja Sarovic: If he's holding on, which is not the case now. ) He simply entered into his discussion of this amendment the context of the micro-level, from macro to micro, so I understood it so. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? Nemanja Sarovic: Of course I do. Yes. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please, colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28347	Article 107. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I totally understand why there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Because the MP isn't concentrated enough when he gets up and explains what he says. He says two schools were built at his school. Every normal MP and citizen of Serbia knows that two schools are not made, but in 10 schools where there was no physical hall. I understand that he cannot monitor macroeconomic stability and cannot connect, but without macroeconomic stability...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28348	Mr. Kovacevic, don't replicate now, tell me how I hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28349	You've hurt the Rules of Procedure because you should have stopped the MP from getting as confused as he doesn't know about macroeconomics and fiscal politics, and he's trying to talk. So you should have protected him from himself, not to embarrass himself in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28350	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Sasa Radulović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28351	Thank you, Chairman. You're violating Article 158. Since this morning, MPs from the ruling majority: Ljubisa Stojmirović, Ljiljana Malušić, Krsto Janjusevic, Blaža Knezevic, Milena Turk, Dragana Barisic, Vladimir Orlic, Aleksandar Markovic, Marijan Risticevic, Jelena Kovacevic, Darko Laketić, Krsto Janjusevic speak of their amendments less than two minutes, some even minutes and 10 seconds. Every time you take two minutes off the amendment, you're practically stealing time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28352	Thank you, colleague Radulovic. (Sasa Radulovic: Don't interrupt me. You're stealing time. I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? The 10th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Miodrag Lint. Take it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28353	I will speak in an amendment on resolving the problems of the refugees and displaced persons and improving the situation of Serbs in the region. Here, one thing would improve Serbia's macroeconomic stability if, for example, The Republic of Croatia paid for 50,000 Krajina pensioners 81 leftover pensions on average per pensioner. That's more than a billion euros. It is well known that in the summer of 1991, the pro-Statrian regime of Franjo Tuđman suspended pension payments for 50,000 Serbs and only after the war, as a pensioner left for Croatia, he restored his pension. I repeat, the average Croatian state owes 81 pensions per pensioner. Unfortunately, in 2003, Dosovska authorities signed a very unfavourable social insurance agreement with the Republic of Croatia, not insisting that Croatia must first resolve its obligations to 50,000 expelled Serbian pensioners, but signed the agreement by leaving the issue entirely aside. Also, there's another unfavourable thing. The agreement did not insist that if the country's pension was transferred from Croatia and received in Serbia, it would not lose the so-called pension. A protective supplement. Pensioners who transfer their pensions from Croatia to BiH do not lose a protective allowance. A large number of Serbian pensioners have minimum pensions in Croatia, and when they transfer their pension here, they drop 30-40 euros. It is one great injustice against 50,000 expelled Serbs. It is tragic that the EU has allowed the Republic of Croatia to close negotiations on Chapter 23 - human rights and justice and become an EU member, and continues to systematically violate the human rights of hundreds of thousands of expelled Serbs and remaining Serbs in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28354	Thank you. Necessa Sarovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28355	Mr Marinkovic, a member of 107 who says that the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect and that is the dignity of the National Assembly and the second attitude that he says – at the session of the National Assembly it is not allowed to directly address the MP to another MP, used offensive expressions, etc. Not to be slow, my announcement was before Mr. Linta spoke and refers to what Mr. Kovacevic was saying while he was abused by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28356	Please, you can't point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure after the speech of My Lady Linta. Please focus on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28357	I'm pointing to that right now. Please, he spoke to me personally, it's the first thing that's not allowed, and the other thing he insulted me by saying that I don't understand...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28358	I can't. I have to have the archain the same for everyone with every desire to let you speak. Wait, colleague Sarovic. (Nemnja Sarovic: He told me that I was unable to connect some things. ) Please, I have excluded you and asked you to continue because we missed that amendment and are now on the amendment Mr. Linta spoke of. There'll be a chance, you'll answer and you'll talk. Sasa Radulovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28359	You hurt Article 103 after you interrupted me last time. You're committing a crime, please stop.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28360	Thank you. Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28361	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 103 of the 1st century, 2, 3rd and 8th. Therefore, MPs are obliged to advertise, have the right to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure immediately after the injury has been done. You have allowed an MP who favors some strange arrangements here to advertise the Rules of Procedure after six, seven stages of the Members of Parliament. He accused us, and you let us steal for a while by talking less than two minutes. If I speak less than two minutes, I do not steal time from him, but I save time on myself and on me and on the citizens of Serbia and on you and on the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You don't want to let this psychotic phenomenon be more experienced over us, and Mr. Rancic is good enough to check, after recording these famous arrangements, where it's missing a patient from a colleague, Rancic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28362	Thank you. The word has Marinika Tepic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28363	I thank the Chairman and will immediately ask you in accordance with a member of the Rules of Procedure which I am advertising, which is paragraph 103, to continue or allow all colleagues who explain the violation of the Rules of Procedure on your part to do so for up to two minutes, as this article requires, where it explicitly states that the MP who is advocating the violation of the Rules of Procedure is obliged to explain what the infringement of the Rules of Procedure consists of for up to two minutes. Since this morning, you have kept interrupting all MPs from the opposition, not entering from which group, as soon as they say a word you fear will be given by the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28364	Thank you. I said an hour ago that I absolutely didn't want to allow a speech like this, absolutely inappropriate for parliament. Therefore, do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? Yeah. ) Radoslav Milojičić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28365	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising Article 108. Please conduct the session as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. Every day, SNS or any of you chairmans allow certain things to be done by the authorities, and these things are not allowed by opposition members and we have nothing against it, but to know that what is happening to you now in Baja's Garden where hundreds of people have fallen into local self-government with transparency and are protesting for their rights. I do not wish for that, I warn that we are MPs chosen by the citizens and that Baji's Garden is just the beginning. Please, that we all have the same rights, because we all have the same rights in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28366	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to come forward in voting day, since I believe I did not violate the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. The word has Bojan Bag.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28367	The President-in-Office, gentlemen of Ministers, this amendment proposes that planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the budget be realised so that it is to the greatest extent possible to be in the role of reducing poverty as the legacy of the former regime. And what other than poverty could have remained in Serbia and its citizens after the most shameful robbery privatisations conducted by the former regime and which destroyed Serbia more than all wars and NATO bombs, when companies were so-called "gifted". sold for one euro, or one mark, but none could be sold without a fat fee charged by officials of the former regime during privatisation. What other than poverty could it bring to Serbia and its citizens the power that destroyed both the republican and local self-government budgets during its rule? That is why it is precisely our task to continue the fight that we started five years ago, to make Serbia a state with as little poverty as possible, a country in which its citizens will have the right to live a worthy man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28368	Thank you, Comrade Torbice. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28369	You've hurt Article 27 -- you're stealing time, you're going to get a criminal report.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28370	Thank you. The word is Radoslav Milojic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28371	I'm advertising Article 107 - dignity. The previous speaker, who did not explain the amendment or spoke about the subject of the agenda, violated his dignity by speaking again – thieves, criminals, gangs, etc. Mr. Marinkovic, for the fifth time from here, we appeal. When Mr. Djurisic said that, you took away his word. Do we need to talk about what a thief Alexander Vulin, who stole 300,000 euros? (Radoslav Milojic): Why did you exclude me and not him? [[Disabled microphone.]] )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28372	Because it makes no sense to insult the minister in that way. You have a chance to ask him, you have a chance to suggest, but I don't want to let anyone talk like that. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Yes) Thank you. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by Parliamentarian Olivera Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28373	Thank you, Chairman. With this amendment, we propose that the government adopt a report on the implementation of the SDGs and that this report be submitted to the National Assembly by 31 March at the latest for the previous year. In this way, we have clearly defined the role of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the 2030 Agenda. One of the objectives of the 2030 Agenda is to foster sustainable development of the city. When the Serbian Progressive Party took responsibility in 2012 in Leskovac, we inherited a debt of two billion. The debt of two billion was about 70% of the budget for that year for the town of Leskovac. Could it have been possible to achieve the sustainable development of the town of Leskovac, if the Democratic Party had paid advancely to performers for streets that had never been paved? Of course, that's why the officials were prosecuted. Could it have been possible to achieve sustainable development of the town of Leskovec if the streets had been paved before the election, and no sewers had been installed before, or a replaced water network that was over 50 years old? Could it be possible to achieve the sustainable development of the town of Leskovac during the Democratic Party's rule if all 24 primary and secondary schools were blocked? Could it be possible to achieve sustainable development of the town of Leskovec if the Leskovec Development Fund, as the only development institution, was three years in the blockade? Could it have been possible to achieve sustainable development of the town of Leskovec if 300 people on the party line were fired, and then returned to their jobs after two years in court? In this way, the city's budget of Leskovec was damaged by 80 million dinars. Imagine how many streets could have been paved in that period, or how many schools could have been renovated? Could it have been possible to achieve during the Democratic Party sustainable development of the town of Leskovac, if the Democratic Party had shut down the Youth talent Fund, which has scholarshipd students with an average of 9.5, in such a way as to distract them from returning to their hometown after their studies ended? Is it possible to think about the sustainable development of the town of Leskovec if millions were thrown onto a well, to find hot water, if millions were thrown into the construction of a solar power plant, which was exactly on the private property of relatives, members and senior officials of the Democratic Party? Kolika Democrats thought of the sustainable development of the town of Leskovac, the citizens showed in previous elections, when they gave close to 70% of the support to the Serbian Progressive Party in Leskovac. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28374	Thank you. (Radoslav Milojic: Replica, according to this amendment. On what basis? By amendment? You don't have time. You can't rephrase. You're not an authorised representative, nor a head of the Parliament Club, nor a deputy. If there was Mr. Ciric or Balša Bozovic, there could be a replica, so I don't have the basis to give you my word. I'm sorry. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28375	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and my amendment again refers to the efficiency of financial institutions and is tied to the good work of the Ministry of Finance and exactly to the Treasury. Why do I want to say that? Because while I was in the Working Group on Writing Laws on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the National Bank of Serbia and the Working Group on Writing Laws on Public Procurement participated in June and July 2012, until the Government of the Republic of Serbia was formed, you know, it's not so easy to write, as an MP, some law, so the work often knew that it took a long time, I was surprised every time I saw, about 22-23 hours, that in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the ministries still held by the former regime, the lights were on. I thought, "worthy of some people." But what surprised me even more was that both in May and June, in the government of the Republic of Serbia, there were boiler rooms. Probably because of energy efficiency, they had to work to save the heating costs. But all I care about is what's burned down in those boiler rooms? I think a lot of what was burned were later discovered as some new debts, which no one could explain how they were created. So we had debts for unpaid subsidies in agriculture, then for outstanding pensions, and under what kind of contracts certain arrangements were made with the Fund for the Development of Serbia, and then the State Auditor discovered that 120 billion dinars were non-performing claims to the Fund for Serbia's development, and imagine, that was then a three-billion euro for them. Well, if we could get that money back and if they were really invested in the development of the economy, would we have a drop in gross income on the territory of the Republic of Serbia? With that billion euros, how much could that pension be worth? How much pay in the public sector could that be paid? How many miles of roads could that have been reconstructed? How many miles of highways to build? But they burned all these calculations, and it seems to me that they burned them to be able to speak here, so process some of them, who did it. However, the boiler room has made sure nothing is available to state authorities and that they can, at least so hope, walk freely in Serbia, although they have done her harm.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28376	Thank you, colleague Arsic. The word has been made by the MP Radoslav Milojic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28377	Mr. Marinkovic, I am advertising both a member of 107 and a member of 108, and I am advertising the injury that has now been done and made by the previous speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28378	I can only hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28379	Of course, because you did not warn the previous speaker and the previous speaker, especially because they were false. If you don't trust the courts of the Republic of Serbia, we do. The directors and vice directors of the Leskovec Construction Directorate were released yesterday... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28380	A fellow Milojitsu... (Radoslav Milojic: The truth is that 4,000 jobs have been opened in Leskovec, and you have opened nothing but a tap in the cemetery and you are talking about something? )......................................................................................................... Let's continue this session as we should. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28381	You know, Mr. Marinkovic, I listened to you this morning, since I'm getting up early, not to say five o'clock, but you were so about who knows which time on one television, it's irrelevant, and you were talking about macroeconomic stability and so on. Since you are aware of these legal proposals, such as this law, I am convinced, and because of your profession and your knowledge, you should have pointed out to the previous speaker, which was Veroljub Arsic, and there is your injury, that, in accordance with Article 161 and Article 162, you should have reacted to the Minister, as an equal participant in this session, in accordance with Article 116, that something like this could not have been found as a proposal to amend the members of the law. Ms. Bulajić, Mr. Smiljanic, also knows that because they are excellent lawyers, because this is not the legal and legal norm that the predecessor spoke of, it is a list of wishes, as well as all amendments submitted by colleagues from the SNS. So this is not a legal solution and this has had to be rejected as an amendment that is not in line with Articles 161 and 162, because a list of good wishes cannot be the content of a legislative proposal, only in an explanation, and in the explanation we hear all sorts of things, and when Serbia enters the EU, it will never, ever, if we ask ourselves, and it will not be safe, because too much will fall apart than you join the EU, and it cannot, as the proposal says, that the objective of the amendment is to further encourage the efficiency of financial institutions' efficiency. That's not true at all. You were obliged to interrupt Veroljub Arsic and tell him nicely that the amendment does not comply with this Rules of Procedure when they have not already done so and it is not an amendment at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28382	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28383	Listen, thanks. Have you read this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28384	I did, but it's time to point out a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28385	The chairman, article 27, says you chair and carry out other tasks in accordance with the law and this Rules of Procedure. What is evident and what cameras cannot record is that you are constantly being sufflied by the advanced Aleksandar Martinovic how to treat the MPs of the opposition. Two hours you tolerate being called criminals on this left hand side and various other names of the previous regime. Is that true, did they go into corruption? They did. Have these people been processed? No, they're not. Did the SNS take those criminals DS? Yes, Goran Vesic. Where is he now? Well, he's the biggest criminal who's been charged... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28386	My colleague Damjanovic, I apologize, is not a subject and indeed no one mentioned Goran Vesic and I did not allow anyone in the hall to be called a criminal. I was just doing the opposite. And that I'm communicating with Mr. Martinovic, so I guess that's normal. With the head of the largest parliamentary group, of course, I'm communicating and I'm going to continue. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28387	Mr Marinkovic, I point to a violation of Article 103(2). - "The MP cannot point to an injury in the conduct of the president of the National Assembly which has already been indicated." Please, Mr. Marinkovic, don't let five or six MPs so-called. The opposition constantly points to the same members of the Rules of Procedure who are allegedly injured, and thus trying to buy additional time for discussion in particulars, and not because of the time not because of the SNS, but because they had a debacle in the elections, because time is not won by the Rules of Procedure and is not won in the National Assembly but won in parliamentary elections. Please, Mr Marinkovic, that this session is conducted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that you do not allow MPs to appear by the same members of the Rules of Procedure, because it is simply not allowed. So, I most kindly ask you to respect this provision of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28388	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28389	My colleague Marinkovic, here a little bit of a lengthy violation is both of the 27th and 2nd and of the 107th because you are somehow not concentrated, you are not listening very well to what the MPs here today say. No one can say what we just heard, because we are here by the will of the citizens. We've just come here on election results and we're here to defend the will of the citizens. And, yes, there are voices coming out of here and we're talking to the citizens from here. You don't win votes by breaking people's windows in municipalities where elections are now held, where people are threatened, wherever they are...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28390	My colleague Radeta, I don't want a campaign to be run from here, when it comes to suggestion on the injury of the Rules of Procedure, at the local level. You run the campaign now and you abuse the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28391	I just said you're violating these Rules of Procedure because you're not focused. You haven't noticed that in three days, and now in one of my sentences, you notice that? That's why I'm distracting you. Take a break until someone comes along, because you won't let me run the session, and I would do the best of all of you and together to line up, be safe, and I would respect parliamentary democracy and the Rules of Procedure as it is and I would respect the opposition in the National Assembly, which I want to do to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28392	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go. (Alexandra Jerkov: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) (Marinika Tepic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28393	Thank you, Chairman. The amendment I have made is certainly a function of strengthening the fight against crime and corruption. Dear Chairman, we can call people of power, that is, those who exercised power until 2016 in Vojvodina, and by 2012 in the rest of Serbia to call whatever they want. I agree, we'll stop calling them the yellow cartel. We can also call them the yellow board director, and we can call them the yellow academy. We can even do it to the opposition if it works with their ears. However, the consequences of their past activities are essential and should be highlighted. They are certainly painful for all of Serbia and are very easy to measure. You know very well about the privatisation that was conducted during the time they exercised power in Serbia. One of these examples of how this privatisation and its operation can be painful is the Saturday electric motor factory "North". You know very well how much this factory was respected at the premises of the former Yugoslavia, but if you're going abroad, she's hired 2,000 workers and she's had valuable assets abroad, she's had developed production programs, but, my God, that privatisation that this yellow academy conducted, today's opposition, whatever you want, these people have mostly ended up on the street. The contract envisioned a clause requiring the buyer to invest 16m euros in the factory, with the agreement of the then authorities. This has never happened, and these 2,000 people have become people who ended up on the street and have become a burden on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because many of them have become persons in a state of social need, thus falling on the burden of the budget, that is, all the citizens of this country. These consequences must be corrected. Today you have the opportunity to employ a little more than 6,000 people in the economic zone in Subotica, first of all, the efforts of the president of the state, the prime minister, as well as the mayor of Subotica. Every day at least a few people are more in the economic zone in Subotica. It certainly benefits the Republic of Serbia's budget, but also the local budget. Now, that's the right way and it's the right answer to everything that's happened in the past, and it's the right way to take care of the budgets that go back through the investments, we see, go back to the city of Subotica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28394	Thank you. The word of the messenger of the people is Alexander Jerkov, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28395	Thank you, Vice President. I called to draw your attention to article 32. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and the fact that you are in violation of Article 103, so don't give us a word right after we've heard from you, and then you say that we didn't get a word right after the announcement, means that you're just violating another member of the 103, not that you can later honor us for not reporting directly after the injury you've done. I picked up the phone right after the injury was done. You didn't give me the word right after the injury, which is your fault, not mine. Mr. Martinovic is obviously having trouble interpreting the read text. In Article 103, which he advertised, it doesn't say anything that he can't point to an injury to the same member of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28396	My colleague Jerkov, you can't...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28397	... but it says it can't appear on the injury... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28398	Not everyone can say what they want in parliament. (The People's MPs of the Democratic Party resent. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. (Radoslav Milojic): Then what do you tell us?- I'm sorry. I will not give any insult and violation of any procedures and Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28399	Thank you, Chairman. The state of Serbia is one big construction site. In the state, Serbia is investing wisely and responsibly in all areas of social life, and this is all evidence of Serbia's fiscal stability. I come from Capca, where the state of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28400	I'm sorry, buddy. I beg for peace. Of course I won't let him talk about who comes to mind and insults and throws away and obstruct Parliament's session. It really doesn't make sense. But I will be persistent in that intention. Thank you. Here you go, my fellow Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28401	Please, just give me back the time. So I come from Capca, where the state of Serbia has made a big investment. The "Jasaki" factory with over 1,700 jobs. The state of Serbia is investing in education in Šapco. The Sabak High School this year, when it celebrates 180 years of existence, over 30 million are invested in renovating schools, sports halls, which opened a few days ago. We also have a reconstruction of the school "Doctor Andrej Jovanovic", with 43 million dinars. We have a coastal fort on the Drina River near Prnjavor worth 55 million dinars. The state of Serbia invests in the wastewater factory for 2018, 90 million dinars, and 60 million dinars in 2019. While the state is making the most of investment in the Sabac, in fact, which is really needed by the Whisper, the master of life in Šapco Dusan Petrovic has held the citizens of Šapca in the ghetto for 17 years. For the past 17 years, he has not brought any quality investment to Sabac. His listener, Šapca Mayor Nebojsa Zelenovic, found in the DRI in 2015, accidentally spent more than 4m euros in money from the citizens of Sapca. In 2016, they admitted in court that they were buying votes in the elections. So the court ruling acknowledged that in 2016 they bought votes in the elections. Regular inspection supervision has been carried out in the city administration, where it has been found, among other things, that the opposite of the law, without the consent of the commission, the government, 10 persons have established a working relationship. And, now, a few days ago, Dusan Petrovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic tasked the town of Sabac with about one billion dinars. In the end, I would only ask, 10 days ago, this rooster across the street said there would be some kind of riot in Serbia and that it would be led by the DS. I'm asking the state authorities to examine these allegations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28402	The word is made by MP Miljan Damjanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28403	I call again, Chairman, on Article 27. You've been saying all along that you're not going to allow it, and Mr. People's MP, who seems to have written this text, and he didn't know how to read it, I hope not, because he said -- some rooster, some rooster. Looks like we've gone from monkey to rooster. Is this the parliamentary democracy that you represent here in the Assembly? What else do they have to say to take away their word or punish them for a change? For these things, people here were excluded from the session within 30 seconds. What are you going to do now, Mr. Chairman? Will you say now, "Do I wish to be clear?" This is obvious. Get a stenogram. If this isn't a flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure and this isn't a punishment, I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28404	Thank you. I'll look for, like you said, a stenogram. I didn't hear that word. But given what's been said since this morning, and if that's said... (Miljan Damjanovic: Well, what we've been hearing from Martinovic for a year and a half, this is really... ( ) Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? (Miljan Damjanovic: Yes, of course. ) The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28405	Thank you. Dear Ministers, I have submitted an amendment to Article 10. The law on the budget system, which concerns support for further investment and development of all districts in the Republic of Serbia. I would like to refer to the plan of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, when it comes to the Rasinski district and the municipality of Trstenik. This plan refers to a return to the function of a machine-technical complex, not only for the main, but also for the profiles of modern technology models. The school centre of the technical school is planned to model successful centres in Serbia. There is an active investment in the student standard and student standard, which is realised through the investment of a student home in the municipality of Trstenik. Given the production that has been represented in the municipality of Trstenik, in the factory of the dedicated "Petoletka", and the investment that we had in the past, when it comes to the dedicated industry, the purchase of nine new machines, but also the donation of the Republic of Serbia of 3.5m euros and plans relating to the conclusion of new jobs, the expansion of production and employment of new young people, it is clear why such a plan and such a machine centre are very important. In the section of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development in the budget, it is seen that the plan provides for additional investment and an increase in funding relating to investment in student and student standards and this amendment is precisely to support this investment, which relates to the even development of all districts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28406	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Radoslav Milojic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28407	Mr. Chairman, I really don't understand. Come on, get the stenogram, what the previous speakers were saying. Who stole from Capcu, 1.1 billion? [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28408	Hey, buddy, I just said, I'm not gonna let you obstruct the work of the Assembly. (Radoslav Milojic): How can someone sue like that? Well, did you hear that? ) It was a discussion of my colleague, Knezevic, before the discussion of my colleague Milena Turk. (Radoslav Milojic: Why didn't you interrupt him? No, my colleague just said that. Get a stenogram. We'll move on. I'm always in favor of dialogue, when you do something according to procedure, go ahead. I don't want to get all worked up with you, tossing it to me. National MP Dr Dragana Barisic submitted to the 10th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28409	Thank you. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, I have submitted this amendment because certainly, in order to recover our Serbia from those who have destroyed it for 12 years, it takes a lot, and this government is trying. But I can't understand those who have been in politics for a long time, I'm not as much as they do, that they don't realize that citizens are looking for, first of all, the program, looking for vision and plan, not empty stories. So one self-proclaimed leader from my neighborhood, I'm from Kruševec, he's from Triestenik, through some independent newspapers very often knows how to boast and talk, and we all know that he destroyed the Triestenik municipality. Now I'd like to ask him, since he's been a MP for two years – what has he done now to contribute to the development of the Triestenik municipality or is he just trying to muddle his birthplace? What kind of man doesn't even vote for his family because he won two votes in his native Milatovac, both of them. In doing so, he criticises the Ministry of Agriculture and takes the tractor...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28410	Go back to the amendment, my colleague, about the health system.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28411	Of course, according to the amendment, and in order to strengthen that system that they've been destroying for 12 years. But I hope that the tractor has a valid license, and since the degree in academic studies has not yet been brought and shown, I invite him to bring his and I'll get mine, so let's see if he is who he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28412	Thank you. (Miroslav Aleksic: Replica. ) Mr Miroslav Aleksic answered. I really didn't recognize it was you or anyone in this room. You're not mentioned by name and last name. (Miroslav Aleksic: How could I not? No, I can't, I don't really have a basis to give you. I didn't recognize you, you're Mr. Miroslav Aleksic to me. (Miroslav Aleksic: She mentioned me. No, no, it's not a name. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28413	The development of the state, ladies and gentlemen, of course, can only come as a result of serious and responsible treatment. As a result of serious and responsible treatment, I quote, the head of the International Monetary Fund mission in the Republic of Serbia, Mr Ruff, can come up with a responsible pension increase and a significant salary increase, which is also important news for the citizens of this country and which is certainly the topic of this session. Who's gonna get all the raises and how much? Pensioners - 5%, employees of the MUP, defences, BIA, Tax Administration, Customs Administration, Penitentiary Offices - 10%, civil servants and deputies in courts and prosecutors - 10% and 5% respectively, judges, prosecutors, deputies - 5%, employees of primary and secondary education institutions, student standards - 10%, in government services and other public administration bodies, including administrative districts - 5%, civil servants, deputies - 5%, employees of higher education institutions, researchers and auxiliary staff in research work – 5%, employees in other public services that I did not mention – 5%, beneficiaries of the budgets of local authorities – 5%. These are important things and this is good news for the citizens of Serbia. It's really sad that some MPs, wherever they sit, whoever they belong to politically, don't mind knowing this. It's important that Serbia knows this. It is sad that they are bothered and worried about it, not only because of the dignity of the congregation, but also because of them. They say that anxiety is causing further nerve problems, and they say that a lot of anxiety is what makes the hair get stiff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28414	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28415	Thank you, Chairman. Article 10. The bill, again the same amendment, the addition of a new stance – planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget is realised to the greatest extent possible to be in the function of modernisation. We said why modernization is important. It is expected to increase the efficiency and functionality of local self-government, and that is very important that we no longer get into the situation of having the abuses we had in Smederjevska Palanca, as we had in Tristenik, as we had in Vrakar and in all other municipalities. (Radoslav Milojic: Replica. One more thing, Chairman, just before one MP... (Radoslav Milojic: You lost the election. )......................................................................................................... Here he was talking about some protest in Baja's garden, trying to blame the SNS, forgetting to say it was right in that Baja Garden... (Radoslav Milojic: I haven't forgotten.) )......................................................................................................... The protest, organised by the DS, has led to a problem that 80% of the citizens of the village, belonging to Baja Basta, have no sewers. (Radoslav Milojic: You have been in power there for six years. You know, the village of the plan is at stake. For years, they had no sewerage, and then the yellow experts decided to build a project, the project was primarily worth nine million, but after the work, when the work was finished, it turned out it cost twice as much, and at the end of the project, 80% of the houses couldn't join the sewer. That's how the yellow pests worked, and he's got to make noises out of there today all morning and noises and insults here. (Radoslav Milojic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28416	You have no right to a replica. You didn't mention it. Mr. Goran Ciric or Mr. Balša Bozovic is right. (Radoslav Milojic: Did you hear? Yeah, I heard. (Radoslav Milojic): He told me about Baja's Garden, about Smederjevska Palanka. ) The MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and the MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted to the 11th amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28417	We are asking this amendment to delete Article 11, as a new Article 75a is added to this article, and that is the Commission for the implementation of international accounting standards for the public sector. We object to forming, not forming working groups, if the commission is a task force that needs to be advised to help with some things in the ministry, then it doesn't deserve to be in law. If you're putting it into law, is it within the rank of the Republic Commission for the Protection of the Rights of Providers in Public Procurement Procedures? Article 75a and Article 75a intertwine. At first glance it seems to regulate different things, but it's all the same. I just need to draw your attention that the DRI should be involved in this business, no matter what the audit is, let me say, the second half, but by forming a working group... Watch out, the task force that needs to help the minister form a government. I don't know who gave you the idea to put this into this. However, I simply cannot understand the government's representative, why are you so man of the heart of stone? Here, ten times we listen to 25 of the same amendments and you don't accept any amendments, and they vote for you. Let's not accept my amendments, I can understand that, but how now? These are amendments that need to prove how much better this government is than that government half a year ago and now we're listening here... I'll vote for all these amendments, but I'm afraid they won't pull back. What if they withdraw the amendments, then how do we vote? They just don't have to convince me, I accept all the amendments. Why? Because they are serious, responsible, thoroughly prepared and talk about what the prime minister needs to continue not to make mistakes as the previous prime minister. That's the purpose of these amendments. Mr. Marinkovic, when someone on this side says someone's abuse of the Rules of Procedure, amends to waste time, immediately give him a warning. Amendments can't stand to waste time. The amendments are submitted to improve the bill. Look, they support the government, every amendment to improve it, all of it needs to be installed in a member, so they can interpret it any way they want to. Respect the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28418	Thank you, dear colleague Krasic. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28419	Thank you, Vice President. I've been missing the concept of this session for three days now, and as far as I'm concerned, I don't need to say what I think, I don't know, I need to say what you think or anyone else. I see in all these arguments MPs are trying to show what's important to them, what should be entered into this Budgetary System Act. My amendments aren't that guy. If I were to talk about what's important to me to get into the budget system, into the Budgetary System Act, we could now talk here about the return of kidnapped pensions, about the impudence of the ruling coalition, all the insanity of the statement that the pension cuts come down to the fact that those pensioners who were planning to fly to Marseilles are now going to have to settle for flying to Palma De Majorka. So I'm just asking my colleagues to tell me -- which pensioners know how to fly in the Seaskills, to Palm De Majorka, or anywhere else, that they're able to go to sea and afford such a luxury? We can talk about Mr Vujovic's statement that he said people are guaranteed pension, but not the amount of pension, so Mr Vujovic is guaranteed that you can have an account, but you are not guaranteed the amount in your account. So at one point when the government estimates that the amount in your account is too large, because someone else has little income or no bread to eat, then takes the money from that account of yours because they estimate that you have too much, because that's what you've been doing with the pensioners in this country and you had no right to do it and I'm sorry that your colleagues don't talk about it, and here we can talk about whatever we want.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28420	Thank you, colleague. You know very well that I didn't think so, and that I thought that they hurt Parliament's dignity and insults when it comes to mutual MPs. Far from talking... Dr Dusan Vujovic, the minister has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28421	I thank you for asking this member's question, which is being complemented by the Budgetary System Act. So it's a 75th supplement that, and there's another member later that refers to the introduction of accounting international standards into the public sector, and the debt relates to the transition, the actual transition to programming. These are serious tasks, professional tasks, and we propose not to be unrealistic. We suggest that professional commissions be formed where we invite the most visible people of ours and if we need sides to help us set these standards, to help us move on to so-called. accounting accounting in the budget, that a bunch of your remarks made during this cycle and previous years are properly treated. So, in this accounting system there will be active and passive time-limits, there will be a full balance sheet, there will be a balance of success of the government under quote. So, because it's not called that, it's just that it's a sign of a quote, because it's anything more puzzling at it. This is what we advocate to be open to it. That the commission is established by law so that we can finance this commission in the right way and then it turns out that she has to file reports on her work so that you know who to charge for something. I'm about to make it clear who's gonna get on that committee. If we should be very happy to bring to the attention of the Commission's proposal, which should have the most famous names, professional from Serbia, from abroad, to move on to these standards in general and then freely share the right to use it. But first we have to do it honestly. In order not to spread the discussion, I will also propose when moving to the programming budgeting that requires an improvement in the methodology that cannot be implemented within the working time of a limited number of people in the Ministry of Finance. Instead of improvising them, I suggest we do it properly, professionally. As for the other comments, I've answered for them before, so I'm not going to look back on that right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28422	Thank Minister Vujovic. The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28423	I have come to say hello to this announcement of the extraordinary parliamentary elections that the finance minister has just announced, because it is quite certain that within a year when we are discussing, or the Assembly may be discussing the 2019 budget, Minister Vujovic will not be able to sit there, because then he would have to explain all of this now that he has announced that it will not happen, because it will certainly not happen, because I do not know what experts you will find by this ruling junta to do to you... . [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28424	I've already asked you. You obviously do it on purpose. You want to cause some incident here in the Assembly. You know what junta means, and I don't want to let anyone call anyone that, or the representatives of the majority in parliament, or anyone in the opposition. It really doesn't make sense. Please continue in some democratic tone session, as we like it. Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted to the same text by the MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic, and MP Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? Marijan Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28425	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's about the commission, it's about accounting standards. I can't be easily confused. I think that commission should make sure the money gets to the pensioner. Our pensioners deserve to come to retirement and dignity by work, not by loans. Our pensioners didn't deserve to have a smaller hole bathed in a bigger hole. We need to create additional value, and this commission needs to take care of it because we could easily feed the poor, but we cannot feed these naughty and rich, whose sponsors are Miskovic and the team, and for this reason I think that production should be raised, the commission to take care of the redistribution. The redistribution should be done in favour of the poor. Poverty needs to be contained. They didn't do it either. They fought the poor instead of poverty, and I think the commission should especially take account of our oldest citizens who, I repeat, have earned generational solidarity, but did not deserve to be paid out of what, out of credit, but out of production. We are obliged to allow their pensions to be earned in a fair, fair manner and that they have the right to a dignified age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28426	Thank you, colleague Rističević. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. I'm sorry, according to Businessman Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28427	Dear Mr. Marinkovic, I'm advertising Article 108. Rules of Procedure and Rule 27, because you are obliged to respect this Rules of Procedure and to worry about order at the sitting and understand your wish and intent to speak at least here in this House about the budget, to speak about the state of the Republic of Serbia, economic breakdown, collapse, poverty, but to have at least a shred of dignity when you can show MP Đurišić half the exposure to the amendment on which you have the right to turn off the microphone because of the use of words – the ruling junta, and you do not do the same when MPs of the ruling majority already on the third day of the choir in the worst possible light want to show people sitting on this side of the hall, saying the most disgusting lies, insults, vomits and you let them go through the injury of the Rules, that through the replica, that through the alleged story of amendments, they all say. It's your responsibility and I know you're doing it consciously and it's part of your tactics, but at least you're doing it with a little dignity and a little bit more polite.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28428	Thank you, colleague Alexic. I believe that I did not harm the Rules of Procedure and that Mr Risticevic and his exposure were absolutely within the framework of what he proposed as an amendment, very constructive, very correct. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. ) The word has Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28429	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, I wanted to achieve two goals. First, that the text should be improved by legal technicality, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to support the government's activity in the formation of bodies for the application of international accounting standards for the public sector. Dear Vice President, we have been challenged here for two days the right to submit amendments and improve the text of the law. That's not the problem. The problem is if long-standing MPs and lawyers do so. Then they really have a problem with the right or pretend they don't know the right or it's about each other. As well as graphics as political messages to citizens, it is no wonder that since 25 December from Erdewika I have been carrying a message from citizens who read – Marian goes from the mountain, running yellow as aunts. Thanks, 'cause they're not in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28430	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. (Gordana Comić: Who isn't in the O.R.? ) I hear some screams here. I ask, who isn't in the O.R.? Please don't throw each other away. I ask, who isn't in the O.R.? Vice President, can you see me? Thank you. (Gordana Comić: Shame on the liar.) ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Do you want a word? Here you go. Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28431	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I would like to ask SNS MPs not to fall for provocations and insults. I ask you, don't throw away your colleagues from the opposition, let them show them how rude they are, how they don't have any ideas, and how the only subject they've been talking about for two days now is your right to be given to you by the Rules of Procedure, which they have brought to bear amendments to the draft laws. So, please, as president of the parliamentary group, as your colleague, remain calm, remain dignified and let everyone here do their job. Take care of the fact that you represent 56% of Serbian citizens, that the people have shown you trust to lead the country in difficult times, together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, along with the President of the Republic of Serbia, and that it is easy for them. They're not responsible for anything. They're not even able to sit in the O.R. They come and go, they come and go, and then two days and the whole story comes down to them, and why did you of the SNS submit amendments? Because that's what the Rules of Procedure lets us do. Let me just say one sentence. So, the practice of destroying Serbia's military's perspective weapons has been halted by political changes in 2012. I would like to commend the defence ministers from that period and Mr. Bratislava Gasic, and Mr. Djordjevic, and Mr. Vulin. An analysis has been made and a new plan for the development and modernisation of the Serbian Army has been adopted. The first results were in 2014. Three new fighting funds and systems have been adopted in Serbia's Army in 2015, five systems, 2016, seven, and the plan is to adopt 28 new battle systems in Serbia's Army from 2017 to 2019.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28432	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. The word has been made by MP Nemanja Sarovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28433	Mr Marinkovic, a member of 106 has been injured and Article 107 has been injured. A member of the 106th says - the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted, and Aleksandar Martinovic spoke to his MP group, apparently thought this was, not a session of the National Assembly, but a session of the parliamentary group, which he did not. Not a single word in the first minute and 45 seconds spoke of the amendment. When he finished that address that had absolutely nothing to do with the topic of the agenda, then he said, well now let me just say one sentence, which, conditionally speaking, may be related logically to the amendment. You were obliged to interrupt him. It's obviously a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The second thing, article 107 says, is that the speaker at the session is obliged to respect dignity in the National Assembly. Aleksandar Martinovic, speaking to his MPs, said all MPs of the opposition were unquestioned. I ask you, Mr Marinkovic, in accordance with your understanding of parliamentary democracy in accordance with your home education - is that allowed for a term or is that offensive? If it's offensive, then you were obliged to warn him, to interrupt him, to take away his word, give him a warning, etc. If you say it is not offensive then we too will consider it to be an expression that we can use in the future and thus act for any insult that comes from the ruling coalition's MPs to the opposition. Just determine whether or not it's allowed?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28434	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. I listened carefully to Alexander Martinovic's exposure, and of course he didn't, nor did he say so. So he hasn't qualified all members of the opposition party. And I am grateful to him for calling on SNS MPs to remain dignified and peaceful, since we have been trying to obstruct all morning. We listen to various insults and it is tolerated, precisely in that sense, that we want to make the highest level of democratic debate here, not wanting to warn anyone, and of course, I would like everyone to discuss, as you discuss in a cultural and dignified way. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. Thank you. The word has been given by MP Djordje Vukadinovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28435	Thank you. I will speak according to the amendment, about the same as the applicant for the amendment, Mr. Martinovic. As far as the military is concerned, I support that the military stands out as much and as high as possible, but I would remind you that in the previous years, just for the mandate of this government or this furniture was not the case. Now we have a significant increase, but earlier years are not, even reduced amounts. It can be witnessed by a minister who's here or at least an ex. That wasn't the case. I'm glad that practice is changing, but it's also very important what these funds are invested in. If I were to talk about the amendment longer than my colleague Martinovic said, I would have to answer his direct question and the call we heard yesterday at the expense of the opposition's representatives sitting here. They know colleagues from the government and the opposition that I am one of the more regular here and who sit up and up most often and in the polls, when others are gone. This time, today, these days, unfortunately, I have to admit that I resent myself, but I also resent the opposition colleagues, which we sit so much, because we are indeed attending a kind of parliamentary obstruction by the ruling coalition, abuse of the right to submit amendments. In that sense, and I end up, although I have time as an authorised representative, I would draw attention to the fact that no case has been remembered that the ruling coalition has submitted so many amendments and that this represents as the most normal thing. Look at all the previous sessions, when the budget was adopted, different governments in the Serbian Parliament. Of course, in the world too. It's not usually dear colleagues, and you know it. It is a kind of farce to prevent fellow opposition officers from speaking about amendments. So, when 600 minutes are up, the valve will fall and most of the amendments will not be discussed. We had a case like that when they were educational laws. That's when half of the education laws didn't have time to talk about the amendments at all, because the time was up. This time it's even more drastic. I resent the opposition colleagues for not having the strength and solidarity to agree and indeed collectively react to this kind of obstruction by the congregation majority, but individually, someone doesn't come out, someone like that talks about the Rules of Procedure, someone detests something. In that sense, I see our weakness, and not that there is not enough of us, there is too much of us in view of how the Assembly is organized, that is, organized and guided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28436	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28437	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will say once more, if necessary, we will give them tissues, and let them cry together with Oliver Jovicevic, Jugoslav Cosic, Tanja Vojtehovski and all others, who have realized that a miracle has happened unseen, the end of the world, the coup, the military junta has come to power in Serbia, and SNS MPs have dared to submit amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that they have brought. As for the secession for members of the Serbian Army, what Mr. Vukadinovic said, it is not true, he was not in the O.R. yesterday when I read the exact data on how much the state of Serbia spends money on the salaries of Serbian military employees. So, this growth goes on like this, in 2015, 23 billion 145 million dinars were allocated, in 2017, 24 billion 46 million dinars, and for 2018, it was planned to be allocated to members of the Ministry of Defence, which means to the most extent for members of the Serbian Army 25 billion 827 million dinars. As for these new combat systems that have been introduced into Serbia's Army, I will in this time that I have only to say what it is. These are, among other things, the Morava missile system, the modernized Kub-M PVO system, the Unmanned Vrabac aircraft, the Nora haubica, the Lazar armored vehicle, the Miloš armored rocket launcher 128 millimetres "Oganjan" M-77, the modernized BVP, the modernized tank M-84, the remote controlled groundless platform "Mili Miloš", the modular rifle of 7.62 millimetres, the M-07 sniper rifle, the modernized aircraft "Orao" and G-4, the modernized helicopter "Gazal", the armed and more optical and opt-electric gun and surveillance systems, telecommunications command systems, different types of non-water and guided ammunition, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28438	Thank you. By amendment, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28439	I'm mentioned, of course we have the right to a replica, but I didn't expect to get one. Mr. Martinovic, I listened to your exposure and last time...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28440	You didn't get a replica, you used time by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28441	... I'd be surprised if I'd won the line, even though I was mentioned. It doesn't matter. So, my colleague Martinovic, I followed your numbers, you were talking about pay-outs for employees, I was saying, look at the figures and percentages that talk about the percentages of the budget for the military, it's not the same. Of course, you know it's not the same, but those figures have been dropping the first years of this government, all by now. So, the percentage that stands out for the military, and the other thing is the percentage for wages, I don't dispute your data. What's interesting is that this is your wish that, I didn't understand this illusion with tears, tissues, etc., I really didn't understand that illusion who cried, who didn't cry, I'm just saying, and not knowing if anyone else said it from their colleagues, I see in the Assembly everyone agreeing about it, and MPs who disagreed about nothing, and left and right around me sitting around me, that this is rather unique, not to say, an unremembered case, this kind of parliamentary obstruction by most. I say, in the history of the world, it has been recorded that the minority, the congregation minority, once tried, once successfully, once unsuccessfully, sometimes inappropriately, sometimes inappropriately, and we looked at it in Serbia over the past decades. But that the ruling majority abuses the Rules of Procedure in this way, and don't tell me that everyone has the right to submit the amendment, of course everyone has the right to submit the amendment. Is it really thought that everyone has the right to submit an amendment adding a decimal or a sign of a quote and that in those two minutes, all the worst is said at the expense of the opposition's representatives? You've scandalned yourself here over the words of several of my opposition colleagues, who used some expression, a little sharper, on account of you. Look, colleagues, stenograms. Besides, you don't need stenograms, you know what you said and read it on the account either on this side or on behalf of the leaders of the real or defeated opposition leaders in Serbia. You've been doing nothing else for three days, but criticising the heads of opposition parties, or, particularly interesting, by calling possible, be careful, at this time, only possible potential candidate, Dragan Gilas, as mayor of Belgrade. Ten out of 15 speeches, exhibitions, mentioning Gilas and problems of what the Belgrade authorities have been doing, which is obviously you too are afraid or have some information that we don't have. So it's really unusual, someone on the sidelines when he came, he'd think he came to the town hall session, not to the session of the Republic of Parliament, and it's like we're adopting the city budget, the budget of the city of Belgrade, not the budget of the state of Serbia. Say what you have at the expense of Gilas at City Hall, say at the press conferences. None of us on this side mentioned him, and you 15 times, 20 times, three days don't take him out of your mouth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28442	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28443	I understand, Mr. Vukadinovic, that you are having a hard time running a dead race over who is the leader of the opposition in Serbia. Is that Jelena Machic? Is that Tanya Voighthowski? Is that, as she was, some of these heroes from Twitter, who advertise every day? But you discuss it between yourselves, I don't get into it. Whoever wins that race, we'll admit him to being the leader of the opposition, whatever his name is. What you, Mr Vukadinovic, do not seem to understand, the procurement of all these combat funds would not be possible for the Serbian government since 2012, and especially since the end of 2013 and early 2014, has not begun to lead a different economic policy and we have not received more money in the Republic of Serbia's budget, which has also enabled us to raise the salaries of members of Serbia's Army, but not only Serbia's armies, but also the MUP and BIA, as savings in the budget have enabled us to obtain all this combat equipment. Don't just tell me that this equipment has arrived in the Army of Serbia thanks to your tweets on Twitter. Is this what Tanya Voighthowski bought? Is this what the Wolf Jeremy bought? Is this what Sasha Jankovic bought? Who bought this? This was purchased by the Serbian government, led by Aleksandar Vucic and led by Mrs Ana Brnabic today. I'm sure it wasn't you who bought it. How did you do? We talked about it for two days. How much you destroyed the missile systems, the firearms, the tanks, the hoodies, it was all in the period until 2012. These negative trends in the destruction of Serbia's Army, we stopped in 2012 and now we are proud to say that we have the best army in the region, not to attack anyone, but to safeguard the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and not to allow any new "Blash" or any new "Storm" to happen at any time over Serbs, anywhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28444	Thank you. By amendment, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28445	So it is true that the ruling coalition has the right to submit amendments and it is good that it endures them. We have indeed come to understand from the reasons and from the amendment itself, and we accept that today when Alexander Vulin runs the Ministry of Defence, the situation is much better than when Mr Djordjevic did, and rather better, and this clearly says the specific data that Martinovic provided, incomparably better than when the defence minister was Aleksandar Vucic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28446	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28447	So, in 2012, we didn't actually have an army of Serbia. In 2012, the defence minister was Aleksandar Vukic, after which the defence minister became Bratislava Gasic, which Mr. Sarovic dropped to say, and then he was Mr. Zoran Djordjevic, before Bratislava Gasic was Nebojsa Rodic and now Aleksandar Vulin. For these five years, so in just five years, we've been out of an almost non-existent army, so we haven't had, not combat systems, not multi-occupied rocket launchers, not planes, not helicopters, we haven't had one pair of military uniforms, we haven't had new boots for members of the Serbian Army. We've got it all now. Now I ask all of you together, all of you who are crying bitterly for the SNS amendment, did you make it possible? Is that the result of your policy? Today you laughed at the fact that Goran Kovacevic mentioned the opening of new school playgrounds in Kragujevac, so did you make it possible? Is that the result of your policy or SNS policy? You in the lack of politics, you in the absence of concrete results what are you offering? Violence, insults and bitter tears because SNS MPs have submitted amendments, and the result of your policy is that by 2012, we did not have an army. Finally, to remind you, those who are crying over these amendments, Wikiliks announced, in 2007, that in 2007, Michael Poult's deputy, then US Ambassador to Belgrade State Department, what Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac told him, that his mission, I quote, is that Serbia is slowly preparing for NATO's introduction to the pact, and that there is not enough trust in 200 members of the MUP because of their, says Kosovo experience, referring to armed conflicts with Cypriot terrorists during 1998 and 1999.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28448	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28449	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, a member of 108 has been injured where you should take care of the session. I ask you, you are about to allow Mr. Martinovic to enter, because he has been suffocating and suffocating forever for two days and he could indeed also do epic poetry. We listen to everything that was before... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28450	My colleague Pavlovic, I ask you that if you advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you do so in such a way that you do not insult the MPs. (Sonja Pavlovic: What are the geese offensive? ) Goose at some event is not offensive, but calling someone's discussion by suffocating is quite offensive. Ask for a word again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28451	Thank you. I'm asking you to keep an eye on what he's been saying here for days and stop him on time. If you do your job, it won't occur to us that we're doing this job for you. So he can't tell us here the last 10-15 years of events in Belgrade and can't run a pre-election campaign for the Belgrade elections here. He can't act like he's the head of his MP club and he's talking to his MPs and telling them it's perfectly normal that they've submitted the amendments. Well, I guess they know that. Is he supposed to tell them directly here in the Assembly? Gentlemen, it is normal, but you could've just put them on the budget, so let's talk about the budget for three days, not aimly trying not to get to the budget. So it's something that's inadmissible and we're all playing. It's a game played by the President of the Assembly, accepted by the ruling...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28452	Just tell me, what does this have to do with any damage to the Rules of Procedure? (Sonja Pavlovic: There is because we listen for days... I've been listening to you for days, so nothing. Here, we listened to you before this session started all day about how you proposed, about making proposals to supplement the agenda, and that law, whose content, these same laws, is already well within the legislation. We kept quiet and listened, and we didn't insult either of you in any way, we didn't say you were suffocating, etc. You have no right, too, to point out that Mr. Martinovic must not encourage and support his MPs. (Sonja Pavlovic: This is not a cheerleading team...) I can't understand that. Accept that he wants through discussions of his MPs to achieve maximum, to be convincing. You'll have to accept that. That's not what MPs say because of you, but because of the citizens of Serbia, who need to know what they were doing while they were in power. By amendment, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28453	Here, once again, I welcome the fact that the government of the Republic of Serbia has changed five military ministers in five years, until it has concluded that the ideal solution is Mr. Vulin, who is doing the job much better than all of his predecessors. The other thing, indeed, is the important information that Aleksandar Martinovic made about "Vikliks" and I call on him to remind the citizens of Serbia once more and all of those "Vikiliks" dispatches related to Aleksandar Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28454	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28455	I'll remind you. I also welcome Mr. Nemanje Sarovic's presentation. I will read all the "Vikiliks", and those related to Tomislav Nikolic, and those related to Alexander Vukic, as well as those related to Vojislav Seselj. There is a dispatch that says that the Americans found out that in 2002 they located Vojislav Seselj and Zoran Djindjic walking together through a Belgrade park and talking. That information came to the State Department. We can read such dumplings here hundreds and thousands, and it's no problem at all. But, then, let's not read selectively, but read everything, because the Americans since 2000 and how they've taken care of the behavior of more or less of every more important Serbian politician. To be clear, I don't think anything is ugly if someone's name is found in the dispatches published by WikiLeaks. So, I don't think it's an insult to Vojislav Seselj, that the Americans sent some dispatch to their foreign ministry for him. There's nothing to argue about, I just want to tell you that... Nemanja Sarovic: I don't know what I mean. Well, it's important that you know everything. So, I just want to say about the 2007 deficit, it refers to the Minister of Defence who said, which was passed on to Washington, that his mission is to bring Serbia, or Serbia's Army, in a peaceful and thus NATO pact due to the resistance of Serbian citizens, and that there is no trust in, he says, 200 members of the MUP because of their Kosovo experiences.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28456	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28457	Mr Arsic, in addition to your regular abuse of the Rules of Procedure by giving representatives of the ruling coalition the right to reply and when they do not have it, you have done it once more by who knows which time in this session. Article 104. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly say - If the MP in his presentation is offended by an MP who is not a member of the same political group, citing his name, last name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party whose MPs belong to the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group shall have on behalf of the parliamentary group the right to reply. The President of the National Assembly shall decide on the exercise of the rights referred to in Articles 1 and 2 but not on the basis of free will or current mood, but on the basis of the criteria laid down in Articles 1 and 2. The fourth attitude says – The replica cannot last longer than two minutes. I was in my presentation, check the stenogram, my presentation was extremely brief, I only praised everything Martinovic said, pointed out the exceptional importance of his allegations about “Vikliks” and invited him to present in the next exhibitions what he once said for Aleksandr Vukic and Tomislav Nikolic. In no single word have I offended him, nor the MP's group, nor anyone else. But the problem is it seems to hurt the most when we praise you. Aleksandar Martinovic, at the meeting of the Administrative Committee, gave me two warnings because I said that he was, in my opinion, the most beautiful and wisest in the Serbian Progressive Party, that he was an example of consistency, a beacon of democracy, etc. He said he wouldn't let me make fun of the National Assembly, which I absolutely didn't. Don't you think so? So it's no good when we criticize you, it's no good when we praise you. You're doing great.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28458	I'm not good either when I let you talk two minutes and 25 seconds in your Rules of Procedure, even though it's only allowed 20 seconds. Otherwise, you yourself called your colleague Martinovic. Nemanja Sarovic: Commendation. Is that forbidden? ) You called it, as far as I know, that some more "Vikiliks" recruits were announced here in the Assembly. I just wanted to go out to meet you and allow Martinovic to grant your wish. Now that you didn't like the result, I'm really sorry. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28459	Here, I want to thank Mr. Sarovic. A copy of the CIA analysis on 26 September 2000, which recently downloaded the code of secrecy – Serbian radical party leader Seselj, and member of the running training who sees his as a Kingmaker etc. According to this 2000 analysis, Vojislav Seselj, who, seeing Slobodan Milosevic losing power, separated his party from Slobodan Milosevic and recognised the results of the elections made by DOS in public, although the entire election material of the Federal Election Commission was burned. That's what the CIA's analysis of September 26, 2000 says. So there's nothing controversial here. If we're going to read American dispatches, if we're going to read... (Marco Djurisic: Fourteen years it took you to understand.) Just yell, feel free, it's no problem. If we're going to read the dispatches, then we're going to read all the dispatches. I repeat again, there is nothing offensive if a Serbian name is found in some American dispatches. It's their job. So they have their spies and agents in Serbia who report to their foreign ministry. It's their legitimate right. It's sad when we get a man who admits to being a foreign agent and in his biography as a defence minister's candidate, he boasts that he finished his intelligence course at the Marshall Center in Garmis-Partenkirhen.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28460	Which member of the Rules of Procedure? (Alexander Martinovic: I said at the beginning, Article 27) According to the Rules of Procedure, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28461	It's a business thing. Mr. Veroljub Arsic, whenever any of the MPs belonging to the opposition parties are called to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure and you and the other chairman very impatiently interrupt them and ask them during their presentation – and which member, and which member? Or even ask before they even get the word, which you're not authorized by the Rules of Procedure. Article 103 clearly states that the MP has the right to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which Aleksandar Martinovic did in his previous address, in no way. So he had to point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure that you did by chairing, which means during your chairmanship. The second thing, says Article 103. - The MP is obliged to indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the actions of the President of the National Assembly and to explain. He didn't do it either. When he finished his presentation, you asked him, and which member? So, he abused the Rules of Procedure and I call on you not to impose sanctions on him, because we in the SRS find it undemocratic, that it is incompatible to punish the MPs in such a way, and that by jeopardising someone's personal existence, you will be having a political argument with those you can't discuss, but I ask you to subtract from the SNS parliamentary group those two minutes spent using the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28462	Coliar Sarovic, while speaking from the ranks of MPs sitting on my left, your right hand side, I heard a salva ovation, so I wasn't sure if he mentioned which member was involved in the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I asked him just in case when he finished his presentation. (Inemnja Sarovic: I want the National Assembly to declare itself. In the day of the vote, the people will declare themselves. By amendment, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28463	According to the amendment, since you did not give me the replica, although my colleague Martinovic directly called me, concluding with a minor charge that I did not know what I had dipped, destroyed tanks and the rest. But it's not crucial now. As for this debate about WikiLeaks and what it says, I agree with the fact that it should be published, it should be understood that these are not sacred letters, that these are information that these American ambassadors or associates and diplomats send about their contacts and impressions from Serbia. There are, of course, various names and interesting things to keep in mind, but of course you don't understand, I say, as a holy letter. On the other hand, you have to understand, I don't know how you don't understand, that when you're talking about the leader, I don't know, DS and you're quoting that place and some other stuff, it might be true, maybe it's not, it should be checked, I guess there were the competent services that were supposed to check it out. You must understand that it affects DS MPs and that they have the right to react, as if we on this side, or when someone on this side mentions some meetings in the basement in the Lambs with Hague investigators, it hits you, and then everything is done on the other hand, or it is thrown or denied word and so on. So, also, fellow Miki, when you mention Vuk Jeremic, his heart bleeds, for example, or Mark, mention Boris Tadic, so don't have double arches, neither you nor the chairman. It is thought perfectly logical that here, for days, the scariest, ugliest, ugliest words speak of the representatives of the opposition, and now you've started some leaders, tweeters, hairdressers, makeup girls to mention, which I didn't understand very well what it was about. Anyway, so let's have the same arches. Of course your bench is longer, of course you'll have a bit of a discount. I don't mind in the media or in the chairman's office, but let's try it a little bit, let's do some balance, otherwise you'll really have an empty room on this side. And it's no problem to be an empty hall, maybe some are looking forward to it, but the problem is that when there are no dialogues and debates like that in the assembly, I agree that it's not a theater, I agree that it's not a science academy, but some standards have to be respected and some rules are respected. What we are doing these three days is, I repeat and stress, a kind of parliamentary obstruction by the ruling majority. It may not be clear to the citizens. Maybe we haven't been able to explain it well enough, the opposition. Anyway, so I didn't melt any tanks. Turns out the tanks and they can't melt into the Smederevo Ironworks, but I was, of course, very critical, very critical at the expense of the current defence and policy minister at the time, because there are no written clues, my texts and my statements. Your question is rhetorical, are you, like, referring to the opposition, who bought the systems, who imported them, who brought the planes, who brought the fighting tools. Well, of course it's not a job or a journalist, or a make-up, or an opposition. It's the government's business, it's the government's business. There's one fact that you've read here yourself, and that's what I end up with. Do you really think the government and the government that changes five defence ministers in five years, five military ministers, can talk about a consistent policy, that a system can be talked about. Not to say how many finance ministers and economic ministers, how many unsuccessful experiments, began with this miracle of little Lazar Krstic, such a miracle of a child who disappeared untraceablely, as well as these defence ministers, some of whom may have been capable, some of whom are not. But if there were any concepts, if there were human resources policy, then there probably wouldn't be five defence ministers in five years. Every citizen will have to agree to that. One last thing. Don't pretend like there was a flood about before you and then the sun after you. It's not true, or at least it's not quite as true as you are now. The army fell apart, but it was in bad shape, I agree. The economy broke down, threatened to go bankrupt, so no one talked about bankruptcy until this government came. Then it started talking about some bankruptcy. There's been a crisis, there's been bad trends, there's been bad politics, after all, and that's why your government came. So let's not go too far because that's how someone will talk about you once in a while. After all, half a decade, for more than five years, it's a really long time so we can really switch everything over to these evil yellows or I don't know of anyone else, and I agree that the wrongs wouldn't have been the former if they hadn't made mistakes. But you better watch yourself. Indeed, the last thing, Mr. Sarovic. It's nice of you to quote what WikiLeaks was saying about, I don't know, the then secretary of defense, what he was saying to American intelligence, about politics towards the NATO Pact. But take a little care of what's going on today, which is now going towards the NATO Pact. How many approaches, how many agreements, how many military maneuvers, how many statements, how many visits to NATO's pact headquarters. We must co-operate with everyone, but let's take a look at it, not to mention Kosovo and politics towards Kosovo, as far as Kosovo was independent or far from independence in 2012, and how close it is now to that independence, how close it is to the chair of the UN, so we better look at it, as the poet says – look at the home of your angel, and then, of course, we'll talk about the mistakes of the former, futures, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28464	Minister Djordjevic has a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28465	Mr Vukadinovic, first I would like to warn you to say AP Kosovo and Metohija, not Kosovo, and secondly, to tell you that investment in the military can be directly or indirectly. I'm going back to the beginning of your speech, and I have to tell you that in 2012, the poor condition that was found was depicted in the fact that it was purposelessly spent and that there were great operating costs. When you look at what needs to be ideal for everything to work, it's that there's a ratio of 50:30 to 20, 50% to personal, 30 to operational and 20 to investment. This proportion did not exist in 2012. When you talk about continuity, it turns out that exactly these results that MP Martinovic said now show that continuity and how there is and how there is a result and how it exists. It was our idea to arrange the system, reduce the operating costs and transfer those operating costs to personal and investment. That's what we did. But what is not said here, which is the result of this government and the result of the previous government of Alexander Vukic, is success, that after 40 years, we invested in our dedicated industry 50m euros in 2017. We invested 50m euros, for the first reason we want to raise our dedicated industry, and on the other hand, to rely on Serbia's military equipment being precisely from the resources of our military industry. And that was the plan in 2012, which was the first results in 2017, which is the process in the economy, it's all cyclic, and when you have one accelerant going down, it's inevitable, you can't go into bankruptcy right now, it took time to show that the state was going into real bankruptcy, so the measures in 2014 had to happen. When you want to go uphill, this happens – investing in the military, investing in...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28466	Time, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28467	... And then there's the result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28468	Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28469	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, how important the independent and independent judiciary is, says this amendment that I have submitted, but also some negative examples from the past that we all remember for sure. It was not so long ago in 2003, when the executive, legislative and judicial authorities were in conflict with each other, precisely because they wanted the judicial system to be put under the control of politicians and politicians. It is terrible when someone uses the state of emergency to abuse the political position of president of Serbia to resolve judges, to change judicial laws, to pressure judges of the Supreme Court to resign, to help the executive authorities to blame the corruption of organised crime on the judiciary. The very fact that it happens at a time of emergency, when stricter rules apply, also indicates a high degree of abuse of official positions. The abuse and in the sense of calling for constitutional mechanisms and government initiatives to be replaced by the leaders of the judiciary who have prevented and put forward arguments and then illegal judicial reform. So it is necessary to make parallels sometimes and now, to remember how it used to be, that such mistakes would never be repeated, in order not to be subject to influences, political influences, blackmails and manipulations. Of course, there is a greater financial basis for the judicial system to be provided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28470	The 11th Amendment was filed by MP Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28471	I thank you, Your Honor. My amendment concerns budget investment planning. The 2018 budget plans 15 billion dinars to boost the economy. These incentives have proved to be an extremely good instrument for attracting investments, i.e. investors. And not only that, the World Bank analysis showed that the total amount of expected public revenues is 4.08 times higher than the total amount of subsidies granted. It is also expected time to return incentives through public revenues – 14 and 07 months, which also shows the justification of such subsidies. I'll remind you that, thanks to these subsidies, Alexander Vukic has opened 60 factories. I have just listed the factories and will continue to list them, because I think it is extremely important for the citizens of Serbia: "CG Corp" in Ruma – 406 workers; "PKC" in Smederevo – 370, and it will be employed 1500; "Svarovski" in Subotica – 200; "Kalcedonija" in Subotica – 2000 workers; "Ginsi", Turkish textile factory in Krupanje – 120 workers; "Kromberg Shubert" in Kruševec – will be employed by 2500 people; "Leoni" in Nis opens the third factory, currently one of the largest employers in Serbia – 5700 people employed, invested 22m euros and will employ 2200 people; the factory "Mej Ta" in Obrenovac – 770 people; in Žitoraj – 160 people employed in Vladic Han, in "Telem" in 413 cities and "Teleting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28472	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28473	Thank you, President. My amendment refers to improving the position of the most vulnerable social groups and their full inclusion in all spheres of social life. I must say that, ahead of the 2012 elections, the Democratic Party told Serbian citizens that the global economic crisis represents and what a chance for the progress and development of the Republic of Serbia. The global economic crisis may have been a chance for them alone, and for the citizens of Serbia it was a road to ruin and ambition. Fortunately, Serbian citizens recognized their manipulations, so they were punished in the elections in both 2012 and 2014 and 2016, and in 2017, in the presidential elections, they showed that they have the highest confidence to lead this country right in Aleksandr Vukic. As for the protection of pensioners, I must say that, regardless of the painful measures of fiscal consolidation, which included saving, at the time of the government of Alexander Vukic, more than 60% of pensioners, and those with the smallest pensions were not reduced at all. So that's how the government of Alexander Vukic and the pensioners with the smallest pensions took care of it. I must say that the conditions have now been met that 86.6% of pensioners are increasing pensions, and this will be greater in January 2018 than in January 2015. Retirement increase is 5%. With economic development, pension growth will continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28474	Thank you. National MP Goran Ciric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28475	By who knows what time the DS has been mentioned and we must be patient to hear the representation of MPs who propose a series of amendments and I will ask Minister Vujovic for the third time to give us at least one view of any of these amendments we hear, so that we know how we choose, whether we will support these proposed amendments. I think it's important that we hear the truth, and you've told some truths that are simply not heard enough here. One of the truths that you have told on the Finance Committee, which is later refuted by some MPs in these performances, is the inherited debt that has been discussed here on the previous amendment and speech, the inherited debt of the city of Belgrade, which is not 1.2 billion, as is often repeated, but 400 million that the Fiscal Council has confirmed in its report as well as how you, as minister in this government, have confirmed. I think it's important, and this is an invitation for you, too, to make proposals that will correct the proposed laws of your government, but I think this is a need to in some way obstruct the adoption of this law and the amendments to the Serbian budget, something that speaks of your nature. You are now acting as opposition MPs in a way that obstructs adoption and the right debate about all these laws on finding a solution and you are dealing in some way with opposition work at a time when you have the responsibility to run the state. The way you ran the state shows exactly this and the debts of local self-government, shows also the debt, growing the debt of the Republic of Serbia, from 15 billion in July 2012 to now 24 billion at the end of 2017.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28476	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Vesna Rakonjac. He's not here. The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28477	I don't think it's our role here to comment on the strategy of individual MPs and parliamentary groups and the use of the rights you have under the Rules of Procedure, it's exclusively your domain. As for the content of the amendments, I'm in all those places where it was necessary to include myself in giving answers. If you ask me, all together, to repeat amendments and repeat explanations that extend the meaning of what is proposed are acceptable, but still does not mean that we will accept them if we do not think that they should be adopted in the proposal to amend and supplement certain laws, or members of the laws that are being opened for discussion. So it's ours to appreciate, we worked four days full, day and night to respond to 2,000 amendments. It's not my place to judge who proposed the amendments, you knew the agenda, you knew which order the laws were proposed, so you knew how to propose the amendment. Just give me one comment. We have the same type of amendment to all proposed laws. The amendments to the budget there are, I have counted, 450 of the same amendments of a parliamentary group, which, among themselves, apply, or propose for all members of the 2018 Budget Law, differ only in the date of next month when the requested reports are announced, and the requested report exceeds what Sweden can afford, not Serbia. So much for that. So the amendments, defacto, are the right to speak, the right to comment, not necessarily improve the text of the proposed laws. That's what you best know, let's be honest at least in that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28478	The 11th amendment was submitted by Darko Laketic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28479	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers and distinguished fellow MPs, during yesterday's debate on details, we also heard remarks that transfers from the republican level from the budget reserve should not be made to local self-government. Namely, I'll tell you he has to. First of all, how not to help local self-governments, when the alternative is bankruptcy because of the obligations created during the exercise of the former authorities. Besides, that's why they're ex-girlfriends. I'm going to give you an example of a municipality, a municipality of Persuasion. How, for example, a municipality that has a billion-dollar budget and 100 million dinars can repay a debt of 2.5 billion dinars over a period of year, two, five, and more than that time period? I'll tell you, not at all. First of all, because of the irresponsibility of the government at the time, it was not a disaster, but a devastation of a local self-government. Currently, it is the very municipality that faces an executive verdict of 202 million dinars, due to commitments that occurred in 2007 to 2009. So it's about the survival of one city, it's about the survival of one municipality, and that's why the transfer from the budget reserve is the only possible variant, the only possible thing that will sustain, not just the municipality, but the whole end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28480	Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28481	Thank you. There's no speaker here talking about the agenda, this is just amazing. Minister, he's obviously not ashamed to say things he knows are false. So, at least we vote for our amendments and the minister knows our amendments make sense. For example, this amendment he was talking about is an amendment that needs to introduce complete transparency, which I, as minister, introduced to the Ministry of Economy in a month, which costs nothing. The minister knows all this, but he continues to deceive the public and participates in this farce from the debate that needs to save him from the amendments that we submitted to this budget of his where he put his hand in the pockets of citizens and businesses and, practically, freed himself and the entire ruling majority from having to save on himself. So, Minister, I've already told you on the board that enough has been prepared to withdraw all its amendments, if you adopt this one on the introduction of complete transparency. We stand behind it, we vote for our amendments, unlike the ruling majority who only wastes time, and you'll see you won't vote for them. We'll come here and vote for their amendments, there's such a farce in the Assembly, but thank you so much for these delusions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28482	Ljiljana Malušić submitted to the 11th amendment. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Ljiljana Malušić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28483	Thank you, President. They've been honoring us here all day as we've been stealing our time with our amendments. Well, that's not true. We are proposing, and they are depriving themselves, and they are stealing our time for years, and that is the truth. He said, "Dear fellow, we've opened one tap, so you've closed all the taps." Your town had no water while you were swimming in beer. That's a shame, one. We opened 60 factories, hired...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28484	Ambassador Malusic, you speak only to me as you speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28485	... I'm sorry, and we hired more than 100,000 people. During your reign, unemployment was 27%, during our reign 12%. Since my amendment applies to culture, I would only say two things about culture, since we don't have time, I have to explain to the citizens of Serbia what makes us different from them. First of all, the most resources in this year's culture were allocated, 21 billion, and you destroyed culture, you closed down all cultural institutions, all museums and one library. We, thank God, have opened the Museum of Contemporary Art, opened the National Museum. That's how the government is responsible. When a man is educated, he knows he has to sit in this assembly and vote for his laws, not vote from Bodrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28486	Member of the 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjusevic. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28487	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, concerning significant infrastructure works, where the use of the funds envisaged has been exceptional and as never before. I will mention, therefore, we talked about Belgrade and the importance of investing in municipalities in Serbia. For example, Bajna Basta municipality, where over two billion dinars have been invested in infrastructure projects, which are all in development and agriculture and tourism, and hence growth, which is the definition of the functioning of this government. We've heard some kind of accusation, and by who knows which time an example of where we're being invoiced on what the previous regime was doing. So today, a group of citizens were talking to the president of Bajna Basta municipality about solving property-legal problems, because this is very important for this country and again in the function of economic development. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) This problem is solved, but Bajna Basta has street lighting, Bajna Basta has no water restrictions, Bajna Basta has a football club called FK Sloga, not a public institution Sloga, Bajna Basta has festivals that are among the first tourist offers in Serbia, Bajna Basta does not have a fictional beer festival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28488	The word has been made by the MP Radoslav Milojic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28489	Thank you, President. I am advertising Article 107 that the previous speaker is obliged to respect, as well as any speaker, the dignity of the National Assembly, he did not. I don't know what regime the previous speaker is talking about, whether or not the one whose access he signed, from the explanation that DS is the best party.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28490	Abuse of Rules of Procedure. You've entered replicas, it can't. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Goran Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28491	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment concerns the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budgetary system of the Republic of Serbia. Point 11 of Article 11 relating to Article 75 speaks of the need for the fiscal consolidation system to function better in Serbia. With this amendment, that is, my amendment, which we are planning, we are applying, we are passing the Budgetary System Act, which is all defined in Article 1. We want to introduce a committee in Article 75 for accounting standards dealing with a more precise, clear and transparent analysis of the functioning of the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. local administrations, to make fiscal consolidation, or macroeconomic parameters look better. Thanks to these very macroeconomic parameters today, the Serbian Parliament is not actually talking about a key economic message, and this message says that anyone who opens a new company in any area, when an entrepreneur and employs up to nine employees, the state of Serbia, thanks to these very macroeconomic parameters, allows you not to pay a single dinar of contributions and obligations arising from the so-called "macroeconomic parameters" in the next two fiscal years. works of labour tax. Citizens of Serbia, young people have never in their lives had a chance to make tax discharges based on labour taxes in two fiscal years. If it hadn't been for this government, these congregational majority, macroeconomic parameters that are the way they are, there wouldn't have been a tax exemption either because when we're bringing the budget and when we're passing the Budgetary System Act and when we're trying to improve it, we're thinking about those who are just getting started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28492	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that we'll be working after 6:00 today. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Lint. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28493	I will talk about an amendment concerning the non-solving of numerous Serb problems in the region. It is widely known that the Prostitute regime of Franjo Tudjman has driven half a million Serbs out of Croatia, into the function of ethnic cementing, ethnic cleansing of the Serbs of the Croatian judiciary. The Croatian judiciary, unfortunately, is not independent and impartial. It's an ethnically motivated judiciary. There are numerous examples of violations of human rights of exiled Serbs. We have several thousand Serb families whose houses have been kidnapped either on fake contracts or on pre-contracts or on contracts that have not been completed. I give an example of a Serbian family, namely Mr. Mirko Vukmirovic, who had a 160-square house in Slavonski Brod and four acres of salary. In late 1991, in early 1992, he had to leave Slavonski Brod, under pressure and threat. He's gone to a refugee shelter. Two years later, he signed an agreement with his neighbour, Hrvat, abroad, to sell his house at the amount of 65,000 marks. The neighbour of Croatia paid him 30,000 marks and refused to pay the remaining 35,000 marks. The neighbour of Croatia managed to sign up in 1994 as the owner of Mirko Vukmirovic's house, although I repeat, he did not complete the contract. Mirko Vukmirovic sued his neighbour and I must say one positive example that the Municipal Court in Slavonski Brod has annulled the entry of the Croat as owner. Unfortunately, the case was transferred to the Municipality court in Djakov, where we have an example of an ethnically motivated judiciary, where the Municipality court in Djakov again decides to register the neighbour of Croatia as owner, although he did not respect the contractual obligation to Mirko Vukmirovic. This, unfortunately, was confirmed by the County Court in Osijek, the Constitutional Court confirmed, the Supreme Court confirmed, and Mirko Vukmirovic, as well as thousands of other owners of Serbian houses, could not exercise his rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28494	The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger George Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28495	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the objective of this amendment is to further encourage poverty reduction in the area of the Republic of Serbia through this proposed legislative solution. We are extremely pleased that the Republic government is working to reduce poverty, but we are offered that by 2016, the OUR yellow company in Vojvodina has done enormous damage and has stolen more than 35m euros from the fund that has served to co-finance new technologies and open the plant in Vojvodina, we are simply thinking that this legal text should be installed, because the ways in which Mr Pajtic and his right hand Petrovic have worked are beyond any idea that any criminal can come to their senses. Yesterday we heard and we said that the compensations were returned through the siphons of one-part, though two-part, anti-freeze glass-cleaning products, coffins, first-class wines, but here's an even more bizarre case where the company ATG from Stara Paz gave about 200,000 euros in subsidies. Normally, none of the new workers were hired, and these funds were paid back through compensation by delivering depilation kits, so 1,016 waxing kits were distributed to students in seven Vojvodina secondary schools, and then I was given 150 waxing kits to the National University, etc. etc. I understand that some of the ones I mentioned really needed these depilation devices, because all the images from the Maldives and other paradise islands showed that they were very well-planned and waxed, which is their right to choose what they would look like, but not by any chance the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime should allow these pleasures, this kind of depilation, which cost 35m euros to Serbian citizens, to go unpunished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28496	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28497	Thank you, President. I would like to say that we as SNS have been defined as a maximum to further reduce the number of poor in Serbia and we have shown this to be a decisive, good, firm and unsettling policy and relation to finance in the past five years. If there were no savings, if there were no responsible SNS debt policy in Belgrade would not have been halved, in Belgrade you would not have increased the number of tourists every year by 20%, in Belgrade there would be no data from September, over three million and 900 thousand tourists, you would not have in Belgrade in the less developed parts of over 100km of sewerage, you would not have 283km of water lines, 260km of heat lines, you would not have four new homes of health, you would not have over a billion dinars invested in the reconstruction and renovation of health institutions, you would not have a regular payment of maternity benefits and other social categories. So it's clear from what we look across the street how much some are interested in the budget, how much they're interested in everything we're talking about in the last three bottoms. How interested they are in Serbia's future have shown numerous examples. They showed this by wearing 1,500-euro shoes, until the army had one pair of whole boots. Today Serbia is moving forward and Serbian citizens are moving forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28498	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28499	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment refers to the functioning of financial institutions and how important it is that financial institutions do their job properly, in one case only, in the case of the Central Bank. In the period from 2008 to 2012, the Central Bank set a reference interest rate of 12, 14, 16, 18 per cent. That when you tell the citizens, it means nothing to them. However, the reference rate is the interest at which banks are owed on the interbank market and at the Central Bank. The level of that interest determines the interest that citizens will pay, both state and economy, so we had a situation where citizens owed 30 per cent and more, the economy by 30 per cent and more, the state by 23-24 per cent. I would like the minister to tell us how much the state is on behalf of the credit obligations created between 2008 and 2012 so far paid interest and in which amount is not millions of euros, but billions of euros and how much we could pay for that amount of billions of euros, how many highways to make, how many schools to reconstruct and make, how many tracks to fix and make new and so on, not to count. Now, I would like the finance minister and the minister of the economy together and the Minister of Labour, the martial arts and social affairs to say, to calculate, and it will take them a few days, how much damage they have paid for such high interest and economics and the population and the state. All I know is that because of one such irresponsible policy run by the DS from foreign reserves, 4.5 billion euros were raised.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28500	The 11th amendment was submitted by Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28501	Dear Presidents, like everyone else, my amendment reads - planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget is realised to the greatest extent possible to advance the fight against crime and corruption in the Republic of Serbia. The objective of the amendment is to further encourage and strengthen the fight against crime and corruption in the Republic of Serbia by means of a legal solution. In some of my previous exhibitions, I listed, of course, not all of them, but a lot of those works or better to say misdemeanors, which remained behind those who exercised power until 2016, i.e. until last year in the AP Vojvodina and until 2012 in the rest of the Republic of Serbia. A little bit more fortunate, conditionally, had citizens in the rest of the Republic of Serbia, because they had to suffer less what was crime and corruption, which one such authority carried with it. Of course, those phenomena had to be faced, and the government of Aleksandr Vukic faced the government in both the first and second terms, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and huge tasks were ahead of the Interior Ministry. The results are visible. I'll try to list some of them, so I'll just say that the number of crimes of the general crime in the period from 2014 to 2017 has been reduced by 9%, i.e. 1,900 less crimes per year. When it comes to the crimes of murder, which are inevitably linked to a general state of society, I must say that in that period, the number of murders was reduced by 15%, the crimes of rape by 27% less, and the number of enlightened is 92%, which is about 7% more than in the previous period. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28502	Blaž Knezevic submitted to the 11th Amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28503	Thank you, Chairman. In order to further improve the infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia, the government should prepare project documentation and interested investors for investing in a very significant corridor called the Moravski Corridor, i.e. the Pojate-Preljina highway, which will connect two corridors to each other, and will pass through areas where about 500,000 people live. The railway has also been reconstructed more than 170km of track by now. The works started on the first part of the Belgrade-Budapest railway, and work is expected to begin on the Nis-Dimitrovgrad track as well. The significance of railway corridor 10 is great. It represents the shortest link between Western and central Europe and the southeast part of the continent. The length is about 2,600km and nearly 800km passes through Serbia, making Serbian railways of exceptional international importance. For Serbia, it is important, above all, because of transit traffic that brings increasing revenues to the state of Serbia year by year, then, because of better economic integration and the possibility that passengers can easily reach the desired destinations. In parallel to this dynamic, there is a need for increased traffic, to reduce waiting time at the borders, and especially for cargo traffic on the railways. In this way, with much less investment, it would allow goods produced in Serbia to reach the end market faster and shorter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28504	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was filed by Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28505	Thank you. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 11. The law on the budgetary system in order to improve equal investment in all districts in the Republic of Serbia. I'll refer to the Department of Defense's division in this case. When we talk about the defence industry, this is also very important from the point of view of the state, but also from the point of view of the defence industry employees. When it comes to a factory in Triestenik, it was one of the largest debtors up until a few years ago, even the fourth debtor in the Republic of Serbia and was really on the verge of collapse. With Mr. Aleksandar Vukic's big push, then Bratislav Gasic, Mr. Djordjevic, and now Mr. Vulin at the head of the Ministry of Defence, this factory managed to stand on its good feet and recover. What is the plan for the next period is that this factory is actively involved in the production of new fighting systems and precisely for the needs of the Serbian Army, especially in the production of a military vehicle in Milos, and to return to the position it belongs to and to welcome the future. An example is how knowledge and using its own capacities, of course, with the support of the state, can deal with difficulties. The factory is export-oriented and has positive balances. What's important is that the factory has renovated its machinery park with its own means and bought as many as nine new machines, so not from the loan, but from its own resources, and this is a prerequisite to go to market, to contract new businesses to hire new young workers. It is particularly important that in the new 2018 budget it is planned to use 13.2 billion in the division of the Ministry of Defence for machinery and equipment. And this amendment is precisely aimed at fostering a flat investment in all Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28506	The 11th amendment was submitted by Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28507	Thank you. Dear ministers, respected colleagues, as well as previous amendments, and this is aimed at strengthening the health system, because we have to work on it and we have to recover our country, and I must say that the leaders in local self-government are working on it, so, fortunately, in Kruševec in 2012, Mr. Bratislav Gasic, who at that time gave up his salaries in favour of young couples and buying wedding rings for them, but not only that, Mr. Gasic also gave up the compensation he received as a member of a board of directors for equipping the sensory room at the Centre for Persons with Disabilities. In contrast, some former, fortunately, presidents of municipalities from the neighbourhood, those who do not hesitate to sell their own parties to a Vuk Tadic Jeremic to achieve some goals, did not give up compensation, but also received compensation in various boards of directors, and not only them, but also members of the family, some of the principals and mother-in-laws and fathers and wives in certain TV positions, and they are talking about some nepotism and some thieving, and where they stole more if not, if they received the highest salary from all the presidents of the municipality and that they had only reduced that salary on the orders of the State Audit Committee. Now, that's what the results are about, and here's the final election for the local community councils in my town, where the SNS got 98.5% of the support. We keep going faster, stronger, better, and they're going to the political dump, where they deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28508	The 11th Amendment was submitted by Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28509	Development, ladies and gentlemen, which is the subject and this amendment is, of course, possible when serious and responsible policies are being conducted. I agree once again that development not only has the proper support for the implementation of the budget today, but I also agree with Mr. Minister that the city of Belgrade is an excellent example of development and excellent potential when we talk about further development, and our capital, but also our countries as a whole. This is seen today, among other things, by impressive results in the capital and by the return of a billion- and 200-million-dollar debt left by the yellow tycoon Dragan Gilas and by the results in the meantime built infrastructure. This is evident from all the good results that we are proud of and do not hesitate to talk about them. When it comes to the devastation of the city during the yellow tycoon, Gilas Dragan, it is clear that after his announcement that he has the intention of returning Belgrade and Serbia to the past, in the ugly and dark past, many in this hall feel kind of encouraged, they fully rejoiced today. Dragan Gilas will not succeed in returning Belgrade at a time when he burned and burned, when, as he said today, he also guaranteed some property, only someone else's, the property he robbed by the citizens of the country, the property he listed and eventually led his parent yellow company to a beggar stick. Offering the same today, it shows only one thing that he and those who follow him, as well as their joint chief Miroslav Miskovic, appear to have completely lost their money in the meantime, and therefore intend to, if ever given them a chance, ride again on the backs of our capital's citizens. It is up to the citizens of Belgrade not to allow it this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28510	On Article 1st of the amendment is Ambassador of the People Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28511	Thank you, Chairman. With great regret that no representative of the yellow company is with us today in this debate, but even those who love movies, I will say that I have submitted the amendment, so to Article 11. It's a bill of law. It's the same as before with the same explanation. So, the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, as one of the priorities. We have already pointed out here many times the reasons for this, and the main reason is the need for a more efficient and functional public administration, especially when it comes to local self-government and we have instructed examples, unfortunately, of both Smederjevska Palanka and Vračar municipality. What we did not say, therefore, is one example, when it comes to the Public Business for the Management of Business Space at Vračar, therefore, and their practice for the obsolescence of demand, to pass months, months and years that they do not carry out any security measures and charges, leading to a minus of 780 million dinars. Of which 422 million dinars have fallen. So they couldn't charge, because those claims were obsolete. Besides, bad contracts were made, so, no insurance, no bonds, no bank guarantees, no nothing. There's an example that was the most drastic in that sense. So, the Public Enterprise, which was otherwise located at Njegosheva 77, rents a room to a company at the same address, Njegosheva 77, just a few meters from them. And that company doesn't pay a single dollar in the name of the rent for months and years for those rooms. So they too hated to cross just a few meters across the door, to deliver a solution, or a warning, or a complaint. This is an additional example of how yellow pests led the Vračar municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28512	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. He's not here. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28513	Thank you, Chairman. We have submitted this amendment with a view to serious changes to the Budgetary System Act, and this is about commissions whose work needs to be professionalised as much as possible. It needs to be professionalised for reasons that what has been going on in the last six years in the Republic of Serbia, what is happening with the 2018 Budget Proposal where spin amendments, the Botovarian MPs are trying to reverse the issue of essential issues, such as the 50% budget increase for the Prime Minister's Office, 290 million for the costs of the Serbian government's aviation service, 360 million for gondola, 14 billion for the railways, 15 billion for penalties for court solutions, 12 billion for foreigners who are due to start an economy in Serbia, 60 billion for contracts and specialised services, 5.5 billion euros for new debt, and, of course, with all that reduction in social protection spending of 600 million, a reduction in wages and pensions continues. These conceits and the great moralists who try to lecture us here about how we immorally should first return their salaries that they stole, because together, while sitting here the doctor from Kruševac, who calls me, receives a salary at the Kruševac Health Center and has received a year ago, and now tells me about all sorts of nebulises, bringing brutal lies. She could look up to her boss, Mr. Gasic, and give up at least one salary or this assembly or those below, or she has the opportunity and the ability to work two jobs at separate locations at the same time, since they are trained to "teleport" in Krusevec and all in order to help citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So this is the way we are discussing the amendments and, unfortunately, it is also an obvious strategy for the ruling majority to hide the truth about the Republic of Serbia's 2018 budget and the many nebulises that are there, such as the fast response administration you've been promising since 2012, the budget envisions 10,000 dinars for the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28514	The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28515	Thank you, President. Another example of how a coworker defends himself with fiction, and we all know it's impossible to receive a salary in two places. You know, as a MP, I have the right to do my job here, but I'm standing still, which is confirmed. A colleague deals only with fiction and thus wants to lead Serbian citizens astray. Honestly, what I said before, I didn't make anything up. Let a colleague confirm whether he was and received salary as president of the municipality of Trstenik and that he had only reduced that salary by order of the DRI, otherwise Trstenik was a devastated area. Were his father-in-law members of the Governing Board of the First Five-year-olds at the time of his term of office? Did a colleague take a tractor from the same state and from the same Ministry of Agriculture that he spits every day? He submits various drafts of the law and wants to reduce the importance of this government and all those who are trying to get the state back from the bad path that the previous government had brought it to, and the one that belonged to it. Was it G17, any movement or now Tadic's Wolf, who? I really can't figure out that someone doesn't have any shame, first of all, to sit here and talk to us. I didn't steal anything. I can go to justice, if it stands, I have no reason to justify myself to anyone, especially anyone who has devastated this country, Triestenik, where it must not appear to the citizens. That someone knows how to mention me - a doctor from Krushevec. He's the one I want to invite to bring in that degree of mine he's hiding, dig up people all over the Trieste to find her, and she's not there yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28516	The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28517	Thank you, Chairman. When there are no arguments, then he reaches for lies, so I'll answer nicely, since I've been invited to answer all of this. First, Triestenik was never a devastated area, unless you brought him into that area with your work and engagement. The fact that you're calling me for an election result these days, to get to know you, since you obviously don't know that. In the 2016 elections, the same number of mandates won the list with my name and last name, as well as the list led by Aleksandar Vukic with eight other parties and all of you who tried to win the same percentage of votes there, as we won, which is 35.7%. Next, about "The First Five," you're the last one to say something, because you shut it down, and that's what the competent authorities will talk about someday. So today, Petoletko is run by the vice-president of the SNS Municipal Committee in Tristenik, managed by the director you set up here, and by a private firm, because you previously shut down the First Petolet, pushed into bankruptcy, and now these jobs are done by a private firm, you steal money that was state and from the workers of the First Petolet. As for the tractor, I have no intention of answering. They're also your spins. As for my degree, you're the last person I'm gonna show it to, and that's completely public. I graduated from state school and you probably did, I guess. As for the mention of my family, the people you mention were long before I began to deal with politics doing jobs at the First Five-year-olds and never received any compensation for membership, as I did, on the Management Board. You better think about what you're doing and how you're going to get out in front of your citizens in Kruševec, who you've been harassing and lying for years, your colleagues at Kruševac Health Center, than you want to honor me and teach me lessons.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28518	Thank you very much. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28519	Thank you, President. Interestingly, just in the period when the previous speaker was president of the municipality in Tristenik, an NGO for the promotion of human resources was formed and that the NGO was the father-in-law of the previous speaker. I have proof where the father-in-law signed it, and that the previous speaker even pleaded to give authority to Mr. Knezevic to answer it, to do and to make deals between that NGO and the Employment Directorate, where he was the director of the gentleman mentioned. Otherwise, the seriousness of this and the work of the previous speaker are also mentioned by his tweets. So imagine that when a prominent citizen in the age of 30 and a few, young though, but still it's not so much to deal with things like this, he says -- it looks like BIA is doing other jobs besides paved roads, so I found this on the terrace, so let the owner come forward. At the invitation of the press, he says he was just joking. So I don't know if we should even believe this gentleman's word, he showed, and the citizens point to the election, so we have nothing to be afraid of. Thanks, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28520	Members of the 12th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs of the SRS and MPs, Aleksandra Jerkov. Here you go. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28521	Mr. Minister, we have reacted here because of the fact that it is absolutely unnecessary to amend a basic member of the law, which is a member of the 12 here, because all DRI obligations are clearly foreseen, and this can be a major problem, because many local self-governments avoid first. We had such a case in Kragujevac several times that Mladjan Dinkic as the finance minister at the time informed local self-government that it was not necessary to hire an external auditor for budget spending, and that is the situation, I believe, and now in many local self-governments. Regardless of the process of public procurement, and how it can affect who is going to carry out this external audit, and that is why we ask that the DRI decides, that, in addition to the consent to do so, it must be indicated which auditory house to do so, not to be the brother's favorite principle, and that one of the presidents, particularly the arrogant and those who use the budgets of local self-government to provide their party friends, godfathers, comrades, have spent the money of citizens. But what is important, and I ask you to consider this, Mr. Minister, in the future, to find a legal basis and a bill in the future, to oblige local self-government to carry out an internal audit. You, as a man who comes from the world economy, know very well that in the world in large corporations, and what can be the second local self-government that has public enterprises, which has so many employees. So the predecessor of all of this, internal audit must be very important. And you know why? Well, just in order to prevent mobsters, muggings, abuses, spending on positions of budget local self-government, where it is highly subject to manipulation and through the formation of phantom organisations, the financing of any non-governmental sector, specialised services, contracted services, and that all of this is carried out by the responsible man must be at the head of every unit of local self-government. So internal control is much more important than what someone's going to do through the hiring of an auditory house, which is going to go on hand, and we're just asking it to be verifiable, and the DRI is going to decide what external audit is going to come into that local self-government unit to prevent robbery and abuse.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28522	According to the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 87(1), I set a break of one hour and continue at 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 12th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28524	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's about the audit and the local authorities. If it had worked during the former regime, there would have been no press releases paying for this, like, descending from the tractor. So he paid six average pensions for one statement at this same time, and that municipal money. The president of the municipality of Trstenik signed a contract. He contracted with "Time" to make a statement to print and to pay 144,000 dinars. They call it independent journalism. I'd dare call it a mercenary journalism, a very expensive mercenary journalism when someone spends six pensions, to make a statement for him with a favored newspaper. Also, it would not have happened if Smederevska Palanka municipality remained in debt for three to four billion, while its president had a tank in the evening. So his head of the party sells the tank for $4,000, and this Heineken from Palanco, who owed the municipality three to four billion euros, drinks one tank of 375 thousand dinars, at the time that's the price of over $4,000, so he drank one tank for one night. The shoes, which buys 1,500 euros, cost exactly about 60 arrows. So that's the price at which his boss destroyed the M2 arrows, though they cost over 10,000 euros. If the audit had been done locally in local self-government, it wouldn't have happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28525	The 12th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Milena Turk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28526	Thank you, President. I have submitted an amendment to Article 12. The law on the budgetary system which is attached to the provisions on the engagement of the DRI. Given that local self-government has inherited numerous irregularities from a period of the former government, it is necessary that we have a complete report and cuts of state. So the DRI found that in Triestenik, Pirote, Titell, Negotina and other municipalities, we had the highest-paid presidents of municipalities in these municipalities. All these generals, i.e. Their budgets, at that time, were in deficit, except Negotina, and at the time when the president of Tristenik municipality received a salary of 113,000,00 dinars, the average salary was 34,584,00 dinars. The President of the municipality of Trstenik, then, whether he was from the URS, G17 or I can't determine any more from which party, but whoever he entered or shut down or was very well cashed, has, by law, increased that salary to himself and knowingly. So he knowingly broke the law and paid himself an increased salary. So it was until 2016, so practically with this DRI remark, only three last shift salaries were received with a reduction, so it was also for the former reason of the municipality. In order to develop all parts of Serbia, we must really have all the information about how it used to be done, how it is now done, so I have to look back at the first five-year factory, because then the president of the municipality, not only was he on the Supervisory Board, but he was the chairman of the Supervisory Board, along with his mother-in-law and other members of the URS, and they all nominated that the factory received subsidies from the state worth 30m euros, and was parallel to the debts of 120m euros. So three times what the factory's worth. Now, of course, it's strange to them how a factory can do without a single dinar of subsidies, and with a good organization to do business, to pay workers wages, taxes, contributions and to pay for all their obligations, which is one stable factory on healthy feet and should pay for electricity, water and all other taxes. I understand that fear of not repeating those disastrous results from Milutovac, with the repeat presidential elections, because the citizens have made an extremely good assessment and are aware that whoever led it, are very good at estimating it in the elections, so Milutovac won two votes, so both votes by the citizens of Tristenik municipality and that is a clear indicator and assessment of their work so far. I am convinced that in all municipalities across Serbia, citizens will punish this policy in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28527	The 12th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28528	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, economic measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia at the end of 2013 and early 2014, thanks to these measures to the first effect in the case of the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence, were shown at the end of 2016. After decades of stagnation, in 2016, the Ministry of Defence received an additional 100m euros, intended for investment, a milestone and the start of implementing a new plan for Serbia's Army's equipment. Two new MI-17 helicopters were purchased, contracts were concluded for the purchase and delivery of nine IKS-145M helicopters and six for the needs of the Serbian Army and three for the needs of the MUP. Through the 1500 equipment project, weapons, electronic equipment, ballistics and protective equipment have been purchased for raising capabilities and strengths, for rapid response, in anti-terrorism and special operations.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28529	Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28530	Thank you. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, for the safety of citizens and a good business environment, Serbia needs an effective judicial system. Much has been done in the previous period, but much has yet to be done, so that Serbia has a better judicial system that will be ready to settle disputes quickly and deal with crime and corruption. It is necessary to continue to take systemic measures, so that the courts are disbursed and that procedures are completed as soon as possible. The most important task is the coordination of over 50 institutions responsible for implementing the Action Plan for Chapter 23 as the most demanding and complex chapters covering judicial reform, the fight against corruption and the protection of fundamental human rights. Our society should rest on the principle that they are all equal before the law and that they follow the same rules. Serbia has long been in situations where there were two groups of people, those honest and honest ordinary citizens and those who abused state functions to play by their rules. The judicial system plays a significant role in the fight against such examples and must continue the fight. This calls for a good foundation in the budget, i.e. a strong financial basis for improving the judicial system, which is also proposed by this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28531	On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28532	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment, I also wanted to highlight the importance of planning investment in the budget. I would again like to point out that I think it is very good that 15 billion dinars are planned in this budget for incentives, i.e. economic subsidies. I think the best example is why good subsidies are in the economy, why they are justified, i.e. why subsidies are justified to investors, my town of Novi Sad, in which, thanks to these subsidies, we have received two world-renowned companies, which have opened their production facilities, are Delfa and Lir. Both companies are, not only world-famous, but world-famous. So they have an annual turnover of over 10 billion euros, employ hundreds of thousands of people around the world and this shows the real importance of this investment. Already in Novi Sad, these two companies employ 3,000 people, and will employ 5,000 people within three years. You know what, it's embarrassing, we could hear from some opposition MPs who attacked these investments at the previous National Assembly sessions. Why do I say it's embarrassing? Because they are all from the "yellow company", and the "yellow company" when it ruled for four years in Novi Sad, they did not bring any investment to Novi Sad within that time. Not only that, gentlemen, but not a single location, nor a plot had an infrastructure to which we could bring an investment, any investment. Thank God, in 2012, this changed, at the head of Novi Sad Mayor Milos Vučević, SNS, came and followed the golden period for Novi Sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28533	The 12th amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28534	I thank the president. My amendment refers to the promotion of the most vulnerable social groups, and to their full inclusion in all walks of social life. This time I'll talk about people with disabilities. In the last three years, in a legislative and functional sense, much has been done to improve the position of people with disabilities. First of all, I would like to point out that there are 43 sign language interpreters in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, who certainly improve the quality of life of deaf and deaf and deaf and deaf people through their associations, can hire them whenever they have a need for such a service in the exercise of one of their rights. Also, I would like to point out that in the past three years, a lot has been done to improve the position of blind and weak-sighted persons, which is to make it possible for blind and weak-sighted persons to use guide dogs in their movement, to facilitate public traffic access, easier access to health institutions, easier access to their jobs. I would also like to point out that in order to ensure full inclusion of persons with sensory and physical impairment, a legislative framework has been adopted, so that the blind, weak-sighted and persons with physical damage to the above extremities in the exercise of their rights and their full inclusion in political life can be used by seals, i.e. faximil. Finally, I would like to point out that this year's marking of the 3rd December International Day of Persons with Disabilities was under the auspices of the President of the State of Aleksandr Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28535	The National MP Vesna Rakonjac submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28536	Thank you. Dear Presidents, respected ministers, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, this amendment, which was proposed, was therefore aimed at making budget resources more efficient and not only by budgetary means, so I am talking about a republican, but also at making the resources available more efficient, which are actually entrusted to local self-government. In fact, the huge expenditure that local self-government has in its budget is related to travel infrastructure. No matter what the state cares about the roads of the first and second order, any local self-government responsible must take care of its travel infrastructure. In spite of the fact that one part of the Republic's budget goes for travel infrastructure, which is maintained by the Republic, one part of these funds is also directed towards local self-governments, primarily funds from the Ministry of Economy, but also very important ataric roads, which are very important, especially in those municipalities where there are many rural areas, and especially if there is a divergent terrain. Such projects are currently being carried out through the Ministry of Agriculture. In addition, I would mention the winter maintenance of roads, which in the municipalities, which again have a large area, and for example the municipality of Prokuplje, for example, extends to 759 km square and covers 107 settlements. Indeed, there is one big problem in terms of winter maintenance. So, with great effort and with the help of the Republic and the Republic budget, it succeeds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28537	Ljiljana Malušić, a member of the 12th amendment, submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28538	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, the objective of my amendment is to strengthen and improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia by means of a legal solution. Education is part of culture. Being educated means having a chance, and culture is a way of life. Is it normal for me in parliament, and above all, our President Maja Gojkovic, to be of uncultural people or whatever you want, abused and verbally and physically, to have our president of the parliamentary group physically attacked, and to have the rest of us hit for years. It's not a culture, that's why I advocate, to insist through all my amendments to be cultural, to be educated. It seems to me that it achieves a little more sophistication in our personalities. Is it possible that an MP from one opposition party beats journalists, abuses women? Is it possible who even votes for such officials? The more educated a man is, the more cultured he should be, and as far as their culture is concerned, we can see from the museums that are closed, here we are now opening the Museum of Contemporary Art, by the library that was renovated, I mean the National Library, for more than ten years. That's how they do it, they close it, and we open it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28539	Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by Ambassador Krsto Janjusevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28540	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in part of the criticism of this budget, which is certainly developed for Serbia's economy, there are some comparisons from earlier budgets, let's say some 2006 budget, and should be pointed out and stressed that the budget was exclusively based on the privatisation revenues that amounted to 1.9 billion euros that year. All of this was treated as general budget income, and then the shortcut went to expenditure. None of this went to investment projects, didn't go where they could produce some growth. It only went to where they could produce growth, in the pockets of the then robbers, the heads of the yellow company and the local gangs that were closely tied to them. Dear Minister, they would attack this budget, but the budget is too good, so they don't have the cocoa to attack it and they're dealing with our story of the right to submit amendments and to prove that this budget is developmental. You've been asked about ice-colds. They're the best in a minute, which is why they miss the ice-crackers, but that's why they had thieves, who were melting and passing through the ice through the investment funds and breaking the fates of this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28541	Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 12th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28542	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law amending the Law on the Budgetary System of the Republic of Serbia is different from the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2018. The year also defines the functioning of financial sector institutions in the general government. When I say general states, then I primarily think that the authorities of the local government. The local authorities, in practice, of the Budgetary System Act, Article 1, define not only the construction, preparation and adoption of the budget of local authorities, but also the control of the functioning of these budgets. In fact, Article 92 discusses the revision of these local administration budgets. We've had a lot of problems with the operation of local administrations for a long time and he's dragged all the way up to recently. In 2017, for the first time in history, probably at the level of the general state, we have a surplus of 0.7 and at the level of the Republic of Serbia we already have a surplus earlier in 2016. It is therefore necessary to use all the mechanisms available to us if we withdraw it from Article 1. The law on the budgetary system, and of course related to Article 92, that this system of control and reporting, in essence, transparency of the spending of public funds, leads to a full level of functioning. It also comes out here to meet in a way and local administrations. It is clear that the deadlines that say the DRI has an obligation to submit a request on April 1st that it must carry out an audit of the local administration, in fact it has only a 15-day deadline to answer you. It will be considered that due to the obligations it has, so it often happens that it is not able to respond within that time limit, you automatically react and that local administration itself makes a decision at its local assembly on the engagement of an external auditor, or the DRI will take control of the local administration during that time period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28543	The People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to Article 12 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28544	My amendment concerns the achievement of the human rights of Serbs in the region. Once again, I will repeat one very important thing concerning hundreds of thousands of Serbs who had properties in the Federation of BiH. In BiH, the process of registering real estate, i.e. the harmonisation of land books and catastras, or even better said the establishment of new land books, as old land books were made even during Austria. I am using this opportunity to invite all Serbs living in Serbia, Republika Srpska and third countries, who have real estates, land, forests, houses, apartments, auxiliary facilities, economic businesses, to apply their rights to these properties in the competent municipal courts of the Federation of BiH. In fact, it is important to follow the ads of the competent municipal courts, where citizens will be invited to come, to submit one application, and along with the application to deliver certified documents as evidence that they are owners of the property. What could be proof? For example, a buy-in contract, a swap agreement, an inheritance settlement, then takes out of the cataster, i.e. the possession of the sheets. Because we've had a lot of cases that, say, a man paid taxes and was the owner of a cataster for a particular country, a forest or an object, but it said in the land book that the real owner was, say, his late grandfather, or his father, or his late father, or it was written that it was a land union or municipal land. Now the threat threatens, what if citizens do not report to these public ads, that the competent municipal courts of that property will prescribe to municipalities, cities or the Federation itself, or that various machinations will be registered by some Bosniaks and Croats as owners. What is important for Serbs to know is that the process is free. So, it's best for them to inform themselves through the land-book offices of the competent courts, to ask what's necessary. When a public call is made, the deadline lasts for two months. It's a subjective deadline. There is even the possibility for Serbs living in Serbia and in Serbian third countries to call for an objective deadline that lasts for a year. It is a sufficient period to collect the necessary documentation, to report their properties and to enroll for centuries in new land books that they are owners of land, forests and all other objects. So, once again, the invitation to all, not only to those who own it, but to all Serbs born in Serbia or third countries, but whose fathers, mothers, grandparents are the owners of these properties, to report on their behalf, the documents are entered as owners. It will be the best way of fighting to retain their rights in the Federation of BiH, from where I repeat, only in the last defence of the country's war has over half a million Serbs been expelled. I also remind you that only over 250,000 Serbs in colonization were evicted after World War II from that area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28545	The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28546	By amendment. I absolutely support the initiative and amendment of MP Miodrag Linta. I believe that currently in the Federation of BiH there may be a major problem with the property of Serbs. I think the government should adopt this amendment. However, that is not enough for me, because the government of the Republic of Serbia must also be involved in this process, so that we do not lose the deed to many of the properties that we had and owned by Serbs. That is why I think it is necessary for the prime minister and president to get involved, to form an intergovernmental commission with BiH and not get into trouble that, as we have remained in Croatia without our own possessions, we remain in the Federation of BiH.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28547	Members of the 12th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger George Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28548	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the objective of this amendment is to further encourage poverty reduction in the area of the Republic of Serbia by means of a legal solution. As part of Article 12, which speaks of a binding revision in the case of local self-government authorities, if this amendment were to be installed, then it would not have been possible for a branch of the yellow company OUR Vojvodina, run by a duo without shame Pajtic and Petrovic, who stole 35m euros from the Fund for Subsidisation of New Technologies. As we've heard, in some companies they've tried to at least fictitiously cover it up by returning and delivering syphon, one-part, two-part, antifreeze, glass cleaning, coffins, wine, resources and depilation equipment, for melting wax. But since there's no funds anywhere in the District Government warehouses or schools where they were reportedly delivered, it's probably just falsified. They went to this point with this insolence to, say, a million and 200 million euros, which they gave to Guarant from Futoga and Fenis from Novi Sad, haven't even tried in any way to conceal that it was a clean thief, because after less than six months, these two companies were closed, one with 14.5 million dinars of loss, and the other with 15 million dinars of loss. How much less poverty in Serbia would have been if this thieving yellow company, theOUR Vojvodina, had never been able to do what it did with the funds of Serbia. So there's absolutely room for this kind of thinking and this kind of amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28549	On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28550	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as well as previous amendments, and this amendment refers to the way financial institutions operate in the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, between 2008 and 2012, our financial institutions did not work in the interests of Serbian citizens. The only investors who came to Serbia at the time were mostly white-world stock exchange speculators. That I am right to testify to very high interest and very expensive loans, in which these white-world speculators invested their money. The fact that I'm right is also the fact that 4.5 billion euros in foreign exchange reserves are thus spent and taken from Serbia. If the only investment the previous government had was the former regime, then the sale of "Maxi" and they consider it an epoch investment, and the second investment is the sale of state securities of value, the borrowing of the economy, the borrowing of citizens, the borrowing of everything that existed in Serbia. With this amendment, I would like to draw the Serbian public's attention to what was happening until 2012 in Serbia. That those who cheated in 2008, remind them of what they had promised them back then, in 2008 and how it ended. It's part of Serbia's citizens. The other one, who should be ashamed because those children they performed here in April, May and June of the month, were to protest, allegedly because of some dictatorship, which they were unable to acknowledge their electoral defeat, which those children of 18 and 19 years of age, while they ruled, were 10 or 12, and they don't know what their authority is, nor can they appreciate how good they are, how good we are. The young man is the easiest to deceive, so they counted on the youngest population, because they do not know the disastrous consequences of their authorities. They don't have that rapper. And I don't want that young population to feel what those citizens of 2008 who trusted them and who believed them in promises like 200,000 jobs, and between 250,000 and 400,000 people lost their jobs, who promised them a better life and made them hell out of life. Well, we're not gonna let you fool young people like you're their parents.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28551	Milimir Vujadinovic submitted to the 12th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28552	Thank you, Your Honor. I have submitted an amendment with the text – planning, preparation, adoption, implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget, so that to the greatest extent possible, the fight against crime and corruption in the Republic of Serbia is improved, and certainly the objective of the amendment is to further encourage and strengthen the fight against crime and corruption in the Republic of Serbia. You know that this legislative proposal envisions an increase in earnings, both for members of the Ministry of Defence, as well as for my distinguished colleague Aleksandar Martinovic, but also for members of the Ministry of Interior who have carried a good share of the burden in the fight against corruption and crime and all that has been inherited in some past period and the rest in the amanet of the Serbian Progressive Party and its coalition partners. How many people have done these jobs, we can hardly thank them only in this way, but it is a good gesture in any case – an increase in earnings, new uniforms for 21 and a half thousand Serbian police officers, 1200 sets of uniforms for 1200 Serbian gendarmes, 26 combat vehicles restored, etc., etc. But they gave it back to us with results. Remember only the monsters of the migrant crisis that, not by our fault, hit Serbia, where more than a million people who have crossed the state border as part of that migration movement have registered and registered. Then 1,400 criminal charges were filed against all those who tried to commit crimes in the illegal transfer of people across the border. I think we owe them a lot of gratitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28553	The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28554	Of course, we support as much investment in the fight against corruption and crime and the pity that Minister Vujovic and the government have not adopted this amendment. As for the fight against corruption and crime, I'm going to tell you a historic fact from 1917 in Russia that preceded the collapse of then-Tsarian Russia, which was at the time the most serious, prosperous economy in the world, which is also concrete data as Russia developed at the time. However, corruption, which at the time ruled among the Russian nobles, among Russian officers, aristocracy, was so much so that neither the police nor the army of Tsar Russia were able to restrain workers, to restrain peasants, who eventually rebelled and overthrowed the imperial government, of course, with the help of the West and certain structures. What do I mean by that? All the help you, Minister, are giving to the military, the police, will not be enough to contain the wrath and social rebellion of the people. There are huge numbers of members and military and police who will not be satisfied with a 10% increase on their salary, because they are aware of how much their colleagues participate in organised crime, how much their colleagues participate in murky drug dealers in Novi Sad, and therefore you need to bring more concrete measures to increase the morale of police officers and soldiers. This contributes to strikes in the union of police, the military union and exactly the Ministry of Interior and the BIA must not be places to hire party parasites who have decided to manage serious institutions and to use serious state institutions to control their political opponents. Unfortunately, the Serbian Progressive Party has no idea anymore which they can handle and which can give new enthusiasm to both the people and voters to vote for them again and therefore expect the people to see through your intentions concerning organisations in the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence. I also have to mention that it's a shame for the Department of Defense to be run by a man who didn't serve the army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28555	The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28556	Thank you, Chairman. Russia's comparison of 1917 and Serbia today, in 2017, shows a complete ignorance of the previous speaker. They're talking about Russia at a time before, practically, the end of World War I, when all the dynasties practically disappeared on a political scene. It would be very nice if we really looked at our own political environment now and created, as Serbia now creates, friends, not enemies. And Serbia's intrusion into these stories, that we should turn to one side and thus solve problems in our society, is a feature of those who sit together with those who were engaged in corruption by 2012 when Serbia was last in the fight against corruption, according to its results. Therefore, the Serbian Progressive Party has passed a series of laws that it implements in the work and a series of system solutions that not only fight corruption, but obviously also bring some people to the law and bring them to court. We will continue to do so and therefore the citizens of Serbia will continue to vote for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28557	Thank you. Blaž Knezevic submitted to Article 12 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28558	Thank you, Chairman. The 2018 budget is a developmental and foreseeable investment that will allow for the growth of gross domestic product and new employment. What is extremely important to point out is that investments remain a priority in the 2018 budget, which clearly states what the government of the Republic of Serbia is like. So, Serbian citizens knew they had to decide when they needed to and made a good decision for Serbia when they trusted Aleksandr Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party. Just since Alexander Vukic's arrival as prime minister of Serbia, major infrastructure projects have been launched, large investors have started to come and are only increasing to this day. Serbia is becoming a network of corridors, both in road and rail traffic, and a whole series of infrastructure projects conducted by the state of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia clearly speak about the fiscal stability of our country. And this also causes the results in some other fields – primarily Nicola Tesla airport, which records all records and five billion passengers; tourism revenue over one billion euros, and 3.3 billion are separate for modernising primary and secondary schools. In the end, I wanted to list all investments and all infrastructure projects in Serbia, since the arrival of Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party, but I gave up, realizing that I would be in trouble, because then we would not be able to adopt the budget until December 15th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28559	The 12th amendment was submitted by Dragan Barisic. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28560	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers and honourable fellow Members of the People, a great task has been put before us in 2012 – to save the state of Serbia. Namely, it was necessary to justify the public's expressed trust and to save the state from the ruined security, economic, political stability. The government of the Republic of Serbia, then Prime Minister, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, and all of us advances, in this room, have made every effort to justify this shown trust and restore faith to a better life. Namely, there are those who are congested in Vienna. Some have been compressed into Mercedes, so they buy tractors, some have compressed the money of citizens of the Republic of Serbia according to bank accounts, and today they announce support for Dragan Gilas's candidacy. But let them do so, we will continue to work in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, because they respect it and reward us in the elections with greater and greater support. What I wanted to point out with this amendment is that the health system that was destroyed in previous years, by 2012, in particular, we were able to recover, we were able to provide a "Gama knife", a gold standard, and justify everything that was missing in the previous period, and therefore we are moving forward with even greater support from the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28561	The 12th amendment was submitted by Vladimir Orlic. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28562	The development, ladies and gentlemen, which we are dealing with and this amendment is best seen in the case of the city of Belgrade and all the good things that have been achieved in our capital after citizens of our capital have driven to the dark past, where it is the only place of the "yellow tycoon", Dragan Gilasa. So, compared to the period when this man, with the help of his most trusted associate, Sapic, burned and burned Belgrade, a dozen of the good things we talked about today, including the reduction of the catastrophic debt of a billion and two hundred million euros for 500 million euros and the training of public enterprises so that they can function successfully. So now with a balance in plus, not a minus of over two billion dinars. Everything is clearly and clearly better than when Dragan Gilas, who seems to be running again to get Belgrade back into the dark past, had the opportunity to show what and how much he knows and can, or cannot. What is the motive for someone to turn to the citizens again, after being properly reprimanded, showed ignorance, incompetence, and thoroughly destroyed everything he touched? Obviously, it's a material benefit. His personal, his co-worker, Sapic and their joint boss, Miroslav Miskovic. When Dragan Gilas says he will vouch for his property programme, he only calls on him to do the same thing he has already shown he can, or he can't guarantee for his parent "yellow company" and lead to bankruptcy. That the subject, in his words, and big things like NATO and Kosovo, should not be sought for such words only to be ashamed, and for those who go out with him to those elections, and for their views on both NATO and Kosovo. What he knew and how he could do, everyone understood very well. Will it give him a chance to go back to where he left off, the citizens of Belgrade will decide again, and no one will, however much they feel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28563	The 12th amendment was submitted by Aleksandar Markovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28564	I thank the chairman. Here we are in Article 12. The bill also adds a new position, i.e. a new position – Planning, preparation, adoption and implementation of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is realised to the greatest extent possible to be in the function of modernising the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it is meant to modernise public administration, with the aim of making local self-government as functional and quality as possible. So we've been out today, but also yesterday, negative examples of local self-government. For example, Smederevska Palanka, I am sorry that the representative of the "yellow company", which is from there, is not here today with us, we had negative examples from Vracar municipality, but I would now point out some positive examples, such as local self-government, when it comes to the capital, Belgrade. Although my esteemed colleague Orlic said something about it, as well as my fellow Filipovic in his address today, I would only say briefly, that at this moment more than 1,000-mile-long construction sites are active in Belgrade, and so far in this term, the debt of the city of Belgrade has been halved, as we heard just now, finished Pupin's bridge, 20,000 jobs, 280km of waterway, 550km of streets and roads, four new House of Health, 260km of heat pipelines. So these are the results for one term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28565	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. They're not here. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28566	Thank you, Your Honor. Another one of the amendments to our Focus Group, and as you already know, Agenda 2030 and specifically target number 17. In particular, it is about external audits of local self-government, i.e. the financial reports of local self-government. It was this congregational majority that allowed the DRI to do its job properly, securely and, above all, through the Administrative Board and capacity and qualitatively and humanely that we strengthened all the resources of the DRI, so that it can carry out its legitimately prescribed tasks, especially as an independent institution. You, as MPs, get every month in materials a handful of reports, and I hope you're reading them reviewing local self-government. Exactly, if the government and this proposal, and we are going in the same direction with this amendment, saying that we would never know about certain local self-governments that the funds of their citizens, the budgets they used, were not intended to use, among other things, some bar bills, in football clubs, in various ways, let's say, in various ways that are not appropriate to the law. What I expect in the continued work of the State Auditing Institution and all those external auditors is that what they find, even if we mamanise and criminally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28567	The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28568	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'll totally agree with a colleague who spoke before me, but I have something, but... In fact, audits have been made in the city of the King, but the decisions of the state auditors have been made for no one, nor are they bound by anything. The public heat company in the King had a report from the auditors, where the unintendedly spent funds used a gold master card for private accounts by cafes and none of it was, but the same SNS authority, chose the director again as director. So, it's nice to say, that's all we have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28569	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28570	Thank you very much. I've been waiting for the internal audit to be restarted. We had a question before, and now we have a question, I'd just like to say next. In Article 92, the wording is added that the local authorities have made a small request that the application for consent laid down in Article 4 of this Article, which is an external audit requirement, be delivered by the DRI by 1 April at the latest. It is in situations, since the DRI has no capacity to audit at all 165 levels of local authorities, then those levels of local authorities, which have a need for this, and cannot get DRI services, that it is the right and obligation to choose independent auditors to carry out an audit, an external audit of these accounts. It does not contradict the requirement that they have their internal audit. So there's an internal audit at all levels, and we're in the middle of a strategy and internal audit, which needs to provide, above all, training for people who have the ability to do it according to international standards, to do it internally, and then external audit. Whether there are audits conducted or not, that's the point. So, it is up to us now to pass laws, to put in the proper laws of this provision, to train people and to work on that right now, in accordance with the strategy that needs to be fully in line with EU standards, and then the proof of all this will be in practice. So, in other words, when the audit reports show that something needs to be corrected, they have to take immediate action. Otherwise, the repeated findings of this audit should lead to some punishment. It is up to us, together, in the Government and Parliament, or to the MPs, to bring these measures, because without it, it will be a law without use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28571	Thank you, Minister. Members of the SRS and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 13th amendment in the same text. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28572	Now that we have come to the final stage of these 300 or how many amendments to these two draft laws, which precede the draft budget law for 2018, it seems to me that it can actually be concluded that we of the members of the government heard how nice it would be to live in Serbia as they described us if everything worked in Serbia, if the institutions of the system functioned. Unfortunately not, but we heard some rather inappropriate discussions about the people, about the citizens of Serbia. One colleague tried to mock people in Serbia who did not know who Uros Predic, Nadezhda Petrovic, Jovan Ducic and so on and says everyone must know. Unfortunately, in Serbia, which should also be discussed, 14% illiterate and 11% functionally illiterate and where less than 10% highly educated, they do not need to know, but all of these less than 10% highly educated should know that they are not the greats of the Republic of Serbia, but that they are Serbian giants. The fellow MP is also known for saying something the other day that I also heard for the first time. She says she'll be happy to vote, and I thought until then that the laws were passed by at least 126 MPs. She said she would be pleased to vote on a law that would be assisted by migrants because we in Serbia have a birthright at a worrying low level and it is a really worrying statement. When you boasted about what you did, no one remembered that, for example, through Minister Vujovic and other ministers here asked Minister Zlatibor Lončar if a deal had finally been reached on the supply of Vimizim medicine for mucopolysaccharidosis, where only 13 patients in Serbia and 13, unfortunately, there is no cure in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28573	Member of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Marko Atlagic and MP Marijan Risticevic. National MP Marko Atlagic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28574	Mr President, with this amendment, I wanted to achieve two goals. It is the first that, if possible, the technical legal arrangements and, on the other hand, to support the Government's proposal to introduce the programme structure of showing the financial plans for expenditure, expenditure, compulsory social security organisations since the adoption of the financial plans in 2018, as well as the gradual introduction for users of the financing of the Republic of the Health Insurance Fund until 2020. Speaking of health care, we're proud of Minister Lonchar, because during his ministry, there's not one affair. We used to be nine, but not to count them. Just for Belgrade to say that seven health facilities worth 100 million dinars have been planned and started, starting with the University Children's Clinic, the Clinical Centre of Serbia, KBC Dragisa Misovic, then the health institution in Visegrad, KBC Zemun, etc. So we're proud of it. Furthermore, while I have taken the floor, we are constantly forbidden by representatives of opposition parties to even talk to our president of the parliamentary group. You heard that today. We're proud of it. Last night, he, along with George Komlenovski, was the only president of the parliamentary group in this high house, a good professor, a good man, a great patriot. In the end, the president, they tell us that we insult. In just one year, 83 times you were offended by only one MP, and he was the prime minister, Aleksandr Martinovic 50 and Aleksandr Vukic 153, from only one. I've got a day, a second. I can read every time they did it. Are we some sort of citizen appraisal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28575	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28576	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, every MP has the right to submit an amendment. If we can't stand them, then we're singles, we're obedients, we're bots, and if we take them again, it's no good, then we're against the government, and I don't know what. We are neither against the government nor we are against the real opposition, we are against the former party of the former regime, the unemployed who have ruined this country along with the bankruptcy directors. We must be dedicated, worthy. There is one German proverb: “There is no pearl in every shell, but each one must be opened. ” Before 2012, this is about health care, pharmacies, and speaking of pharmacies and health care, these members of the former regime's party, Goran Jesic and the team left the House of Health in India at 300 million dinars, 172 million for medicines. This is about apothecary institutions. Although we at RFO paid for the drugs, they spent it on political purposes and those famous lunches – 600 at once, although we in India do not have a restaurant that receives 600 people. We treated 569 people abroad last year, and they treated 45 by 2012. Twelve were rejected in total and all received funds from the government of the Republic of Serbia's budget fund. It's a big difference between them and us and they give themselves the right to criticise us, although we have 13-14 times better results, even though we have a gamma knife, even though we bought radiation machines, did everything they didn't do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28577	The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. They're not here. The 13th Amendment was filed by MP Milena Turk. The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28578	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 13. Budgetary system law. It relies on budget projections and defined funds and implementation of capital projects in 2018, and it is very important that 128 billion are defined for this purpose and 41% are foreseen for the Ministry of Transport, Construction and Infrastructure. This is very important because we also need to invest in highways, in the conclusion of these projects, in restoring already existing infrastructure, because this is the only way to connect in the region and be more attractive to investors and create new jobs. What makes me particularly happy is that for 2018, the project that is related to the Moravia Corridor, which actually connects corridors 10 and 11 and what will be done in the next period is exactly the alignment with the spatial plan and the water protection plan, which is very important for this whole move from Pojata to Preljina and for about 500,000 residents living in this area. It is significant that even two investors are interested in this project and it will really provide space for this entire area to be equipped by highway and is suitable for investing in new jobs and reducing unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28579	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28580	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there have been a lot of words today about how we of the SNS are allegedly obstructing Parliament's work because we have submitted a lot of amendments. I think the numbers speak for themselves. The Serbian Progressive Party has submitted 335 amendments, the Finance Committee has tabled 65 amendments, a parliamentary group of Socialist Movements-The People's Peasant Party-United Peasant Party of Serbia 188 amendments. A total of 588 amendments were filed on our part, and all opposition parliamentary groups submitted 1730 amendments. I think these figures speak enough about whether they are right to claim that it is the legitimate right of MPs to submit amendments or not. If this is about obstruction, then it's clear who's doing the obstruction. As for the SNS, we are not questioning the right of any MP to submit an amendment or to supplement the agenda. As for the amendments I have submitted, it is in the role of affirmation of the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia on further empowerment and modernisation of Serbia's Army. I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia that with the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation, then Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic, and Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin, he has agreed military technical assistance for 2017, which implies the delivery of six moments 29, and for 2018, so next year, 30 modernized tanks T72, 30 modernized armored patrol vehicles BRDM2, two M80 mobile workshops and in the season 2018-2019 PVO systems of medium and small range. I sincerely hope and I am convinced that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will implement this very favourable arrangement for the Republic of Serbia during 2018 and during 2019.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28581	The 13th Amendment was submitted by Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28582	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and this amendment, I have proposed adding a new stance to this article, with the aim of further encouraging and developing the justice system of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia has so far made great efforts to strengthen independence, transparency and accountability, as well as efforts to improve the efficiency of the judicial system. Further reforms in this field mean a foundation in the budget, a good financial basis, in order to improve the normative system and comply with the European and international standards and institutions of the UN, the Council of Europe and the EU. In order to strengthen the rule of law, strengthen democracy, legal security and protect human and minority rights, the Justice Ministry has been managed by recommendations from the European Commission, as well as from all international institutions. In November 2016, the National Programme for the adoption of legal flows of the EU was adopted, and the Office for European Integration is obliged to report three months to the Government on the implementation of the National Programme. I would like to thank the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for insisting that Serbian citizens have a satisfactory judiciary. We were sent here by Serbian citizens. They expect us to do our job, so let it be the submission of these amendments, which have been so criticised these days. They expect us to do our best to make the laws better and to make our contribution to them living in society and the state where justice and justice rule, which is Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28583	The 13th Amendment was filed by Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28584	Thank you, President. This amendment also concerns investment. A colleague just mentioned the construction industry, so I'd like to link it to the investment, because I think it's directly connected. By 2012, the construction industry, as well as the overall economy in Serbia, thanks to the yellow company, was completely destroyed. The construction industry then worked with below 30% capacity. The state owed construction firms between 600m and a billion euros. 5,000 workers from the construction industry were fired. Construction sites in Novi Sad were empty, for example, before 2012 there were below 20 active sites in Novi Sad. Since 2012, i.e. when the SNS is in power in Serbia, the construction industry has so far grown and generates 5.5% of Serbia's GDP, i.e. 1.8 billion euros annually, employs 116,000 workers and operates over 11,500 construction firms in Serbia. Today in Novi Sad, thanks to the dedicated work of Mayor Milos Vučević and his team, we have 723 active construction sites. I'll remind you, before 2012, it was only 20 sites. Today, in Novi Sad, and in all Serbia, everyone can build, unlike the period before 2012, when only privileged tycoons could do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28585	Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 13th Amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28586	My amendment refers to improving the position of the most vulnerable social groups, and for their full inclusion in all spheres of social life. I'll keep talking about one of the most vulnerable social groups, and these are people with disabilities. I must point out that in the previous three years, IPA funds have provided 3.5m euros, and in order to remove communication, or architectural barriers, and to improve the conditions for the movement of persons with disabilities in all those institutions where they exercise some of their rights. In this way, all architectural barriers have been removed in more than 30 police administrations, also in many hospitals across Serbia, in social work centres, in persons with disabilities. I would also like to stress that 400 million are planned to be donated to NGOs at the department's division of labour, employment, martial arts and social affairs, which is precisely for the development and promotion and protection of persons with disabilities. I would like to stress that the Ministry of Labour, or Minister Djordjevic, had a conversation with persons with disabilities associations. I must stress that there are 33 alliances and 526 local associations in the Republic of Serbia. With the economic growth of the Republic of Serbia, growth and isolation to improve the situation of people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28587	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was submitted by Vesna Rakonjac. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 13th Amendment was submitted by Darko Laketic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28588	Thank you. President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs, above all, I would like to look again at the importance of the Toplic region for the budget section on infrastructure, more specifically, regarding the construction of the highway through Toplice, i.e. the Nis – Durres highway. Since yesterday's presentation, I have received countless calls from Toplice citizens, calls in which citizens have spoken to me about the very importance of this project, and I would like to express, first and foremost, the gratitude to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Construction and Infrastructure because it will be a priority in the coming period. I cannot, on the other hand, understand absolutely any position concerning not going through a certain part of Serbia on the highway, not making infrastructure, so as not to do something that would be a prerequisite for development in the region. So, what should the southern part of Serbia remain a appendix, a hole, a place where there will be no investment? Is that an alternative to this proposal that's more than good? Simply, after all these calls I received, I can only say once again that all the expensive, therefore, citizens of Toplice, we are eager to begin our work, of course, and end the works on the highway that will definitely bring new investors, on the other hand, facilitate our relationship with central Serbia, facilitate our relationship with Nis as the central and largest city in southern Serbia and definitely establish new infrastructure links that are a prerequisite for development in our region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28589	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28590	Thank you, President. Dear ministers with ministry associates, ladies and gentlemen, my amendment aims to strengthen and improve the development of education in the Republic of Serbia through a legal solution. That education is recognised as the highest priority also shows the 2018 budget. In 2017, the budget for the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development amounted to 176 billion, and next year the increase is 21 billion, so it will be 197 billion dinars. For wages alone, the increase will be 10.7 billion. Bravo! That's how the government is responsible. Bravo! The government is trying to establish different bodies, making it more fair and rational to distribute budgets, so that they do not happen, for example. UN General Assembly President Vuk Jeremic's candidate is seeking and earning his expenses from the budget of the Republic of Serbia $787.100. Just for wages, listen to this, travel expenses, apartment, team and propaganda predicted $1,362,500. He said he would have three special advisers, two advisor ministers and two first advisors and one regular advisor. It is no longer clear to me who advises who here, which should cost 3.5m euros in total. He wanted to take two drivers, a security guard, one ordinary driver, but also buy three new cars, one in luxury, and make it ordinary. Interesting. After the change of government in 2012, these costs were radically reduced, so Mr. Jeremic in New York cost us just over a million euros. So six times less. What does that mean? That means we have to deal with education and culture, because when a man is educated and cultured, he's got a little scruples, so he's trying to get the state to leave something behind, not kidnap it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28591	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjusevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28592	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is certainly the development of Serbia's Elektroprivreda, where after 25 years we have the biggest project, which is building a third bloc at the Kostolac Termopower Plant, which significantly increases Serbia's energy independence and increases the EP's capacity by 5%. This facility will be built according to world's highest standards. The project is worth $613m, 85% will be financed by China's Exim Bank, while 15% is funded by the EPS. Also, two existing blocks have been modernised at the Kostolac thermal power plant. Annual electricity production of about 2.5 billion kilowatt hours is expected. So this is the biggest EPS investment in the last three decades. The biggest critics of the EPS, those who had the opportunity to run this company, so they put it at the end of their mandate, in front of that EPS, one big minus, they had their own programs that looked more like fiction, so where they could apply them to a full extent, citizens of course received mostly restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28593	National MP Goran Kovacevic submitted to the 13th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28594	Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment concerns the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system. With this law and this amendment, we are making a step because fiscal consolidation and macroeconomic stability concern Serbia's future. When you achieve significant financial results, both in the field of monetary and fiscal policy, then in some ways you have to keep it safe, you have to change the system that needs to work. How important is that we change, not only the macroeconomic parameters, but the system that works, perhaps the best spoken is this particular member to whom I propose the amendment, as well as the next to Article 14. We have failed to introduce the programme budget in Serbia, to live in the republican budget for 10 years. We started preparing the programming budget about 2005 to do so only in 2015, and this was defined by the Budget System Act and translated to the local level. At that time, we thought that institutions, or health insurance funds, would not be able to do so until 2020. Today, after these results, it is clear to us and we are shortening this time period, and we will do so by the Budgetary System Act we require these funds to apply this two years earlier, i.e. 2018. At the same time, we are introducing a special category that is particularly interesting in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which is a pharmaceutical institution owned by local administrations, where the Republic is the founder. It's a terrible blast area, we've got a lot of passing in the functioning of these institutions. They will have to have their programming budget since 2020 and it certainly speaks about our seriousness to arrange the fiscal system as quickly and as high as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28595	On Article 13, the People's MP, Miodrag Lint, submitted to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28596	I will talk about an amendment on improving the position of hundreds of thousands of expelled Serbs, and in particular it concerns 400,000 fighters, or 50,000 Krajina, who were members of the former Republika Srpska Army. In 2014, the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs drafted a bill on the rights of fighters, wartime wartime peoples, civilian invalids of war and members of their families. Unfortunately, no key issue has been put in the draft, i.e. it is not envisaged that 50 thousand Krajina fighters, i.e. a member of the former Republika Srpska Army, will be recognised as a military internship. I had more conversations in the ministry, and I said it was an important thing, to correct a major historical injustice. I was assured by ministry officials that this was not possible for various reasons. I want to give an example now from the state, the enemy state towards us, but a country that has a different attitude towards its fighters. Namely, the Croatian state, that is, the Croatian Parliament recently passed a scandalous Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families, where it is clearly said that all members of the Croatian Council will be protected from the so-called Herceg-Bosnia, therefore, from BiH, will be recognised the rights of Croatian defenders, as well as members of the Croatian army. Also, it is clear that there will be no more deadlines, but that everyone will have the right to prove today that the Croatian defender or the wartime wartime wartime invalid is a source of evidence. I appeal to the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs and to organise additional consultations, to discuss in the draft law on rights of fighters, wartime wartimes, civil invalids wars and members of their families this key thing that for 50,000 Krajina fighters, a dual-term military internship is recognised. In this way, I repeat, a great injustice would finally be corrected against those people who were the great victims of wars in the former Yugoslavia, who were not only fighting for their hearths, but were fighting for Yugoslavia, for Serbia. Unfortunately, due to the policy of double standards of Western forces, they failed. That doesn't mean they don't need to be granted their rights. They are now bitter, dissatisfied, but I believe that in talks with Minister Djordjevic and the competent services, we will come to a solution and that this future draft will go to the government in the form of a bill, that it will come to the Assembly procedure and that we will adopt within a reasonable period of time a new law on the rights of fighters, wartime disabled and civilian invalids of war and members of their families, where this provision on the recognition of the military internship will be included for all the provinces of combatants for the period 1991-1995. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28597	The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28598	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the objective of this amendment is to further encourage poverty reduction in the area of the Republic of Serbia through legal solutions. The fight against poverty is the permanent goal of this government. Instead of fighting other things, it must primarily take care to reduce poverty in the Republic of Serbia, in addition to raising it to its feet. Why I have to pay particular attention to the fight against poverty is that some who ruled before us fought poverty, but only against their own poverty. That's how it is, for example. I must tell him that my esteemed colleague Martinovic had wrongly said that he was a bodyguard with Mrs Mira Markovic or a friend Mira Markovic, I have to tell him that he was only capable of raising the ramp, but the bodyguard did not have that capacity - this distinguished gentleman got a job at the Federal Interior Ministry on 7 November 2000, where he worked until 31 December 2002. It is probably a reward for that pacistic success when the Assembly is burned, because it is its first job and after only two years and ten months it receives 771,715,092 dinars of severance. In just two years and ten months, he fought against his own poverty and won 12.5 thousand euros in severance. Not only did he fight for it, although it was strictly forbidden for the next 24 months to receive a severance payment, and that was true even for all those workers who did not receive the severance payment, and hundreds of thousands of workers were out of work and no severance money were paid, this gentleman was barely able to endure the month and a half of his employment in the "Jugoimprt" SDPR Novi Belgrade on February 10th 2003. This is how they fought against poverty, but only their poverty, and that is why today they are the owners of the return pastures, and I sincerely hope that these buildings and those pastures when the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime finishes their work will become the property of this country again and serve to exploit poverty in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28599	On Article 13th amendment is the afternoon MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28600	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, as the applicant of another amendment, as my colleagues in the former regime call it a pointless amendment, and even some means of public information called MPs pointless, I will not enter into the reasons why, but in all the amendments submitted by the SNS, we have had one tendency to help the government as much as we can arrange one area of great importance for the functioning of the state. And those who call our amendments pointless essentially wanted only one thing, that we MPs who support the Government of the Republic of Serbia do not have the right to speak and discuss in this National Assembly, that we do not have the right to talk about the government led by Aleksandar Vucic, now Mrs Ana Brnabic, what are the governments led by Boris Tadic, Mirko Cvetkovic and the rest of the team. They won't let us talk about the results, not ours or theirs. They'd like to spin a story in the absence of arguments about how there are dictatorships in the National Assembly, how we don't let them work, we let them go. From all of this, as the applicant of another amendment, I have to ask myself -- what do they want Serbia to do, did that Serbia by 2012, when we were slowly and without roads and without a national airline and without railways, citizens without jobs, ask them, or this Serbia we started to build to be a better place to live? Maybe they don't like that life, the life every citizen has the right to live off what he's doing, so he doesn't get kidnapped, he doesn't get robbed, it's not funny. I would like you to be so critical of our pointless amendments that they have one single day of work outside of politics, outside public enterprises, that at least one day they will be with counterpart Marijana Risticevic in the field when the harvest is, that at least one day they will be in a mine to see how that life is created from whom they too live. That life that the former regime intended for itself was to be kidnapped. That's why the citizens told you -- you won't fool us anymore, and you can't fool anyone anymore, and no matter how much you try, Serbia will become a better place for life, Serbia will be respected in the world, no one will play anymore with Serbia, we'll have citizens who won't be ashamed when they go somewhere outside Serbia to say that they are Serbian citizens and what kind of authority they have will also not be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28601	The 13th Amendment was submitted by Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. The word is Sonja Vlahović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28602	Thank you. Dear President, I am reporting under the amendment and one of the goals of sustainable development is the world without poverty. Had the previous government remained in Belgrade, the government of the "yellow company" the city of Belgrade would today be the city of the poor. Respected Serbian citizens and citizens, the city of Belgrade, fortunately and its authority for four years, has implemented 930km of new water and 138 new sewerage networks. Of course from the budget. More than 536 roads have been paved. In 2017 more than 66,000 people were employed. More than 1100 construction sites have been opened. A thousand people have been employed. Parks are arranged. 200 facades have been restored. Children's playgrounds were built. Open Robing House “Ikea”. The Slavi Square has been renovated. The streets have been renovated. A fountain was built on Slavija. The Museum of Contemporary Art was opened after 20 years. Senior cards with a 10% to 20% discount for all pensioners and all of them budgeted by the city of Belgrade. The city of Belgrade has taken care of 172 families of internally displaced persons from the budget. A total of 171 Roma families were taken care of in two years. Recording a small number of unemployed in the last 10 years. The project "Belgrade on Water", the railway station "Prokop", a sewerage in Palilula after 25 years, the project "To Build and Work On Yours" has set out 200 million dinars. The idea is to build it the way citizens decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28603	The 13th amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28604	Thank you, President. Corruption itself is a very dangerous thing, as you know. However, if one society is dangerous, but if it is still crumbling with the incompetence and intricacies of the ruling structures, then we have consequences that can be very terrible throughout the nation. Namely, by explaining the previous amendments, I have set a number of examples of how corruption has damaged budgets from both the republican and the lowest levels in local self-government units. But the thing gets worse if you know that realisation of planned activities, i.e. funds very small or none. In 2014, the Regional Administration planned 4.9 billion dinars for capital investments, the impact of which in 2014 was somewhere at 1.7 billion, i.e. About a third of the planned activities. In 2015 they plan 13.76 billion dinars, the realisation is 4.32 billion, less than a third. In 2016 the plan is 995 million dinars, realisation is about 13%. Now, when you add to that little realization more castings resulting from a corrupt relationship with budgets, then you actually realize how much a society has failed. That's exactly what my amendment to the Honorable Minister is about, as one symbolic reminder that such things would never happen to us in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28605	Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28606	I thank the chairman. To improve the development of infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia, it is important to complete Belgrade's highway -- the South Adriatic. The construction of Corridor 11 is of multiple importance both to citizens and to the economy and to the rapid development of local self-government. Realisation of infrastructure projects leads to economic progress and contributes to the country's even regional development. Construction of modern traffic facilities enables better integration, more intensive transport and trade, then, reducing costs, increasing business productivity by creating conditions for greater competitiveness. Areas with developed infrastructure and a network of highways, of course, are more attractive for foreign investors, then for the construction of factories, the creation of new jobs, and above all for the local population. There is no need to forget tourism, or affirmation of local self-government as desirable tourist destinations. Also, all of this encourages greater employment of arbitrary and service capacities, domestic economy, which opens up additional opportunities for local self-government to realise different development projects. The length of the E-763 highway, Belgrade - South Adriatic, is good to hear these yellow teams, also 258.6km, because they were mostly measured in millimetres and consisted of three sectors. The first sector is Belgrade - LJig, 80.3 kilometers, the second is LJig – Požega, 71.3 kilometers and Požega - Bolara 107 kilometers. This is otherwise another very important project that shows the state's full determination, i.e. the government of the Republic of Serbia, to speed up its work on infrastructure projects in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28607	National MP Dragana Barisic submitted to the 13th amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28608	I thank the president. Dear colleagues, today we are discussing amendments to the draft law on the budgetary system, and while some of our predecessors did not know that the funds that are intended for budgets are used in the right way and for the right purpose, we from the SNS not only use the funds that are intended for budget purposes, but also through our friends, as all of us, means members, allocate additional funds to ensure the best conditions for our citizens. I must point out, as I come from the Rasin County, that Mr. Bratislava Gasic's initiative and other members of the SNS have established a good relationship with our diaspora people and they are deliberately motivated to participate and contribute to the reconstruction of our destroyed country by 2012. We in Kraševec thus provided many donations, both for the health center and for other institutions and of course we will continue. On this occasion, I would like to thank all people of good faith from the diaspora, and I know that they are watching and supporting us, for everything they have done, for my city and for all of Serbia. So let's move on to new victories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28609	The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28610	Thank you. There is an end to the debate on amendments to the legislative proposals for all who were before the Budget Law and I congratulate you, you have succeeded in achieving the objective. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia will not hear a single word about the budget. Also, these three days have been a debate here that is not appropriate for this home and I apologize to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have listened to such discussions, unworthy of this home. I apologize on my own behalf, for being dragged into the same mud on several occasions, and for responding to baseless attacks, lies and nonsense, and for keeping accounts for anyone who called me in the last three days, because I have no intention of taking bills only to citizens about the municipality of Tristenik and the whole of Serbia who voted me and whose interests I represent and who I am obliged to account for. You continue to use your spins, lies and delusions to try to convince the citizens that this... .
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28611	Ambassador, this is not the final word. Please, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28612	So, as for all the amendments you've been talking about, they had no other purpose than to convince the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that they don't actually know that they live in Serbia harder than ever. You tried to convince the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the budget would not be in debt, i.e. that the state would not lend it to the new 5.5 billion euros in 2018. That Serbia needs a 360m dinar gondola, which will be paid in this year, another 840m in next year. Also, you wanted to say that Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia need for a 290m air service, that the budget of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia should be increased by 50%, that we should give the railway 14 billion, that 15 billion citizens should pay for penalties for court solutions, that 12 billion should be given to foreigners who need to start an economy in Serbia, that 60 million be specialised services and services under contract, while reducing social protection fees by 600 million dinars, while remaining in force the anti-constitutional law on the reduction of pensions and salaries and that citizens continue to be those whose backs you will implement reforms. To continue the level of separation for agriculture, in the Budgetary System Act below 5%, although the law has defined it to be a minimum of 5%. Some colleagues here ask what we want from Serbia? We want a normal and orderly society in which citizens will not be afraid to publicly state their position and opinion, in which doctors will work, not looking for ways to go to any other European country, in which farmers will have the support and ability to live from their work, a country from which young people will not leave because there is no room and support for them, pensioners who will be able to exercise their rights guaranteeing them the Constitution. Unfortunately, all these gentlemen have been taken by the citizens of Serbia in these six years. All that you promised, six budgets, this is the sixth that you adopt, has shown that everything you've talked about and what you've promised the citizens isn't true. In the end, the economic measures you have implemented show that you have made a complete mistake in economic policy. It shows because Serbian citizens continue to owe 24 billion euros, as is public debt today. It shows that GDP growth is the lowest in the last three years since 2000. It speaks of making an artificial surplus, by not paying subsidies to farmers, businesses, by not returning the VAT that has been achieved, by keeping the decision to ban employment still in force. Because of this, and because the citizens of the Republic of Serbia still have the lowest wages in the region, you actually want to take the debate away from the facts these days, and to deal with the spitting of some who six years ago or 10 ruled the Republic of Serbia. If you're talking about it, believe me, it's never been worse since 2000, at least that's what the data shows. Serbian citizens today receive less salaries than the citizens of Montenegro, the citizens of Bosnia, the citizens of Croatia, the citizens of Slovenia, and that is why no one else can be guilty, it is those who manage the Republic of Serbia today. Also, in this budget you continued to rob cities and municipalities and kobajagi you advocate local self-government by taking 10 billion dinars from them after the measure you implemented last year by the new Law on the financing of local self-government and taking nine billion dinars. So all you're talking about is actually wanting to replace the truth with the lies, that what's normal becomes abnormal, because you want that kind of society. You have brought the institutions down, you have destroyed the system, you have not fought corruption, it is bigger than ever today, although you have come on that wing to power, you continue to rob the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, enjoying the benefits it gives you, pointing the finger at others that they are guilty, not allowing the budget to be discussed and for the first time in history, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will not have the opportunity to hear the debate in detail about the Republic of Serbia's budget, because you did not want it. So, if you really have the results behind you, so take them out precisely in the data, don't resist them with your finger or yellow, or in red, or in any other, but tell them what's good for these six years that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have received from you, and you promised them, in different campaigns, except for the choices we've had every year, and we'll probably continue to just go from the election to the elections, where you will be blackmailing, pressures, threats and abuse of institutions to try to show that you have some support, but be sure that when citizens find out the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28613	Thank you. You've wasted your time. Thank you. Ms. Radet, you have 56 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28614	A colleague said this amendment was filed to strengthen the health system. That is obviously not so, because if it were, you would probably remember asking Minister Loncar whether he would get a medicine in winter, for the first 13 patients in Serbia who would have a lot of meaning, and the cure is too expensive for them to get it themselves. We, the MPs of the SRS, have submitted these thirty-one proposals, three hundred and thirty-seven amendments. We've been discussing the amendments for three days, and we've only been able to explain 14 amendments. What we also want to point out is that of these 337 amendments we will not give up and we are not giving up any amendments because we have not done this in order, but we have written them with the intention of talking to the government's representatives according to these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28615	Thank you very much. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28616	When it comes to development, the development path of the yellow tycoon Dragan Đilas was more than interesting and led him to the point of being his closest associate, Sapic, who thinks it is so politically wise and correct, that he actively sabotages the division of precisely those senior cards spoken by his colleague Vlahovic, and for the direct boss to provide him with tycoon Miroslav Miskovic. He is aware, more than aware, ladies and gentlemen, that the tycoon Dragan Gilas is absolutely not worth talking about in the next campaign for the city of Belgrade about what he was doing and how he was doing, but is equally aware that he is not worth talking about any other important political topic, so today he also said he does not want to discuss big issues such as the NATO Pact, such as Kosovo and Metohija and so on. Why? Because he's more than aware of who's going to go to that campaign with him. All will go, all those among whom there is no difference. For example, it will go to a wanted and yellow company, which he still holds in his hand today, according to the proud owner of the return pastures himself, says - Gilas still has our debt in his pocket and that debt is growing in the meantime. And, today, when tycoon Gilas says he's going to vouch for some result, just remember, he's guaranteed his previous company, so, where he brought him, he's led him to keep it in his pocket and it's only getting bigger and bigger for that long time. He is aware that Vuk Tadic, whose representatives here, will go with him and apologize for everything but what he needs. To apologize for that disaster they made themselves, to apologize for their thief, who ask what was well done here, and can't remember that they got well, for example, in the way of tractors for themselves personally. Dragan Djilas will also be remembered for being accompanied by such people as the congested Sasa Jankovic, who are gnawed in Vienna with anger and stress. If he calls only on the previous two and their views on Kosovo and Metohija, it is clear that he will be ashamed to say anything about it, but I am reading in the yellow board "Blic" that the left hand of Serbia will also support him. Speaking of Kosovo and Metohija, the leader of Serbia's left said, as they say, dead cold, that he supports political co-operation and coalition with Albin Kurti, a man who advocates great Albania. If these are examples of their common universal values, it is clear that they will not be allowed to write a single word in front of Belgrade's citizens. Will they allow them to re-destroy anything they touch or not? I think that answer is quite clear. It is not only clear to those who have always been politically blind and nothing more, nor better than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28617	The amendment was submitted to Article 13 by MP Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28618	I thank the chairman. Article 13. The bill is the same as the amendment, so Serbia's modernisation. We said several times, and we insist, to highlight the importance of modernising public administration in Serbia, because this is a way to get a more functional and quality local self-government. In addition to mentioning all the negative examples of both Smederjevske Palanka and Vračar municipality and several other municipalities in Serbia, I will take the opportunity to mention that there are good examples, and certainly the best example of the good local self-government city of Belgrade. Why is it the best example? Although this, a respected colleague of Vlahovic's just recently very taxing and comprehensively counted, I will say that at present more than a thousand construction sites are currently active in Belgrade. Belgrade's debt, Pupinov Bridge completed, 20,000 new jobs, 280km of waterway, 550km of streets and roads, four new homes of health, 260km of heat pipelines. So, the results are for one term, and the matter is much higher if it is given that the debt was, as counterpart Orlic just said, over a billion, or a billion and 200m euros. It's a terrible debt that we've managed to halve by just one term. Given the debts, it should be noted for the very end, that these debts are the result of the government of Dragan Gilas, the same Dragan Gilas, who very epochally announced a return to politics today, the same one Gilas who turned into the black town of Belgrade, and today epochally announces a grand idea that he guarantees his assets for projects in the city of Belgrade, if he is elected mayor. First, it's clear to everyone that he won't be elected mayor, it's clear to everyone, but to make the absurdity bigger, the same property he just acquired while he was in politics. I call on you to adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28619	I would like to inform you that, under Article 158, the time spent relating to the applicants of the amendments is spent, so we are continuing in the time remaining for groups and authorised proposings, or authorised in front of groups. Member of the 14th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs together of the SRS and the People's Parliament of Aleksandra Jerkov. The time left for the SRS, and that's Krasic, is two minutes and 55 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28620	Article 14 regulates something called advice. Unlike what we had before -- the commission, the council is elected by the minister, the minister's fee is determined by the minister, and the commission is elected and appointed by the government, and the compensation is determined by the government. I have to remind you that we have one saying -- more grandmothers, more squishy kids. And on Churchill's -- when you want to put something aside, don't solve it, just make it a commission. In Serbia, we have no luck with commissions and bodies, because they cannot agree like horns in a bag. What is characteristic of both the commission and the advice? It's characteristic that it's actually the advisory body of the minister. Now I don't want to go into the details, this is about the programming budget, and there's that accounting and accounting committee, etc. I'd just like to draw your attention, but today I've heard great commendations about the new prime minister's results in a few months. I was just surprised that the results were so good for the past few months, that they were so much better than the results of the previous prime minister who worked for four years. I'm a little sorry. You disabling what my Vukic did, and you praise what an unbiased person named Ana Brnabic did. It doesn't work, but come on. I ask Mr Vujovic to have the government ambushed urgently, to change his mind, to adopt all amendments to the majority. That's a lot of good amendments. Each member will get another 18 views and anyone can interpret whatever they want. Mr. Vujovicu, your prime minister, whom you criticised while he was a minister, announced digitisation. I would recommend you for capital projects and capital expenditures to provide a computer program, and there are those that are able to monitor all investments. These are very good programs, there are also on our market, retail from the procurement project, to the booking, etc., etc. Savings, whoever uses that computer program, are 15%. Even greater savings are for a computer programme that would concern the programming budget, capital investments and the Treasury. What "Informatics" did to you is no good, you know, you can't see anything. I was pleasantly surprised, I thought we weren't going to get to the Budget Law and we didn't get to the Budget Law today. There is no discussion of the amendments, the debate is over. It is important that everything is in line with the Rules of Procedure and that everything is in line with EU standards. - What would these guys say? Bravo!
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28621	Thank you, colleague Krasic. National MP Marijan Rističevic submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Žarić Kovačević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Vesna Rakonjac submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Krsto Janjušević submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Lint. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Aleksandar Seselj, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mirčić, Miljan Damjanović, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarović, Sreto Perić, Petar Jojic, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Tomislav LJubenović, Dubravko Bojić, Nikola Savić, Filip Stojanović and Marina Ristić, together Marko Đurić, Nenad Konstanović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic and National MP Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Marko Atlagic and MP Marijan Rističević submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Rakonjac submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Krsto Janjušević submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Miodrag Lint. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica submitted to the 15th Amendment together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 16th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Aleksandar Seselj, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mirčić, Miljan Damjanović, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarović, Sreto Perić, Petar Jojic, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Tomislav LJubenović, Dubravko Bojić, Nikola Savinović and Marina Ristić and National MP Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Rakonjac submitted to the 16th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Krsto Janjušević submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Miodrag Lint. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 17th amendment in the same text, the MPs together submitted: Aleksandar Seselj, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mirčić, Miljan Damjanović, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarović, Sreto Perić, Petar Jojić, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Tomislav LJubenović, Dubravko Bojić, Nikola Savić, Filip Stojanović and Marina Ristić, together Marko Đurić, Nenad Konstanović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic and National MP Aleksandra Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment in the same text, MP Marko Atlagic and MP Marijan Risticevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zarko Micin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Vesna Rakonjac submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Darko Laketić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ljiljana Malušić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Krsto Janjušević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Kovacevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Miodrag Lint. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gjorge Komlenski and Bojan Torbica. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Arsic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Blaža Knezevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milena Turk. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Dragana Barisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Orlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Dinic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by the People’s MP Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mirčić, Miljan Damjanovic, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarović, Sreto Perić, Petar Jojic, Ljiljan Mihajlović, Tomislav LJubenović, Dubravko Bojic, Nikola Savic, Filip Stojanović and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to a discussion in detail on the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERVE FOR 2018. The annual amendment to which they propose adding the preamble above Article 1 was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatović, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanić, Serbia's Filipović, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives pursuant to Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected this amendment, and rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milos Boskovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MP LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28622	Thank you, Chairman. We finally get to the budget. Consumers all the time, you've told these amendments you won't vote for yourself, let's at least talk about the budget, you've spent 600 minutes on amendments you won't vote for. As far as the budget is concerned, practically the minister, or the entire government, has made huge savings and reduced the deficit. It's a very, very good thing, except she did it the very, very wrong way. That very, very wrong way, citizens should know, it costs us a lot. When we look at GDP growth in the region from 2014 to 2016, and according to the IMF report, the IMF chose this year, done it throughout the region, so that the minister would not be very angry with us, they probably did it so maliciously for the region, they say this way – Romania over 12%, Macedonia over 10%, Hungary 9%, Albania 8%, Montenegro 7%, BiH 6%, Croatia 4%, Serbia 1.66%. This is the result of the wrong economic policy that has put its hands in the pockets of citizens and businesses, it has not saved anything in the country itself, and this has practically led to this growth and this growth is due to the huge consumption of the state. So, on a variety of credits where big money is being wasted, large subsidies are being taken, party rackets, party employment, an entire parasitic system that has been suffocating Serbia for a long, long time. So, the result of bad policy is this. This goes on this year, so when the IMF puts it out nicely, as the government keeps calling on the IMF, we'll explain this part as well. As for wages and pensions, the government says -- it will increase salaries by 8%, on average, says about 10%, about 8%. They forgot to say they took the salaries in 2014, and 10%, so we proposed that instead of this salary hike, they say, the first one was taken back. That's one item of 20 billion dinars on the revenue side, so we abolished it in this amendment of ours. On the other hand, it says – the government has increased pensions by 5%. Otherwise, inflation, for the pensioners to know, was 3% in the previous year, so when we take that inflation, it's one linear increase of 2%, where it's been taking pensions since 2014. So that retirement is somewhere around 20 billion dinars, so the DJ suggested that instead of this kind of call the increase, we return the kidnapping first. When we return the kidnapping, after we nominally increase the pensions by 3% to everyone. So, first we take back the kidnapping, and then we increase by 3% to align with inflation. That is fair and possible within this budget. Then the incompetent directors of public enterprises who need to break another 30 billion dinars this year on activated guarantees, to attract them a little bit, so we can put order in place, instead of costing them to practically solve their problems through businesses themselves, to end these crazy subsidies. Let's say, when I was a minister, we analyzed the Railway and we saw how much property is not used for the work of the Railway, or for their operational business, and that's the property with which the Railway should be restructured, introduce order, and stop giving gifts from the budget. All of this is predicted with this budget, and the abolition of these fines and the penalty that the state pays, because what happens is -- the state makes some mistake, say, doesn't pay someone back off or throw off their jobs because it's politically inadequate, so that someone's suing, and then the state's acting silly, and then they build up legal costs, court costs, tight interest, they wait for a judicial verdict, and then the state pays and collects it three times. Now, we want to put that out of the way. And these crazy subsidies and all this waste of money the state has. On the other hand, let's also tell the citizens that the deficit has been reduced by increasing all taxes. Citizens need to know that the VAT tax rate has not been increased from 18% to 20%, I hope you still remember that, so she from 8 to 10%, the deficit would be higher by 50 billion dinars this year. If there were no increase in corporate income tax, it would be 30 billion, etc. Let me remind you -- and property taxes, electricity excises, you probably forgot all that, that's 15 billion dinars. And then taking money from public enterprises, as if they had some profit on paper, and in fact they're in debt, so that the state could withdraw another 15 billion, so when we add all this together, the deficit this year would be over a billion euros, if it hadn't reached into the pockets of citizens and businesses. It's a good thing the deficit isn't, but it's the wrong way down. So we need to get order into the state. Now, that's what the government isn't prepared for. We have ministers with diplomas who clearly tell us that they are not professional in the areas for which they were elected. The result of that is this budget. No progress anywhere. People know. They look at health care, look at education, look at any activity in society – the same story, there's no order. So you don't have to listen to me. The citizens know that, they know what it's like when they visit medical facilities, they know that doctors are running from our country, they're running away from us and nurses, everyone who can look to escape. And subsidies are being hit by 40 billion dinars a year. I, as minister, abolished subsidies, introduced complete transparency, all contracts to be announced, in a month, at no cost. So these things are possible. Introducing order is possible. Gentlemen, I know you like to hold monologues. You've had a monologue here for three days. Well, let's talk a little bit about the essence now that you've tried this essence in every way to prevent us from talking about it. Now, let's talk about the point. "Enough was" suggested free textbooks for all children, we proposed an item in the budget on this, for all primary and all secondary schools. Let me tell you -- it's a support for Natalie in Serbia. Because people have small receipts and textbooks are a huge cost. This can be done. We also proposed what I suggested when I was Minister of 2013 for the 2014 budget, which was adopted in the Assembly, which says, to link the working internship, to pay back the backlog for all company workers in restructuring. Everything you promised about restructuring, what happened -- you shut down all those companies. And you keep pointing to some yellow ones, these ones, they're all your fault. You've all done the same thing together. The time will come for all of this. This budget shows that it is possible to change economic policy, that it should be turned towards domestic economy, and then we have really reduced taxes and contributions by introducing an untaxable part, or part of which is not paid for, to the minimumer, so that every minimumer will not be burdened with contributions to health. All of this is possible, more or less, within the framework of this budget. To boast of a surplus in a country that has a 1.66% growth, so that's what your IMF will tell you is deeply wrong. So we need a system that will relieve the economy, turn to innovation a little bit, and let's say, the IT industry that annually records 30% growth. All of this is what we didn't get to talk about today, because you ate 600 minutes, of which you stole a 30-40, for which the chairman will receive criminal charges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28623	Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Tatjana Macura submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Branislav Mihajlovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The First Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28624	The most important session of the year. And since we never got the final bill, that was the practice of previous authorities as well, it was the practice of the Serbian Progressive Party, although in the election for Prime Minister, then Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic promised to be the first to deliver the final bill here. Of course, like many other things, like all the things he said, he lied. So we don't have a final bill, and here we are, now we don't even have a budget debate. What is happening in the National Assembly is a coup, as MPs of the ruling majority have made it impossible to discuss the budget. It's clear that the matchmakers in the government want to hide the way they destroy... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28625	My friend Nogo, are you discussing the budget? (Srjan Nogo: Yes) I haven't heard a single word. And what did you hear? You were talking about the coup, about this, about that, and I'd like you to talk about the amendments. Budget law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28626	That's exactly what I'm saying, Mr. Arsic. So I'm introducing that you don't allow a debate, or amendments to the budget. I have a right to point that out. What do you want to hide? You want to hide from Serbian citizens real statistics and real life. But they know best that they do not live as Pink, Informer and the other media you control, because they know what their home conditions are. With this amendment, Mr. Arsic, we tried to do something good for the citizens of Serbia, because if you remember, we also held that discussion last year. Fuel excises, and you zealously every time the price of oil on the world market fell, increased excise duty and kept fuel the most expensive in Serbia of all countries in the region. And what are you going to do now that you have an agreement between Russia and the OPEC on reducing oil production and the expected rise in prices. Are you going to predict a reduction in excise duty? No, you've predicted the draft budget for identically large revenues, so you expect further burden on Serbian citizens. How does the ruling set work in Serbia? Only statistics, and everything in your life and statistics policy, so at least you represent it, works by dragging your hand into the pocket of Serbian citizens, dragging gas excises, taking electricity taxes, taking wages, taking pensions, taking every possible way, using various taxes to show that you are not in the deficit, and you are extremely in the deficit. Just before we heard an example of how economic growth has been in the same period since you've been in the government of the region. Well, one Macedonia that is much and less than Serbia and absolutely cannot be compared to Serbia, has several times, about seven times more growth. Otherwise, their total foreign debt at this point is some, say, twice as much as the debt you're predicting with this budget, because you're going to predict eight and a half billion dinars of new foreign debt this year. Macedonia owes a total of four billion euros. So, where's all this money going? We know they're going, 30 billion similar directors of public enterprises. We ask the question, when will someone be responsible for the business of these companies, because every year we give 30 billion. It is not disputed, if it is necessary for these people to stay at work, if it is necessary for the state, but if there is any responsibility, why these directors of these companies do not respond to their property and criminal justice. Why do they have so many astronomical personal incomes and profits? That's the real question, because 30 billion, you'll admit it's no small thing. That's the whole point of this budget, and that's why you don't let it be discussed, that you don't see who you're taking the money from. You take it to the citizens of Serbia and where do you spend it? Spend it on your own personal gain and personal gain.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28627	According to the Rules of Procedure, Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28628	Thank you, Your Honor. I know you can't influence the word spoken by any MP, but you are obliged to take away his word and give him a warning. Namely, it is about the dignity of the National Assembly, and my previous speaker, my esteemed colleague Nogo, said that we were submitting amendments and doing our job trying to carry out a coup and that we were matchmakers. Now, just for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, I'd like to explain. The coup is when you join the RIK on election night, with foreign ambassadors, a blow to the Serbian people is when you beat up Serbian mothers, sisters, wives, and a matchdown, while we're at it, a matchdown is when you go out to protest with Sasa Jankovic, Vuk Jeremic and try to scratch yourself for which vote in Serbia. Now, let's just explain what a coup is and what a matchmaking is in Serbia, and please don't let it happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28629	Thank you, colleague Vujadinovic, I understand, I thank you, but colleague Nogo is a hopeless case. Really, I can't help it, maybe someday and grow up. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28630	Mr. Arsic, Article 103. This was a replica. It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You were obliged to point out. Also, a member of 107 who is now personally injured by expressing insults at the expense of another MP, i.e. It's me. Indeed, I understand that the truth hurts and that you have a problem when someone tells you the real situation and your real behavior and that you can't bear it, and that's how this session is going, but I ask you to at least refrain and try to maintain the vision of good home education in addressing other fellow Members of the People's Parliament, so that we can, as-so, normally do, because this is what your behavior really, well, will give the citizens a trial about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28631	Here, I, colleague Nogo, have listened to you. I'm not nervous at all, why are you nervous? I don't understand. I didn't call you a matchmaker, a thief, as you called ministers. (Srjan Nogo: I didn't do you either.) ) The word has a National MP Dragan Vesovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28632	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You've injured Article 109. It says that the reminder is given to a people's MP who directly addresses another MP, even though he uses swearing and offensive expressions. Mr. Srdjan Nogo said "sibics", he said. Yes, he said, but he did not specifically refer to anyone, unlike the president of the current assembly, who literally said "Mr. Nogo is a hopeless case". So you directly mentioned him by his name and directly offended him. And Article 109 says that you should give yourself a reminder, and I think that would be a nice precedent that would show good will for you, because you're very in the mood to share lessons and warnings with opposition MPs and for what there is room and what is not, and now here is an unequivocally shown name and last name and offensive expression. I really don't know how you are or what you were thinking, but I'd like you to explain this "single case". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28633	Here, let me get this straight. A discussion of details. It wasn't even about the budget, I let it go. Can you call a minister a matchmaker? I don't think so, and that was an insult. Here, and I let it go. I don't know what else to let you do? I really don't know what else. Let's just keep quiet, let's physically go after the MPs, pull them by the nose, twist our ears, rip our hair out. What else do we have to do if you don't have any objections? By amendment, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28634	It's not the amendment, it's the replica of Srdjan Nog's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28635	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28636	You know, it's very hard to represent real life when you need to get 100,000 jobs in bankrupt companies, restructuring and paying interest for their failed economic policy of 750m euros a year. In four years, it's three billion euros of steam in the air. That's very hard. Secondly, to recover pensions that amounted to over 50% of the budget and bring them down to today's rate, only 32%. It is very difficult to fix a hole in the 250 billion dinar budget at one point in 2013 and start 2014. It's very difficult for a real life to be aware of the least possible way that people can survive and that you run a business and that you create new jobs. Now, that's what the SNS party was doing and it's going to keep working, and with that kind of policy, it just puts the country in a position to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28637	The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28638	Authorized, by amendment. Mr. Minister Vujovicu, oil excises, which increase year-on-year compared to 2017, increased 9.2 billion dinars, compared to 2016, 8 billion dinars. Is it possible that the government of the Republic of Serbia is not at all interested in citizens of the Republic of Serbia who pay the most expensive fuel in the region? It is a shame that the fuel costs 30.40 euros more than the Republika Srpska, compared to Macedonia, but Mr. Vujovic, you certainly do not care how common the people live and how much the item is in the budget, and for the industry in favour of the economy, fuel. You, as a man who receives $300,000 a year from the IMF and who, as people say, receives 35,000 euros from the World Bank a month from every finance minister in the region, are certainly not very interested in the position of our people, so that in this citizens should know who is running our Ministry of Finance and who has the interest that in the Ministry of Finance, this amount of excise income, in the citizens' account, is being poured out. So, I suggest to you, Minister Vujovic, that you retire nicely, have a good pension, no need to lose both your nerves here, and your health at such organised sessions, and that, finally, let these people live properly, and not collect contributions to repay the loans and interest of the IMF and the World Bank, who put you in that place.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28639	The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28640	I don't think the comments of some MPs who are insulting at the expense of ministers deserve our attention, and as such at all, I'll pretend I haven't heard them. When it comes to the price of different energy sources in the Republic of Serbia, above all, it is mostly in relation to the region and the whole of Europe among the most favourable when it comes to electricity prices, it is the lowest in all Europe, namely in the region without any dilemma. When it comes to fuel prices, i.e. oil and derivatives, it is somewhere on the average level in the region, and far above prices in most parts of Europe. I think it is really pointless to comment on the allegations when one of the MPs chooses the only two countries in Europe that have a lower price of fuel than Serbia, which is Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, in which there is no excise policy, there is neither on the other hand nor social policy, because they do not have the funds in the budget, and to draw any conclusion from that. So, absolutely incorrect data is that Serbia has a high fuel price. It is on average in the region, and this region has one of the lowest fuel prices compared to the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28641	The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28642	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just saying to Mr. Minister Antic, I'm telling you so much about inaccuracies when we talk about the price for two countries that it's cheaper. I'll tell you that the average salary in Macedonia is 372 euros, and in Serbia, 396, you certainly know what the price of a liter of diesel is in Macedonia and how much is in Serbia. Whether they have excise policy or not, they say how much growth they have, we have heard this before from counterpart Radulovic, how much growth Serbia has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28643	The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28644	I really respect all the MPs, but it's really impossible to argue with arguments that, I repeat, are completely pointless. What does the price of oil and oil derivatives have to do with what the average profit in that country is? It is simply a matter of stock exchanges, products having a world price and small differences resulting from a certain excise policy, i.e. tax policy within each country, including customs policy. Serbia, I repeat, has an average price of oil derivatives at regional level and these are very simple data. You can go out to the Association of Oil Companies of Serbia and see it very precisely. When it comes to motor gasoline, it's even below average. When it comes to diesel, it's a little bit above it, but then, when all the derivatives are concerned, the average is somewhere on the regional level.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28645	By amendment, MP Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28646	Indeed, I don't know how you run that statistics, but Serbian citizens know well when they look at their wallets and their home budget. It is not disputed that the same purchase price is in both Serbia and other countries, because it is a stock exchange, but in the end, what citizens pay depends on excise duties, and Serbian excise duties are the most convincing excise duties. We're not Germans and French and we don't have their standard of paying that price of fuel. But it's not just the fuel here, everything else is also the same problem. What is this new policy that's different from the previous one? The previous authorities have likewise stimulated foreign investors and you are stimulating foreign investors. And previous governments have listened to stabilisation, liberalisation, IMF, World Bank, you do the same. And they had foreign experts, and you have foreign experts. There was Dinkic, there was SPS, there were many DS staff, G-17 and other DOS parties, and today you have a convincingly large number of DOS personnel, DS, coalition partner of the SPS Rasim Ljajic. So what's the difference between time, I don't know, Boris Tadic today? Same policy and 80% of the same personnel that ran into the SNS. Here people who weren't at that time in power know very well that that's how the SNS got filled and who are these people who are making these places right now. There is no difference from 2000 in Serbia to today. Identical politics. The World Bank, the IMF, listens to Brussels and Washington and leads Serbia to ruin. Because the policy since 2000 has cost us several hundred thousand people to this day. The economy has been destroyed. You just mentioned company workers who didn't get paid. Why is there no entry for 82,500 of them who have sued the state of Serbia, have executive verdicts? How are these people going to get what they've earned, what does it belong to them? She didn't mean for the government to see it in the budget, she thought about all the other things. Where's that concern for people and citizens? How do you charge this budget? It is only being filled thanks to citizens and thanks to domestic businessmen. You're running politics against them right now. This is exactly the tragedy of Serbia, and there is no future for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28647	Right on the line, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28648	Thank you, Chairman. (Srjan Nogo: On what basis? ) The mention of the party, sir. Next time take a look at how you're going to comment. First of all, if we are talking about excise duties, which are planned for the 2018 budget, which is more consumption, more excise duties will also be paid into the budget. We have more spending because we have an increase in wages and pensions, in general giving and income in the budget. So that's one of the reasons why it's so designed. The data from IMF growth, I will remind you, for the past and the previous year, that the forecast of the Fiscal Council was also in the same part because it rewritten the IMF forecasts, and it happened to have been projected 1.8% of the growth in general in business activities in the Republic of Serbia, which was 2.7%. When we asked right on the Finance Committee -- on what basis you planned it, they say -- based on the surveys we conducted. The IMF's projections are therefore not all-powerful either. And what you want to show here is that Serbia is not going the way it should go, it just doesn't stand. If that were the case with the IMF, then they would show up in 2012. The previous government would accept it and solve all the problems, but should not accept at all the World Bank, nor the IMF, because it was afraid that it could not go further into debt that only personally had the wealth, exactly the one Gilas, for whom you as Dvori actually signed consent when you went to the elections in 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28649	Right on line, MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28650	Thank you. In view of the mention of the SPS, it is logical that, according to some of the comments raised by the MP from the parliamentary group, we should determine. Let's make some distinction that no one can doubt. What has it been since 2000, until 2012, when it comes to financial policy, when it comes to the economy, when it comes to the economy in Serbia? The reminders for the sake of the SPS and its MPs in the Assembly in 2001 were against the vote of the Privatisation Act. What are the consequences of the Privatisation Act that was adopted in 2001? The consequences that no one can question, the 100,000 employees on the streets, companies pushed into a commercial death, numerous tycoons, numerous called businessmen who sucked literally everything they could suck out of the factory, out of the hall, left a spooky empty halls and drives, went where, without any coincidences, without any consequences, without any criminal proceedings. Not to count just how many broken privatisations are, how many privatizations that aren't even controlled, how many privatisations that contain elementary crime with the consequences that citizens are feeling today. Is it necessary to remind what happened to the Veterinary Institute, what happened to the National Savings, what happened to "Sartid" in that period, what happened to "Yugormedia", what happened to "Mobtel", what happened to the concession for the Horgos-Požega highway, what happened to various ceramic production companies, etc?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28651	You're bringing the end, my colleague Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28652	I'm sorry, just one more sentence. All that is attributed to us and to the ruling majority was done by those who are now criticizing us. That's the only reason I had to react this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28653	Thank you. The word has a People's MP Ivan Kostic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28654	As far as the SPS is concerned, I wouldn't comment on these allegations, since they've been in power for the past 70 years. You inherited the property of the Central Committee and with this property you have and you finance both committees and members and you employ people. And what is your condition is, it is best to look at "Srbigas" what is happening to you and how you use this company. As far as election night is concerned, I only want to remind here that during election night 2016, a settlement in Belgrade was torn down, that the kidnapped people by the largest criminals in the country and that this practice is already several electoral processes, from small local communities to republican elections. The Dvori movement was tried that night to be brought down under the census with one vote and less than one vote. And that's what the whole people saw. That's why we got so much support from the people, because people saw that this is the senselessness that RIK was doing, headed by Miladin Kovacevic, the largest statistic manipulator in the Republic of Serbia. Also, as far as Dragan Gilas is concerned, the Serbian Dveri movement has nothing to do with Dragan Gilas, but you have here for two days and you raise him up by treating him as your main opponent, the man who has worked with you all these years, who along with Miki Rakic and formed your party, who together in political and business dealings with your parties, your godfathers, your friends, your president's relatives. It is a political figure that has been licked and that has no perspective at all that will ever come to power and the Davery is against such and fighting. God forbid all those who are part of such an elite political, pseudoelyte end up in prison. The only pure political option in Serbia was handed over to the Dvori who did not come to the Assembly with the help of either the Russian or the US ambassador, but with the help of the ordinary people we represent here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28655	The word has a People's MP Milorad Mijatovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28656	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thought I'd never have to answer to the Dverry MP's group again. A month ago, I said what I thought of them. I won't do it again, but I still have to take this. I have to take this for the citizens of Serbia. It's just amazing how the results of this ruling position are misrepresented. No one's going to talk, and I'm talking about the budget here, that we have a surplus, that we've singled out 128 billion for public investment. That's never been set aside here in this country, that we end up in Corridor 10, that we end up in Corridor 11, that we have highways, that we have surpluses in the balance of payments, that we have results. Looks like the results are the ones that bother you the most. Success bothers. In Serbia, success bothers. You know the SDPS was in power in the previous period. We are in power and now, and we will always be if we advocate European integration, for financial consolidation, for a better life. You didn't open any chapters. We have opened 12 chapters, and you say we are not for the EU. Why do not our fellow MPs, who speak of many things, say yes, we have opened 12 chapters. The Social Democratic Party is a party that is European-oriented, which is dedicated to a better life for citizens, who insists on living from what is earned. That's exactly what we're showing right now. So please don't take SDPS. She never talks about other parties, she won't say anything ugly, but be assured we'll respect everything that's been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28657	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has his word, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28658	Mr Arsic, Article 104 points to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, as Article 104 prescribes the right to a replica by a MP who is mentioned, or his group of MPs, Please, Mr. Jovanovic, a member of 106 tells you not to throw while the other MP speaks, so I also point to that violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Nedjo Jovanovic: It's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's a replica.]] So article 104 states when someone can get a right to a replica. It can be given after a direct exposure that is interpreted as an insult to the parliamentary group, and Mr. Mijatovic appeared after several further exhibitions and was completely not mentioned by Mr. Mijatovic. I know that SDPS is constantly in power and that this is the same policy from 2000 to today, and I hope that in the next government when... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28659	No breach of the Rules of Procedure has been done. You only asked to respond to my colleague, Mijatovic, through the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I won't let you do that. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28660	Thank you, Chairman. I'll tell you, Mr. Chairman, if we're going to start by saying that no ambassador has brought any parties and MPs into parliament here, then why was it necessary to join RIK that election night, to turn the hands of women, to physically attack the members of the RIK, and why was it necessary to hold common mittins and thus come to the situation that, after a few years here in parliament, even a physical attack and president of the National Assembly? What's this about? Why, then, in 2012, when the elections were held, at the best locations in the city of Belgrade were leased billboards of the same parties that are trying to show up here today as some big parties that have a large number of voters behind them? I ask you, Mr. Chairman, when will the time come to clean up who works for whom and what money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28661	Thank you. We continue to work on the amendments. (Nedjo Jovanovic: Replica. I'm in the system. ) The word has the People's MP Neđo Jovanovic, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28662	I thank you, Chairman. I believe that every MP has one obligation, which is to learn the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. It's obvious that someone doesn't know the Rules of Procedure, because I answered the line right after the SPS was mentioned, in an extremely negative context. I would like to thank the MP from the Dvori parliamentary group for pointing to the longevity of the SPS. We are exactly 27 years old, and we are proud of the 70 years of heritage and pride in what is behind us. Unlike the Dveri MP group, who has nothing to look at when looking back or perhaps having, perhaps having violence, may have an attempt to lynch the RIK, may have physical objections to the chairman of the Administrative Committee, so perhaps there are manifestations of behaviours that the MPs of the SPS have never been prone to or will ever be prone to. So that's the difference between us and those who impute what they're imputing to us. On the other hand, the situation in "Srbigas" is mentioned. I don't know why, if you take the last indicator from "Srbigas", "Srbigas" absolutely doesn't have a single dinar of unsettled liabilities when it comes to gas deliveries. The same “Srbigas” was once a milk cow from which everyone who was able to suck out of it, because no one treated the company responsibly and committed to paying their obligations, i.e. by pacifying his obligations. So you should be honest. To be moral to certain facts that are what they are and cannot be doubted. As far as the SPS is concerned, we are fine, for our future, no one else needs to worry, but I am not sure about the future of the Devere parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28663	Thank you. We're moving on. (Ivan Kostic: Replica. You can't do it all day. (Ivan Kostic: They mentioned the Dvori twice. You also told each other what you had and ended it. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Mihajlovski and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Maja Vidinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Gordana Comic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Ciric submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Radoslav Milojic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dejan Nikolic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miroslav Aleksic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 1a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 1a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 1a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 1a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 1a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 1a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 1a was submitted by MP Tatjana Macura. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 1a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 1a was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 1a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of article 1a was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs together Aleksandar Seselj, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mirčić, Miljan Damjanović, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarović, Sreto Perić, Petar Jović, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Tomislav LJubenović, Dubravko Bojić, Nikola Savinović, Filip Stojanović and Marina Ristić together and together Marko Djurić, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28664	Thank you, Chairman. Here we are practically harmonising with Article 1. in which we repeat the key argument that the way the government has been saving in Article 1 is completely wrong, that it has dragged its hand into the pockets of citizens and businesses and thus reduced the deficit. The deficit reduction is a good thing, but this is the wrong way and it has cost us very little economic growth. So, from 2014 to 2016, the IMF compared the growth of gross social product throughout the region. Serbia has 1.66 and is far at the beginning of the list. For example, Kosovo as part of Serbia has a 9% growth. So this policy that the government is conducting is basically reflected in the economic growth of the government's tax increase, the withdrawal of wages and pensions. We have proposed a completely different concept of the budget, which is facing the domestic economy. First, the introduction of order. We have about 42 billion dinars in our budget of dumped subsidies of different species. We think it's the wrong model to stimulate the economy. On the other hand, 30 billion dinars going towards the activation of guarantees to incompetent directors of public enterprises. What does this mean practically? Well, when the state always jumps in there to patch up all the holes that incompetent management makes, then they have no reason to behave responsibly, because in the end someone else will always pay. We have to break up with this practice. That's what I did when I was Minister of Industry. These things could not have been in the budget, which I proposed, which was adopted by the Assembly, these items were not. Then we have 18 billion dinars on various fines and penalties. Practically, the state should go to meet these things, address these issues, not allow courts to judge her and make the costs huge. So, what did we suggest instead of all these things of this, practically, Javiluka we have? When it's in the country and we don't have this kind of thing, we can do a lot of things. Amongst other things, we can link up the work internship and return the backlogs for all employees in all social enterprises, in restructuring, and in bankruptcy. So this is exactly what I suggested and it was in the 2014 budget, it was abolished when I resigned. Citizens need to know that. We would have already done that if that budget had remained in force, had it not been changed, and then we ended up with huge losses on all these companies, and eventually the government started closing down all these companies. Then we have an increase in the health budget by 10 billion dinars, very important there is no money for basic needs, then, creation... The capital of the Serbian industry and it was in the 2014 budget according to my proposal -- four billion dinars, then free textbooks for all children in primary and secondary schools. So, paying off the war logs for the reservers, this is also an important item. So, not to wait for judgments, but to solve this in advance, and the most important part of discharging the economy is to reduce the contribution and to introduce one part that is not paid for, so that minimals have no contribution to health and to move slowly from this Bizmark model to Beverly's health funding model. There's money in the budget, it's just spent on things that shouldn't be, there's no order, and it's not spent where the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are. We have turned this budget completely around and shown that it is possible to have a responsible budget and do things that are in the interests of citizens and businesses, not privileged party personnel that spend millions and billions of dinars each year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28665	Thank you. National MP Vladimir Djuric submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Milos Boskovic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? National MP Sasa Radulovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28666	Thank you. I see that this talk that lasted three days has been silenced now. The point I'm talking about here is that this is a completely wrong budget, it's good that the deficit is reduced, but in a completely wrong way. It costs us very little GDP growth. The IMF published data from 2014 to 2016. It is clear that Serbia has a 1.66% growth. Even in Kosovo, growth is 9%, Romania 12%, Montenegro 7%. This shows that this is a very, very bad public policy. It saves on the citizens, on the economy. All taxes have been increased, and on the other hand there is a public sector-wide reporting. The incompetent party personnel running public enterprises cost us billions of dinars every year, and that is practically why we have such a bad budget and such a bad situation throughout the economy and why citizens live very badly. Practically, we've had three days of debates about nothing. Now we've reached the budget. Looks like the cat ate his tongue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28667	The word has a minister, Mr Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28668	I thought I'd wait for you to say one whole list of things that you mentioned earlier in the discussion in principle so I could offer MPs and citizens an explanation and some real information that's important for understanding all these processes, but since you're so engaged in those statements, I have to say that I'm going to have to answer now and try to put some of the things in place. So the more mentioned analysis of that growth is 1.66% is a specific period of three years in which one year with a minus 1.8%, which among other things was the result of catastrophic floods, where the month in which I became finance minister began to quarter, where growth was minus 3.7%, since the economy was in stalemate, energy production was practically collapsed because the main fields from which coal, communication in Serbia and agricultural production were being harvested were severely negatively damaged, and by quarterly data it was the lowest month in our 15-year history. From then on, the rate of economic growth is improving and interpreting something based on the moving average you found in one study and saying that we have a growth rate of 1.66% when we have the growth rate for the last two years of 2.4%, roughly, on average, and we expect that the rate will be closer to 3% next year and be 3.5% long-term, is at least irrelevant. So if you're calculating the speed we've come out of that crisis, that's the relevant information. You're people you know enough. You don't have to be economists to know that the speed of getting out of the crisis here is the right measure, not the level. What's important is whether we keep coming out of the crisis. The second is important – whether this is a slowdown in the rate of recession or the measure of exogenous factors. We have a very serious team of people analyzed it and we claim it's the result of exogenous factors. So it's slowed down the growth rate, whether it's 2% or 2.2%. (Sasa Radulovic: Time. I'll continue later. At least give me a sentence to finish. So it's completely irrelevant. The important thing is that the facts correspond to the the thesis that you want to show, the analysis to be correct. Thank you very much. I'll continue later.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28669	My colleague Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28670	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, you certainly heard the attempt by fellow Radulovic to insult the minister. He used the term – the cat ate the tongue, etc. This belongs to personal jargons. Also in accordance with Article 106. this is a debate on details not in principle. So he talked about everything, about the budget, about spending, about textbooks, etc. And as he spends here you see there, this culture, shows, when he hired his 40 party members to the ministry, pumped huge amounts of money and today he violates the dignity of the National Assembly, speaks out of order, and if he has spent hundreds of thousands of dinars on Ivan Ninić, Miroslav Malenović, and today insults the dignity of the National Assembly, behold, there is this Dusan Pavlovic, the new Ćićolina. He was spent on by 113,000 dinars. I know he's hurt the dignity of the National Assembly, I don't know if this was the fee for making porn films or if this is the way he was pumping out the money. I know the Americans had a Dillinger, we seem to have got a shoveler. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28671	Based on what colleague Radulovic? (Saša Radulovic: Replica. To whom? (Saša Radulovic: Minister, he misread the views. You have no right to a replica. The minister only answered your questions, at no point did he offend you, be sure. (Saša Radulovic: I understand your democracy, give me the amendment. ) The People's MP Tatjana Macura submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. (Sasa Radulovic: I asked for an amendment. ) Here's the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28672	Thank you. This is amazing how this number grows from the first 22 to the 28 to the 40, that lie to the lie. Dear Ministers, floods have hit the whole region, some countries more, some less. These numbers were kicked out by the IMF, I didn't throw them out. We didn't move, so we collected these numbers in this way. Let me tell you, what's the point of everything is that the state is saving, or taking from the citizens and the economy, it's doing nothing on itself, that's the point. You have the wrong model of deficit reduction. The fact is that it is reduced, but in the wrong way and as a result, it is a small economic growth. And let me remind you this year, growth is very small, 1.1% in the first quarter, 1.3% in the second quarter, flash estimates, 2% in the third quarter. By the end of the year, if we push 2%, it'll be an extraordinary success. Therefore, the consequence of this economic policy is extremely low growth and the fact is, the numbers I quoted you in the budget clearly tell you that you have irresponsibility in the state. You can't handle it, I know it. It should be handled by ministers who are incapable of handling it. We practically have one of those same budgets that's just being pushed year after year. You don't have a program budget, you don't measure the quality. We have a problem with all the projects, money is being spent on all sides, the consequences are finally being felt by the citizens. So we stick to numbers. They're very accurate, very exact, the IMF repeats them, and the fact that we're constantly pulling on someone else and something else can't do that. Finally, the responsibility tells you, you should stand behind the results, the result tells you, from 2014 to 2016 you have a 1.66% growth, Bosnia and Herzegovina has a growth of 6.67%, Croatia has a growth of 4.1%. I didn't make these numbers. This is the result of economic policy. You have the wrong economic policy facing foreign investors, not domestic economy. That's why Serbia's going so badly. The government's irresponsibility, obviously you can't do it, you're looking at how to preserve macroeconomic stability. Ministers don't do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28673	The word has been made by Minister Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28674	Mr. Radulovic, the figures are like this, your average is down to 1.8% in 2014, plus 0.8% in 2015 and plus 2.8% in 2016. The average is the least relevant thing. The rate of exit from the crisis is the relevant thing. If you don't believe me, ask any economist who has an education to explain it to you. So that's an increase in rate, if you look at quarterly, it's even bigger. Secondly, your binding of the effects of measures and results is painfully unsupervised and painfully wrong. I'll tell you one thing very important, which you've called twice in your written statements about what happened, since you'll interrupt me again I'll tell you next. The VAT rate increased from 18% to 20% in 2012. Date of entry into force on 1 January 2013, this higher rate. While you were a minister. (Sasa Radulovic: I was not a minister then. ) Check the books, please. You were the minister on January 1st when the measure was taken, you were the minister. (Sasa Radulovic: That is not true. How is it not true? Oh, my God, man, how is that not true? The measure was passed in October 2012, you were a minister. (Saša Radulovic: I wasn't even at the ministry. I was trying to reach you as a consultant, you were in the ministry, if you weren't a minister, that's another thing. You've been to the Ministry. So, like this, that rate was changed when you were the minister. The analysis shows that VAT revenues increased by 30 billion in 2013 and the deficit increased by 50 billion. Your thesis that VAT helped reduce deficits is completely incorrect, illogical and unsustainable. The deficit has decreased, not by increasing the rate but by increasing the charge and better discipline, and this is a significant difference, and it has only happened since September 2014. So, I respect the facts, and I respect the analysis even more, which is based on facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28675	By amendment, MP Sasa Radulovic. (Saša Radulovic: Replica. You have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28676	Minister, you were wrong, I entered the government on 2 September 2013 and left in January 2014, so I wouldn't go back to it. Answer one simple question: if VAT rates were 18% and 8%, how much less would they have income from VAT this year? Would that mean that the deficit would only be higher by 50 billion dinars? The second question is, if you hadn't increased your electricity excises, which are taken annually from citizens of some 15 billion dinars, would the deficit this year be 15 billion dinars higher? If there wasn't an increase in corporate income tax, did the revenues you have in your budget, were they lower by 30 billion? We'd have a deficit in that amount. This is a very simple mathematics minister. Very simple. So if the rates were where they were, they'd have a deficit, because the rates are increased that means, the hand is dragged into the pockets of the citizens and the economy. There's no way you can avoid this. There isn't. It's very simple, when you look at numbers, it's as simple as beans. So, no rhetoric, no story, all countries have problems, all countries have problems to face, wrong economic policy leads to extremely low growth rates, because you're not saving anywhere. A huge tax burden, riding in the state, huge losses, activated guarantees due to incompetent party personnel. You can't solve that, you're in the finance ministry, that's what the government should solve, however, not solve.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28677	The word has Minister Vujovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28678	So what you're saying really couldn't be understood without a more detailed explanation. I told you that based on the actual situation, we know that the increase in VAT from 18% to 20% increased revenues by 30 billion. After that, there was an increased effort to charge VAT at the same rate. For the citizens to understand, those who paid no one took their money anymore. If someone's got their hand in their pocket, it's the ones who haven't paid VAT by then. So, the rate hasn't changed, the one who's been doing lawwork, no one's ever charged him any more. It's not amazing. It's true. Listen carefully to what I'm saying, I've been listening to you. So if the rate hadn't changed, all those who paid VAT didn't have a gray economy, paid VAT on all transactions, paid at the input, paid on their products, refused, the credit they got on the input. They haven't changed anything. The increase in VAT in 2014 was due to the fact that those who had not paid VAT by then or who were in the gray economy or who did not account well for VAT, they paid more. Just the ones, not the ones who paid for the office. That's very important. As those who need a form, which applies 12 items of VAT application to do so now with 78 items, are complaining. Only those who disobeyed the law. Secondly, very important, what you're saying, about the model of economic policy and everything else, I'd like to ask you to publish a book we're doing according to the standard of recognised models and we've reduced the deficit by reducing the irrational expenditures above all. So, we had some so-called. long-term expenditures, they're government promises to do some things. We cut the cost of the debt, we get the most important item in all of it,... (Sasa Radulovic: Time. (President: Bringing the end. () Slowly, let me tell you, the deficit is reduced, if you want to know. It was reduced by the decrease in the difference between the primary deficit and the total deficit from 3.8% per hour, will be less than 3% this year. So we saved 2% on interest. We've cut all costs. We reduced, the guarantees that someone mentioned here, came from the period 2008, 2014, when the hand and hat shared guarantees without any resonance and which were then activated.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28679	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has been made by MP Srdjan Nogo, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28680	Please, Mr. Minister, what you said is a public deception. So, who pays the VAT? The value added tax is a tax on consumption and it flows into a chain to the end-user and the burden falls on citizens, those who are end-users. They are, then, taxpayers in that case. And, because they were forced to spend more of their money, that's why there was this increase in your budget, but that's why there was a problem in each individual's home budget. Don't let us twist the facts here. You, I'm sure, know that well. What you're saying isn't absolutely true. So, I think you have tried to harshly deceive the MPs and the public of Serbia, and it is clear that you have reduced the deficit in the budget. By tightening not the belt of the state, but by tightening the belt of the citizens and the economy, and no state has escaped from the negative economic flows, from the crisis in this way. This is the model by which the IMF and the World Bank must kill national economies, and we urgently need to reject it and do counter what the IMF and the World Bank tell us to do for the benefit of citizens and states.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28681	The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28682	At that level of phrase, it's really not possible to analyze anything. We're talking budget here. You can say that at a political rally. I'm just telling you this, if citizens pay at the end of everything and the debts we inherited, so let me tell you something, in 2014, when we started the programme, we had a debt that was in this parliament, a deficit that was considered in parliament, of 225 billion. Next year was 191 billion, then 122. We've been very difficult and painfully reducing all the elements to reduce the deficit, so this year plus 50 is expected at the end of the year. So we went from hole, from 225 billion to plus 50, step by step. Leave the floscules around the fund or not the fund. They're here to impose financial discipline on us, and we need ourselves to reduce the burden of these debts. That's what we did, by reducing the next year by 16 billion interest costs. That's what the people pay, and they don't have to pay. So we saved the people 16 billion. You look and find some other savings that are so big that we've lost nothing. We haven't cut anything, we're just paying cheaper what we get to fund the development and future of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28683	I thank the ministers. The word has been made by MP Sasa Radulovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28684	Thank you. What the minister said, of course, on a professional basis, and not at any other level, can stand, as reportedly increased VAT revenues are only from a better charge. Every citizen who pays VAT for any product, when his rate is 18% less, when his rate is 20% more. So, I think the minister, when he's looking after the video feed here, will be a little wrong to say these words he said. Anyway, let's go back to this principle of savings. No one argues that the deficit should have been reduced. Nobody slows down. Of course it had to be reduced, you cut it the wrong way. And yes, there are different ways to do that, we've just shown it by this draft budget that we've submitted, which shows how it's necessary to do that. I did this as Minister in 2013, the 2014 budget shows exactly that. It is possible to connect people's work experience, and to introduce order into public enterprises through ID cards. It's all possible, but it's not possible to keep the party, the parasitic system, as the government did, and on the other hand, to tell citizens that some miracle has reduced the deficit. Of course, it's good that the movements on the financial market are such that the government can be in charge now at smaller interest rates, to pay back some of these old debts. But the bottom line is this, there's another way. This isn't a good way to do it. It costs us and costs us, ruthlessly, when we look at these items of GDP growth, it clearly tells us where the problem is. You have the wrong economic policy. The government is not saving on itself, in the state, but saving on citizens and businesses. She's got her hands deep in our pockets.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28685	By amendment, MP Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28686	To end this debate, just to thank Minister Vujovic, I will quote a sentence he said, which is in fact a recognition and a real picture of the whole policy. I quote Mr. Minister: "Of course the people end up paying for everything." You're absolutely right. And yes, your policy ultimately pays the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28687	The People's MP Tatjana Macura submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Ivan Kostic, Dragan Vesović, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28688	I thank the chairman. The idea, in general, of submitting amendments, of the group's focus on sustainable development objectives, is that Serbia's budget should contain all those elements relating to 17 objectives, starting from poverty reduction, to sustainable use of natural resources, to sustainable social policy. But the most important part, that the implementation of all these goals, can't be unless we have sustainable finances. The sustainability of the finance is exactly the struggle of the Serbian government, which has shown over the past three years that certain measures must be implemented, in order to really have as much expenditure as we have. What was most difficult, which is for those who have tried to show by different amendments so far that the Serbian government has the wrong concept, have just remained in debt to this Serbia when we talk about companies in bankruptcy, when we talk about 100,000 employees who have lost their jobs, precisely because some of the irresponsible ones by 2012 took 22 million and 754 thousand from the budget, because they represented 16 companies as bankruptcy managers. Now, if they were to speak so realistically in life, they should first return such a thing to the budget, show by example that they really want something good to this country and try to show that this concept of sustainability of public finances should be given on their own personal case. That is why, Mr. Minister, I think it is necessary to answer questions like this, precisely because Serbian citizens need to know, and they should not forget, that something like this should no longer appear. That is why we must constantly discuss the objectives of sustainable development and become an integral part of the Republic of Serbia's budget, because this is the future for the next 12 years. Agenda 20, 30 means our future and that future we need to talk about every day here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28689	The amendment proposing the addition of Article 2a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 2a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 2a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 2a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 2a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 2a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 2a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 2a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 2a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 2a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, proposed by the addition of Article 2a, was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Ivan Kostic, Dragan Vesovic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28690	Thank you. This is about new commitments that the state of Serbia is taking, so we have some 2.4 billion US dollars taken from China's Export-Import Bank for various projects. What's the problem with this? It's not a problem, of course, China. We have nothing against China or any other country in this world. However, these import, or import-export banks serve to support domestic economy, in this case the Chinese economy. Let's say, when the Chinese build you a bridge, and they come here to do it, they bring along some pâtés from China. You know why? Because that helps your GDP. Serbia is taking huge loans to build infrastructure, which then assist other countries' GDP, is a deeply wrong policy. We have examples of, say, similar behavior, like. From LJg to Preljina this highway. We have an Azerbaijani firm, we're practically crediting, and the Azerbaijani firm is working, these two jobs are connected. Then, for example, they import oil without paying customs duties, excise duties, and sell to our customs and excise companies. Well, let's say, they get to buy a "Such" separation, take out a tight stone aggregate, and make the price three times the market price. So this kind of corrupt deal, which is based on these basics, is deeply wrong and has a very bad impact on GDP. To be in charge, to take big money for infrastructure, and then to feed someone else's GDP is very wrong. The older citizens will surely remember how the former Yugoslavia financed capital projects similarly, for example, in Africa, Asia, etc., and thus fostered domestic economy. We, through these arrangements, are actually becoming a banana state. What we need, that's what we suggested, that these loans be withdrawn, that when we build infrastructure, it always goes towards domestic economy. The whole budget has this wrong concept. We need to rely on it to support our domestic economy. Let me repeat, $2.4 billion per job that is in no way described in the budget itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28691	The word has a minister, Mr Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28692	As we said in the general debate, these loans are implemented as part of a memorandum that has the importance of a law signed in 2009. Now it's just using the space that's been created. In Article 3b, future things are usually written. I asked, after a debate in principle, why colleagues put it into the budget this year, after most of these things appeared, as people say, on the radar only before the end of the year. The answer was because the opportunity was for these agreements to be signed in Budapest, to take advantage of the opportunity for the administrative side to begin. When they are realised, when they are ratified, they will be ratified with full details and brought to this parliament and you will have the opportunity to discuss, as far as that goes. As far as the total debt is concerned, I just want to add, the dynamics that will affect the debt will be the result of good planning and, more importantly, raising the capacity of the economy and after that, the cost of debt service. I just want to add two sentences to the misinformation that's being talked about the debt. The debt hasn't grown 10 billion since the reforms began. The relevant date since the reforms began is probably the end of 2014, since the programme we have brought and the fund supported it, very important, brought, agreed in November and signed in February, 20 February 2015. On 1 January 2014, the debt level was 22 billion 761m euros, total, converted to euro. Before we began this debate, on November 30, when we concluded our materials, the figure entered into the budget from October 31st, a month earlier, and the debt situation was 23 billion 422 in euro. The debt increase during the reform is only 661m euros. Only 661m euros in three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28693	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28694	That's what we less hold hands in people's pockets, that we've secured a debt reduction. Secondly, calculated as dinars, the increase is 42 billion dinars, and converted into dollars, look wonders, we even have a decrease.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28695	Thank you, Minister. According to the amendment, Sasa Radulovic, the People's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28696	Thank you. To inform the minister, when he repays some debt, it puts its hand in the pocket of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. If he'd given it back to the state's savings, that would have been one thing. If he gets it back by having big taxes, etc., then it's something else. Once again, our problem with this is that we need to approve something for the budget without knowing anything about this loan. It's a huge amount of $2.4 billion. I've described here why it's harmful to get out of credit, which we take from foreign countries, practically give jobs to their companies and help their GDP. I have nothing against any country in this world, but such loans should not be taken. Yugoslavia used this during the 1960s and 1970s. When we take credit and build infrastructure, that's what our companies should do and the foreign part should be minimal. With us, we have a reverse situation, and the kamak is taken by foreign companies, and our construction industry is left with crumbs. It's the wrong policy to change, and that's exactly what we've proposed with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28697	Right to replication, Minister Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28698	Let me tell you, that's Article 3b. The budget in the narrow sense of that word, as the MPs and the people interpret it, is what is in Article 8, not in Article 3b. Article 3b is the borrowing plan. Until it's ratified, until it's boarded, it won't be able to go into realisation. Therefore, you will have the opportunity to express your opinion when these projects are ready to present themselves to Parliament and discuss them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28699	By amendment, MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28700	Thank you, I really don't need explanations. What is crucial is that there can't be something in the law that we're going to vote for without having a detailed explanation. It's a practice that needs to be interrupted. It was a practice before, so you went on with it, I really don't care. What the MPs here approve should have their reasons. These 2.4 billion have no reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28701	Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28702	I don't need to explain it to you, you probably know it on your own. We each year have a list of potential loans that is greater than the need for funding. In order for us to even have a loan, when it comes to having a document ready, that it is evaluated and that parliament needs to ratify it, in order to propose it at all, we have to have it in the annual borrowing plan. Otherwise, you could say that the president or that you as MPs take him off the agenda, because he simply didn't meet the basic requirement, which is to be in the borrowing plan. So I'm just saying, if he's not in there, it couldn't happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28703	By amendment, MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28704	That's exactly what I'm saying, Minister, is that it shouldn't happen. The moment there's enough data, then at that point you can also submit budget rebalances and file detailed documentation. So in a way like this, you'd have to know for yourself, if you were looking for something in advance, with that practice you should break up. It's been before, of course, for many years, but we don't want to do the same things, the wrong things, and we just say -- that's how it's always been, and that's how we're gonna keep doing it. This is a practice that needs to be interrupted.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28705	The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28706	Basically, I can agree with you, we've already broken up that practice. In 2014, the last time, by the force of events that were out of our control, we had rebalancing, real rebalancing, these others are so-called. Rebalances which do not touch Article 8. So, in 2014, the planned deficit was 182 billion, and by rebalancing 225. In all the following years, it was either the same or less than planned, so 191, 122 billion, plus 50 billion, instead of 70 billion deficits, we're going to have plus 50 billion surpluses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28707	The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Milos Boskovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Tatjana Macura submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Djordje Vukadinović and Slavisa Ristic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Šulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 3a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28708	Thank you. This is an amendment to full transparency, obliges the state to publish every month for the previous month exactly how much money has been spent on the budget and to whom that money has gone, to publish all the contracts it signs, and to make it available to all citizens, to publish job systems, to work effects, to finally introduce order in the country. All the stories about how complicated it is and how much resources it requires fall into the water before the fact that, as Minister of 2013 in a month, I introduced total transparency in the work of the Ministry of Economy, where every month it was announced exactly how much money was spent, the systematization of jobs, all subsidies, all contracts were hung up so that citizens could see. So this is a simple introduction. This is the amendment that the minister mentioned today as repeated many times. We simply prevent the debate on all of them by adopting the amendment, which is practically one anti-corruption drug, which will strike the biggest blow to corruption and in general the partocracy in Serbia. Transparency is this key drug. If you adopt one of these amendments, we will, of course, withdraw the others, because one is enough. If not, we'll repeat this story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28709	The word has been made by Minister Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28710	I'm just saying that with an idea and a spirit, I always agree, when I'm actually in agreement, I'm not ashamed to say it at all. So I agree with you essentially. The level of detail you state I failed to find, perhaps Sweden has that level of detail in the monthly publication of all data. What has puzzled me is that you've been discussing in principle since the beginning of the debate, and these two days here debates have been constantly talking about amendments to each other to pile up, to repeat, to contradict each other. You have, I total numbered, 440 amendments with the same text, it only differs the date when it is published. And these amendments rule out each other, they're probably filed in order not to unite the debate with intent to buy time. If you adopted the first of them, your effectiveness would be, I calculated, I had time, 2.27 pi. If the other amendments you have criticised here were accepted, 18 different amendments by the SNS parliamentary group, their effectiveness would be 5.9%, 26 times higher. So, I'd like to add here on the side of the promoter, that time struggle is legitimate, but there are some parameters that we should respect. So I'm asking you to propose amendments in the future, which, at the very least, might... What's very important here, your group couldn't vote, because the amendments exclude each other. You did so so that your colleague first, you suggest that he publish the 10th of the month, and your colleague 11. So, either you'd step down from the rules you've been representing for the last three days. For the last three days, you would step away from the rules or you would have one vote at a time. Look, it would take 125 other people to back you up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28711	By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28712	Well, the amendment. I have the right to a replica, of course, but that's your manners, giving you a replica of only the ruling majority. I am very pleased, the minister here deceives the citizens, the fundamental difference between the 300 amendments submitted by the ruling majority, and this amendment is that this something is fundamentally changing. It obliges the state to publish all contracts and all money. These amendments, submitted by the ruling majority, change nothing on the budget and will not vote for their own amendments. The Minister's making it look like he doesn't understand this. Minister, if you don't adopt by the 10th, since it's a short period of time, they've given you the opportunity until the 11th. Well, if you're not by the 11th, by the 12th. No need for Sweden, Minister. The Ministry of Business in the Government of the Republic of Serbia had full transparency from September 2013 to January 2014. So here we were in front of Sweden, it's possible at no cost. Sit tight, calculate the efficiency of the ruling majority who have submitted their amendments, which they will not vote for themselves. Because if they voted for their amendments, it would make sense to take them. We'll vote for ours. Vote for one, any and that will introduce full transparency and the fight against corruption. And you're afraid to argue about it, so you're saying completely irrelevant things. So, you adopt the amendment, publish the contracts and how money is spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28713	The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28714	In fact, I just volunteered to tell Mr. Secretary one example of how it stands behind its own words and suggestions and what effect it has in practice tomorrow. What is often mentioned in this room, Mr. Minister, is the term of transparency and how this transparency is achieved for the record period, they have had opportunities, you know, to achieve it in practice, at the level of a system that is so large and complex, such as a city municipality in Belgrade, and a very small town municipality, when you look at the number of inhabitants and when you look at the surface. Of course they haven't even introduced T out of transparency. You know how long they haven't been able to get her in? In two years. They had opportunities, from 2012 to 2014 it seems to me that they participated in most of them there. Do you think they've published one single document of those they've determined to publish? They're not one. I think that this example speaks enough based on life practice what it really looks like when it comes to something, or when there's just talk about something and nothing better than that. Thank you. (Saša Radulovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28715	Wait, Radulovic, first Minister. The minister also has a right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28716	I want a replica of your exposure. You said it was very desirable. I agree in principle, but here are some colleagues here to assess how realistic it is. Not to read the introduction. It says – an internet presentation for the previous month until the 10th month is required to publish a list and estimate the value of each item of material and immaterial property, a list of judicial disputes with the value of the dispute, all contracts that have been signed, each spent dinar on each budget contract in particular to indicate who was paid for and on which contract. Then it goes on – means a monthly update of the following data on the website of all beneficiaries of the budget: the number of employees, the systematization of jobs with the necessary qualifications and indicators for measuring the work effect, the date of employment, the total amount of gross earnings, especially for all persons employed indefinitely, for a certain period of time, on occasional and temporary jobs, labour contracts and authorial contracts. I think Sweden has been away from this for decades. If it could, then I'm really not well informed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28717	Here you go, colleague Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28718	We were also in a municipality where we had a small group of MPs who introduced us every month to announce where the money went, so a colleague should be informed. As for the introduction of this complete transparency, we introduced this into the Ministry of Economy, introduced, so the systems of jobs exist. I'll remind you of your ID cards. If you had paid a little attention to them in 2014, you would not have ended up with huge losses on these various companies, where, for example, Jelizara Smederevo 270m euros in two years, 2014 and 2015. And it didn't occur to anyone, nor did it occur to anyone to fire anyone, but to bring order. For ‘Belgrade on Water’ e.g. Railways could have come from land on the ground, which is 100 ha of land in Amphitheatre, worth over a billion euros. That money is enough to restructure the railroad. So, when property is being arched, when money is being arched in this way without elemental responsibility, then you have consequences. The consequences are wage cuts, pension cuts, hand-to-hand cuts in citizens' pockets, tax hikes, etc. So that's because of your irresponsibleness. It means a list of assets made for every company in Serbia, for each of the Railways, through all public enterprises, for all social firms. It was interrupted after my resignation. So, basically, we've been cut off from law enforcement, and we have consequences. After that, you have to cut wages and pensions because you can't turn to what you should do. You should, I suppose, know that these systems of jobs exist. If you're running the firm right, if you're running the ministry right, I guess you already have it. Labour impact criteria, and systematization, and when the employee is there, it is simply published on the site. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28719	Right to the replica of the People's Messenger. A colleague of Rističević's on what grounds. Hold on, first fellow Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28720	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Okay, that's clear to understand what we're talking about. The moment those of you who care so much about the issue of transparency and the realisation of it in practice say themselves, they better say it than we do. What municipality was promised transparency and a decadently beautiful item per item? What they promised would be published as often and as detailed, and then to show that they did, that they published it. I'll be happy to accept that I've done something wrong. But I'm telling you right now, it won't show it, among other things, because it's easily verifiable. And today there is a site of that municipality, and today there are pages from that period when they had the opportunity to achieve this transparency in practice, so you can see everything well. Not only a document that they promised to publish, how often and how detailed, but also what they had revealed. So, I tell you once again it's a pure story, a simple story, a story that works out that there was nothing out of this transparency. There's evidence, material evidence at the moment. If not, they have all the freedom and free hands to show that's not the case. The other thing is much more important, Mr. Minister, what is the level of seriousness of speaking and mentioning the Ironworks. You're talking about helping you figure out who you're talking to, the people who are proposing, they're suggesting that this Ironzara close. They thought it was a complete failure and that the only solution was to shut down, to send 5,000 people out on the street, to absolutely no longer hurt their heads, not to look back at them, what would happen to these people and their families. Today, when it is seen that it can be solved so that Jellyzara continues to work, that 5,000 people have their bread, refuse to admit a mistake. But then again, you know what the biggest problem is? Material evidence. And today there are documents that have written themselves and called for the solution to make people unhappy. And not to be surprised, which you keep trying to explain, and I end up with Mr. Chairman, the obvious things but it has no effect in this case and on the case of these people it is applied to the people – someone baptizes him and he sings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28721	Right on line, MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28722	Thank you. When you talk about facts, you get nothing, but attempts at twisting. I won't look back on that. What's the point is when we were at the Department of Industry we published everything. So all of these things that we're talking about right now, it was done not only for the ministry but for all the businesses in Serbia, so for each of them instead, we got a complete mess. We had in our budget an item planned to pay all employees back their backs, to connect their work hours. It was part of the 2014 budget that was abolished. So, the introduction of order practically leads us and that's the right direction to reduce deficits, it leads to savings and it leads to positive effects. When you don't do that, the costs are huge. Costs on the side of public enterprises are huge. You have to give big subsidies, you have to pay off the loans, that is, to activate the guarantee and interest and the principal, and that's, say, 30 billion in this budget last year, 40 billion. That's the price of irresponsibility. It is irresponsible when the hundred hectares of the most valuable building land in Belgrade, which is the Sava amphitheater, give to foreign investors, say that the Arabs, I have not seen any Arabs there, that is what Dinkic negotiated over all of it. The land on which it is allowed to be built, two million squares of business and housing, cost that piece of land, or worth almost a billion euros. Well, that money is enough for all the things to be done in the railroad for restructuring. When you don't have a list of assets, when you don't put in order, when you have a general publicist on all sides. You have a party hiring of incompetent party personnel, then this is your consequence. Nothing can turn away from this topic and any invention of things that never happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28723	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28724	Based on this irresponsibility, inability to talk about, irresponsibility and incompetence, ladies and gentlemen, it is when you are given the opportunity to disprove, in front of the cameras and in front of the eyes of Serbian citizens, and you know that you are wrong and then accept what? To be bravely silent? Pretend like nothing happened and they'll forget? Well, they won't, they won't, because those who think they're convincing, and when they're given the opportunity, go ahead, show them, give the documents, the paper to see that you're right, they turn the other way because they know they have nothing. Irresponsibility is obvious. So obvious that it has its consequences. I don't just think about the fact that someone who acts like that can get a ceiling ceiling, as much as it was, 1.4% of the vote. He is also abandoned by those who have been deceived at some point and cooperated with him. Here, for example. in the Vračar municipality, people who are convinced of the irresponsibility like the one we were present with earlier, they leave, and end up with three councilmen of the seven with which the term of office begins. After that, almost all the councilmen on the Old Town municipality are leaving as well. A committee group disappears and in the Vozdovac municipality, leaves six committee members. At the Sava Venec, if it weren't for the very same municipality that was said of earlier where transparency was promised long and wide so it wouldn't be anywhere. On that Savawentz of seven councilmen with as much as it gets into the story, a year and a half ago, it ends up with only one, and on the Municipality of Palilula of five, it ends up at two. If the closest associates show that they have this irresponsibleness and that unseriousness, to this extent, is obvious that they will no longer have any dealings with these people, what is there to explain to them, I guess they know each other best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28725	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28726	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, when an economist sits as a ficus next to his boss of a party of electricians, an economist in an effort to talk about the budget, it's up to me, and hopefully to the viewers as well. So that's where the top economist sits on me, sitting like a ficus next to his party's boss. Isn't there more evidence of partocratism? When talking about the parasitic system, someone who rewarded Professor Pavlovic in his ministry at the salary of 150,000 more from the Republic of Serbia's budget, another 113,000. Probably because they watched together, he says, porno. It's probably a contribution to pornography. Furthermore, when the thief talks about a bankruptcy manager, a fined bankruptcy manager, I think ladies and gentlemen should consider whether the minister of stupid questions should spend smart answers. It's my opinion that someone there has mixed the drugs. The doctor said two blues, not three colorful ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28727	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28728	Thank you, Chairman. You violated article 106 that the speaker can only speak about the agenda point. The Rules of Procedure and 104 were injured and you were supposed to give me the replica just now. It's got to be about the agenda point, and I know these words hurt, it hurts to talk about the amendments, it hurts to talk about the budget. He was running away from it for two or three days, and now he's come to debate. You can't run away with insults. So you should respect the Rules of Procedure. You shouldn't have let this happen. You should have warned the MP. He didn't say a word about the amendment, and he answered after the amendment. The citizens see it. It obviously hurts to talk on the amendment. Come on, please, take care of the order in the National Assembly and the MPs can't talk about what's on their mind. Every time a honourable MP calls and talks past the subject, usually with insults. You just have to stop it. Otherwise, citizens should know that when you do something like that, you are practically afraid to argue. When you don't give replicas, you're afraid to argue. Please respect the Rules of Procedure. The citizens are watching you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28729	It's just a matter of work, Mr. Radulovich, that someone is afraid of you. I do not consider that I have violated the said Rules of Procedure, because your amendment says that all employees and their data should be published on the website of the Authority, or the beneficiary of the budget. Mr. Marijan Rističević read employees in your cabinet on various grounds – based on working relationships, temporary and part-time jobs or work contracts. I didn't know some of my colleagues were working with you at the ministry. And if you stand for that transparency, don't make it declarative, but let your colleague say what he thinks about it. (Sasa Radulovic: You are not embarrassed? There's no reason for me to be a disgrace, and I don't know what to do with you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Nogo has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28730	I suggest that the injured member is 107 - the dignity of the National Assembly. The previous speaker, Mr. Risticevic, I know he has the need to distract the topic from the debate on the budget, to protect the minister, but I think, really, if his pornography is everything he understands from the budget and that pornography is kept by the minister, then it's really bad. I ask you to respond and protect the dignity of the National Assembly, because it really shouldn't be about such topics to be discussed in the plenary session, especially on the important subject of what the budget is.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28731	An amendment proposing the addition of Article 3a. National MP Vladimir Djuric submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) An amendment proposing the addition of Article 3a. The People's MP, Ratko Jankov, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) An amendment proposing the addition of Article 3a. National MP Milos Boskovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) An amendment proposing the addition of Article 3a. The People's MP, LJupka Mihajlovska, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) An amendment proposing the addition of Article 3a. The MP, Ana Stevanovic, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) An amendment proposing the addition of Article 3a. The People's MP, Tatjana Macura, submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) An amendment proposing the addition of Article 3a. National MP Branislav Mihajlovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) An amendment proposing the addition of Article 3a. National MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) An amendment proposing the addition of Article 3a. National MP Aleksandar Stevanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) An amendment proposing the addition of Article 3a. National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs: together by Aleksandar Seselj, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mirčić, Miljan Damjanović, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarović, Sveto Perić, Petar Jojic, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Tomislav LJubenović, Dubravko Bojić, Nikola Savinović and Marina Ristić and together by Marko Djurić, Nenad Konstanović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, MP Balša Bozovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Ivan Kostic, Dragan Vesovic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Miladin Ševarlić: Do I have the right to the word? You have no right. You've wasted your time. A colleague of Nogo's spent time with your MP group. National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 4a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 4a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 4a was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 4a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 4a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 4a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 4a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 4a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 4a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 4a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 4a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs of the Serbian Radical Party Group and jointly Marko Djurisic, Nenad Constantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Miladin Ševarlic: Can I do the Rules of Procedure? According to the Rules of Procedure? The word of the messenger of the people is Miladin Shevarlic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28732	Article 107 - Parliament's dignity. In fact, there is a time of five minutes and 59 seconds on the e-parliament. Is that true or not true?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28733	That's not true, Mr. Chevarlich. There's no more time. It's hand-counted, and you can check it later, based on a stenogram. The 5th amendment was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs were submitted by Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesovic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic together submitted the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 5a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 5a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 5a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 5a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 5a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 5a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 5a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 5a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 5a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 5a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, together by Aleksandar Seselj, Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mirčić, Miljan Damjanović, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic, Nemanja Sarović, Sveto Perić, Petar Jojic, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Tomislav LJubenović, Dubravko Bojić, Nikola Savic and Filip Stojanović, together Marko Đurić, Nenad Konstanović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic and together Marinika Tepic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Tatjana Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Ivan Kostic, Dragan Vesović, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Šulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 6a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 6a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 6a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 6a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 6a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 6a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 6a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 6a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 6a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 6a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 6a was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 7th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Ivan Kostic, Dragan Vesović, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic and Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatović, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 7a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 7a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 7a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 7a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 7a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 7a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 7a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 7a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 7a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 7a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 7a was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Tatjana Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28734	Thank you. I'll do it again. It's very good that the deficit is reduced. It's reduced in a very wrong way. There's a hand in the pockets of citizens and businesses. All taxes are up, left in the country. Huge subsidies continue to be granted to foreign investors and public enterprises. Guarantees are paid. One general irresponsibility and example of partocratism. At the end of the day, all citizens pay the price. We pay a very low price for GDP growth. Serbia has a 1.66% growth between 2014 and 2016, cumulative growth. For example, Kosovo has 9% in the same period, Romania 12%, Montenegro 7%, Albania 8%. We paid the price of very badly implemented reforms. We are proposing that law be put in place in the country, that the state saves, not the citizens. We have proposed that the work experience be linked to the payments for all employees of social enterprises, to pay off the war logbooks for all those who had during the 1990s wars in Kosovo. We suggest introducing free textbooks for all children in primary and secondary schools. We propose a reduction in the workload, so that there is an untaxable part, that is, the part on which contributions for health care are not paid, to the minimumer. These are real incentives and birthrights, or parenting struggles, and on the other hand, make measures to support domestic economy. This is the way you keep your balance in the budget, and on the other hand, you realize the effects we need in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28735	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28736	According to the amendment, it's not disputed. Just in the spirit of the debate and because of the term "responsibility". Well, let's say, on this subsidy. The irresponsibility, I think, is heard by the government's representatives, when, for example, someone. He says investment subsidies are a good thing, someone like that. be in a position to prepare this country's budget and to ask itself whether or not there will be these subsidies and then make a decision to make them, of course, and predict them in the budget for example. 2014 And then forget overnight that he did it, that he made such statements. And it can be found, we talked about material evidence today, everything on the Internet, and what it looks like and what it's called and what it said about subsidies, for example. 2013 He's changing his mind today because he thinks everyone's getting amnesia. This is, for example, irresponsibleness. The irresponsibility is, too, when someone talks about the party state, and on a personal basis, on friendship or party acquaintance, what do I call it, brings to his cabinet, therefore, to the state's manger, 28 of his associates. It is a supreme irresponsibility when someone is involved in the availability of property and money to Serbian citizens, and then spend it on what? To give a job to your own company, or to your wife's firm. These are all examples of irresponsibility. And this budget, this, ladies and gentlemen, is all the opposite of that, the ultimate and responsible relationship both towards society and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28737	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28738	Thank you for the replica. This is a bunch of lies. First of all, I didn't hire anyone at the ministry, no one at all. What the MP is talking about was making ID cards for all the enterprises in the restructuring, for all the companies, and then practically, while we were doing those ID cards, we had to bring people just for that job. They have nothing to do with my party. My cabinet was the smallest of all cabinets, smaller than all cabinets of ministers who were here all the time. So, simply, these things don't stand, but it's one twist that's completely untrue. This is only done to escape from the essence, and the bottom line is that we have a very bad budget, that the state didn't save anywhere, that the state wasn't saving anywhere, practically costing the citizens and the economy at the end. If he had watched a little budget MP, he would have seen on the site that there were no subsidies at all from the Ministry of Economy in the 2014 budget. What he's talking about, it's just not true, but well, we're used to it from him, and it's like that every time. Otherwise, when we leave, there are some subsidies that can sometimes be given. However, when we entered the Ministry and saw what it looked like and took a party racket for each of them, then we taught it all, because it's clean corruption and that corruption still deals with power at all levels, all citizens know about it, party employment is theirs, so it's tens of thousands of people who are in charge of the public sector, they don't have enough chairs to sit on them. Respecting the projects of introducing ID cards for all businesses, hiring young people and economists who did it, and then making up that they have something to do with Enough It was really funny. There were five people in my office we worked with, and that's all. We went in and out of the Ministry when I resigned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28739	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, member 104 has been injured. It's your right to give a replica. So, that's discreet. You decide in the end, but two conditions must be met before. It's one thing to be mentioned by name and last name, to be misunderstood, etc. The misunderstood doesn't mean misunderstood. The fact that he's a little electric, a little psychotic, misunderstood, that's not the basis for giving a replica. Second, he's been using false data all along. So it's not true what he said. He stands for the non-partian state, for everything is transparent, etc., and when he spits on me and the lice, then to those who do so he transfers 800,000 dinars, and of course he shows no transparency. I suggest that you pay a little attention in the future, given that it violates the dignity of the National Assembly, it provides incorrect information. Here's a list of all his part-department officials in the parasitic system, who he called the Department of Economy at the head with him. The fact that he's a little psychotic, that he's a little electric, that there's no lithium, that's not our problem, that's the problem of professional, other species. In the future, I don't blame you for being lenient to the opposition like this, but to limit it a little bit and try to do it once or twice. So, I have full understanding, but you have to take care of a man who can get in here with a guitar, and he can help get his soul porn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28741	Do you want the National Assembly to plead? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP Sasa Radulovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28742	Thank you, Chairman. Article 103 has been injured. The speaker used a replica, talked for two minutes, and he had no basis for that. Article 103 states how to use a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have to explain how it was created, and you have to use that time to continue to insult, to make things up for the Rules of Procedure. You know that very well, but apparently Mr. Orlic threatened you with a finger, we made a video, so we'll hang it, so people will be able to see it. So this is really humiliating the dignity of the National Assembly. You should stop doing that. You cannot allow such insults by Members of Parliament, using Article 103 of the Rules of Procedure. Apparently, they're in a bit of a pain, but they're having a little trouble discussing the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28743	Thank you. All right, take it easy, you'll all get your turn. I know it's too late to work long, but come in, sign in, and you'll get a word in line with the Rules of Procedure. Just an explanation to Mr. Radulovic, Mr. Risticevic explained in his characteristic way why he believes that I hurt the Rules of Procedure and, of course, advertised point 104. Rules of Procedure, and explained it. I don't think I hurt him. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. ) What you saw in the hall that was going on, I'll just tell you that RTS alone has the right to record here in Parliament's hall. Don't worry about the coalition relations between us and the SNS. I'm sure you have more concerns than we do. The word is made by MP Aleksandra Tomic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28744	Chairman, I am advertising the Rules of Procedure, Rule 27, because you are not implementing the Rules of Procedure properly because the previous speaker, when we talk about the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, has done a minor replica by advertising an article. 103rd and 107th. So, first he said 107, and then he said 103, because the predecessor, Mr. Marijan Risticevic, advertised Article 106, and before that he made an injury that referred to the insult of Mr. Orlic in his performance when he defended exposure in the form of replication. What should have been said is that there is no need to talk about violations of the three-member Rules of Procedure, because there is no basis for this, especially when it presents certain facts when it speaks about the growth of Kosovo-type economic activity, which is 9%, which is otherwise financed exclusively by an ino-data where the unemployment rate is more than 40%. Do not replace the thesis in such statements and insult SNS MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28745	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to come forward in voting day, since I believe I did not harm the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28746	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the subject of our communication, I have promised you that I must praise you publicly, and I am doing so now, and to commend you to those who have just come forward, they have received the word to replicate, even though they did not have the basis. You've shown the width and tolerance. Just think of it when next time you're accused of being some terrible dictator or whatever I know. It's been said here that something isn't true. I call now on citizens who are watching this that if they are on the internet, as they would say, look for the text published in "Blica" where the title "We do not lift subsidies for investors" from September 2013. Let them check whether they can find, in addition to someone's wonderful photograph, the following words – Sure that in 2014 we will not go to the suspension of subsidies for investors who are opening new jobs, reveals one minister of the time and explains that this measure exists in other countries and that there must be something that will make it clear that investors will define themselves for Serbia. So that's what I was saying was someone's attitude. If it's true, let the citizens check it out. We don't have to explain everything to them. The contract to do temporary and occasional jobs in the cabinet, which I mentioned, 12 names, and first on the list Ivan Ninic. Does anyone who is Ivan Ninic, where he is now, what does he do and receives 80,000 dinars? The contract on work, there are 13 names, and first on the list Dusan Pavlovic. Do any of the citizens happen to know who he is, where he is now, what he does, and he received 113,000 dinars? Special advisers, the first on the list of Miroslav Milenovic. Do the citizens, who are following this, who is she, where she is now, what does she do, and 120,000 dinars were in her case? Nine billion and change were published in the "Official Messenger", as regards the 2014 budget. Let me tell you something, Mr. Chairman, and I'm ending it, that they're embarrassing themselves by denying this, it's nothing weird. It is about the largest plagiarists in Serbia's history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28747	Thank you, colleague Orlic. A colleague of Radulovic, a colleague of Orlic's replicated to you, you said your... (Saša Radulovic: He insulted. He's been insulting me for two minutes. )......................................................................................................... And I listened very closely to what you were talking about. You were saying what you were doing during your term as Minister of Business in the Government... (Sasa Radulovic: What do you explain? )......................................................................................................... And you answered how many people were employed in your office. He's the man who said his things. It's probably gonna be the same story. (Sasa Radulovic: I'm not talking about him. I'm just talking about myself. ) He didn't mention you, he didn't mention much. It was like a parliamentary group, so let's move on, to be more efficient. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Serbian Radical Party submitted together to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Enis Imamovic, Natasa Micic, Bajro Gegic, Nenad Milic and Dr Zarko Korac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Šulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Maja Vidinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatović, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski, Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Novica Tonchev. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marija Janjusevic and Mr Ivan Kostic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Dragan Vesovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Mr Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28748	To whom the Government of the Republic of Serbia is obliged when the budget in Article 8 divided point 12) gives municipalities of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja 269m dinars of transfers to local government. So, the Serbian government headed by Aleksandar Vukic, in the image of Ana Brnabic, gives 269 million Albanians in three municipalities, and gives the entire Serbian diaspora, Serbs in the region, to all Serbian organisations 100 million. Is that some debt that he has to pay them back? Is that why the son of Nasser Keljmendi's greatest criminal is in Belgrade, harassing Serbian girls, and who are we giving money to in the first place? To those people who take away our territory from us, we give them 269 million dinars. Also, 11 billion dinars are given again for foreign businesses, for subsidies. The items of the budget do not say how much the company is given, and where today is the Minister of Business, Goran Knezevic, to say what is going on in the "Fiitat". We continue to subsidise "Fiat" and "Fiata" workers wanted to strike the other day. What happens to "Tenis", the land we gave to the Germans, which they delayed to process until 2019? What happens to "Goss" and unpaid workers, not only them, but 82,500 workers in Serbia in the last 17 years have been robbed, not paid contributions? Why is it that 11 billion dinars we subsidize foreigners are not allowed to contribute to and to connect work experience to businesses? This is proof that this government, as well as President Aleksandr Vukic, is primarily in the interest of foreign interest, that they don't care about domestic businessmen, that they don't care about the Serbian development industry, about the processing industry, about Serbian agriculture, about everything that can fix the situation in the state of Serbia. Also, instead of giving it to families, instead of giving it to improve the demographic position of the Serbian people, we give it to foreigners and Albanians.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28749	Thank you. Comrade Kostic, just to tell you that you have nine seconds left, so you can plan. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go. On what basis are you answering? (Vladimir Orlic: Replica. The president of the party is mentioned. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28750	Thank you very much. The fact that some people don't have that much...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28751	I'm sorry, the president of the party has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28752	... When I talk about how helpful the Serbian people are in the region, one who asks that question must know at least basic things. He'd have to be at least so minimally interested in the problem and if he followed it, so he'd have heard it for sure, he wouldn't have missed it, for example. right in Mostar, at least three programmes supported by the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to helping the very Serbian people, how much I remember about the church, both about school and about Ducic's evenings. So just to keep track of the news, there's nothing more to it, so much so that you have little interest in knowing that and you wouldn't ask those questions. He's not here, Mr. Chairman, because there's real concern. It was set up for other reasons to talk about Kosovo here, to talk about debts here. There is absolutely no one to talk about Kosovo if it identifies itself with Vuk Tadic, if it identifies itself with such an irresponsible relationship as the opinion of the International Court of Justice itself, which they have initiated, with such an irresponsible relationship as bringing down dialogue from the UN level to the level of the EU itself. Debts can't be talked about by someone who, as an NGO, was funded by the DOS regime both in 2005 and 2006 and 2007, I think, by the ministries. He cannot talk about this debt to anyone who received money from the DOS regime through donations from public enterprises in 2004. It's like in that case just before all the confidential stuff, everything on the Internet exists. If they came forward to protect whoever had just received what was coming to him, I must say that I understand, because they are not the only ones present here who were ministers for a few months, so they were thrown out when they saw what they were doing and what ideas they had. You know who, and I end up with that, Mr. Chairman, had the same short career, also ended up as Minister Dimitria LJocic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28753	The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28754	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, I respect when this group of mousemen, stoners insist on truth, justice, and when they demand that all violations be revealed. It's some of their characters or whatever it's called, but ladies and gentlemen MPs, funds for the election campaign, as they know, there are those of us who know it very well, who usually neutrally return to the budget. Those who swore honesty in Hilandar took 5,000 euros and said they would not make a party, and made it, recently in the presidential campaign, forgot to return 25 million dinars of 28 in the budget. In fact, money is fictitiously pumped into entrepreneurial stores, and when it wants irregularities let's read to them, only in Borca to their members who are also on their list pumped over 15 million dinars. He says – Verica Cvianović Entrepreneur, Ivan Cvianović Entrepreneur, Branislav Simidzija Entrepreneur, Zeljko Cvianović Entrepreneur, Nevena Tomic Entrepreneur, Zvezdan Arsenijević Entrepreneur, Kostadin Mihailović Entrepreneur, Jelena Lijetić Entrepreneur. They've been fictitiously opening up entrepreneurship stores. Since they're not in VAT, the money is pumped. There's everything here. The money is pumped into cash, stuffed in pockets, I say this because of their members to know, because I believe there are honest members among them who finance this organization, among them priests from Hilandar, that they know that the state funds that are not spent and should return to the budget put into the leaders' pockets of the organisation and in such a way that the budget of the Republic of Serbia has been damaged, the tax evasion has been committed, so let's say the only incomes of these organisations, i.e. the business operations that are now being closed, because they were only for money laundering, all the money has been raised in cash, each of them have been paid by the money, so that the total amount is 25 million and we can talk about the figures – Branislav Simidija – 3 million, Verica Cvianovic, the entrepreneur, 6 million 139 thousand, Ivan Cvianovic – 6 million, 6 million 801 thousand etc. I can also show the election list to show that they were all candidates on their list. Under regular number 91, 160 and something, 199, 71, 17. So these were these confidential members that made money laundering, where they put money in their pockets, probably their leader, and today they're telling us about the affairs, and this is very clean. Of course, as a citizen of this knowledge, I will hand this over to the Criminal Police Administration, so let them deal with this problem together with the Money Laundering Authority, the Tax Administration and other competent authorities. Only so, ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of the viewers to know that those who insist on being fair are state money, which should have been returned to the budget, took 25 million dinars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28755	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28756	When a man talks about this, I'd like the investigative authorities to start doing their job, so let's see who robbed the state, who sucked everything he could suck out of state and commodity reserves, so we can finally see who's sitting here and who's the ruling coalition. As for Serbs in the region and financing, so 100 million dinars are officially given for Serbian organisations, 269 million are given to Albanians in three municipalities. I forgot to say that the government of the Republic of Serbia has now funded Albania with 100,000 euros in floods. Did the Albanians and the president of Rama finance the Obrenovac when they were floods? This is only one proof of the impact of our government, the government of Montenegro and the government of Albania and their common goal, that is to finance all NATO-related projects. So I can't wait to open up the affairs in which the MP is speaking, so let's see who's been stealing the state here, how much he's stolen and whose property, in the last two years since he's been a MP, has been increasing every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28757	Thank you, colleague Kostic. The violation of the Rules of Procedure, Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28758	Dear Chairman, thank you. The 107th member is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, when my esteemed counterpart Kostic speaks of the allocation of 296 million to Albanians in three municipalities, I am simply shocked. It's not a secession for Albanians, it's...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28759	My colleague Vujadinović, you did not get a replica, but a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28760	That, I point out, is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, in terms of carrying out the untruth and insulting of the state integrity of the Serbian state. Namely, it is not an isolation for Albanians, it is an isolation for three municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. Two hundred ninety-six million in three municipalities in the south of Serbia is a perfectly normal separation, such as 800 million for the "ipislon" arm in Subotica in northern Serbia. It's the exact same size. It is not an isolation for Albanians, and you are obliged to interrupt the speaker in the future when he utters such words. As for Serbs in the region...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28761	Don't, don't. You said... Don't replicate now, please. Thank you. Don't abuse the pay phone. I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, I'm sure. Mr. Kostic expressed his political position, I did not notice that in any way, he influenced or, in his own opinion, created any picture of the violation of our country's territorial integrity. He has expressed his political position, he has the right to do so. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Thank you. Okay. Marijan Risticevic, please. On what grounds? (Marian Risticevic: Replica. No, you have no right to a replica. I absolutely didn't... (Marian Rističević: According to the Rules of Procedure. According to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28762	I'm advertising Article 104. So you hurt the Rules of Procedure, you have two standards. One for a colleague, one for me. So, he was saying, you gave him the right to a replica, and in doing so he even hurt the dignity of the National Assembly, made a lie. He tried to me, which, and the documents show it, ordered control of the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate and in 2013 found less than 80,000 tonnes. Since a harsh untruth and hurt dignity has been presented, I am obliged to read this document very briefly as far as I am concerned – Marijan Rističević, as a natural person or representative of a legal person, did not have a business relationship with the Republic Directorate for Stock Reserves. – Marijan Risticevic has made no income from the Republic Directorate for Stock Reserves, as a natural person and as a representative of the legal person. – Marijan Risticevic never asked for services and called the Republic Directorate for Stock Reserves for any natural or legal person. It's a document. The second document is about what we found in 2013, 80,000 tons, and there is a mention of a face from that yellow company called Dobrivoje Sudjum from Krcedin. That same face that signed the famous 52,000-for-vine premium for Zoran Zivkovic. So much for hurting dignity. What I read was a completely different nature. I need them to tell me if those faces were entrepreneurs on their list or not, did they get the money I read or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28763	Thank you. You pointed out a breach of the Rules of Procedure, although I haven't thought of you for a moment. Maybe I could think of someone else, but in that context, not you, so you didn't have any needs, but okay. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has the People's MP Ivan Kostic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28764	Mr. Vujadinović, may I ask him to take a look at the structure of the 269 million and ask him who is in charge of these three municipalities? Let him see that all the money goes to the projects of the municipalities they propose, not the Serbian people in the south.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28765	The word is made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28766	Thank you. The government in municipalities, in municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, is doing the one who won the elections, as is the case at the level of the Republic of Serbia. One who has received 55% of Serbian citizens' support in the last elections, exercises power and that is quite clear. Whoever won 2% in the election won't and can't exercise power. I must also tell you that it is another bribery, primarily for the citizens of Serbia, when it comes to detachment for municipalities in southern Serbia, it is absolutely one common thing that the Republic of Serbia singles out for any of its municipalities, whether it is in the south or in the north of the country. I'm telling you, in Subotica, in addition to these 800 million Serbian Governments, it stands out 67 million for the stadium, and that's around 867 million in total. As for the separation, I must tell you the chairman, and I ask you not to interrupt me, the secession for Serbs in the region, and that is a group of bribery, I remind you only in the last three months, the government of the Republic of Serbia has allocated fivem euros to Republika Srpska, a million euros for three Serb municipalities in the Federation of BiH, Grahovo, Drvar and Glamoc. Half a million euros a month ago to build a SPC in Mostar, 25,000 euros to buy equipment for the Serbian school in Mostar, 2,000 euros for Ducic's poetry nights in Mostar. Should I keep counting? The results are similar in the region's elections. In Banja Luka, in the electoral seat of the Council of the Republic of Serbia 67% of Aleksandar Vukic, in Berani 92%, in Herceg Novi, 93%, and this speaks of the support of Serbs in the region of the government of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28767	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28768	A few seconds, Mr. Chairman, when you're already invited to check things out. Tonight we have opened a topic of opportunity for citizens to check out certain sources directly on the internet. I call on citizens who are watching this, when we are talking about a relationship with the Serbian people, to check if the internet is at hand. Article of 9 March 2011, titled "The Guidelines for Negotiations with Pristina", and point 3. to see who this advocates co-operation on mediation in negotiations with Pristina. It looks right with the EU, which is respected as a mediator in the dialogue. Furthermore, to advocate co-operation with KFOR, which is usually NATO formation, if someone does not know and not to surprise citizens when they check it. These things appear to be the very ones who claim that it is bad co-operation with KFOR, it is bad to have any relationship with the NATO Pact, especially the KIM for which the biggest evil in the world is the fact that the EU is intervening in negotiations. Otherwise, not to be surprised the citizens who check it out, so this paper is found. He won't be found on the official website of the organisation that has these views, so he often changes them. They will find them on the site of a new Serbian political thought, but will find them again. Some things once they're on the Internet, they're there forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28769	National MP Mirjana Dragas submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Jesic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Ivković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP mg Goran Chabradi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gordan Komic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nada Lazic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ( ) counterpart Nada Lazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28770	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, unfortunately here we have been sitting here for the third day, and only now have we reached the core of what is today's session, that is, this session, which is the budget. With no time left, all I have left is the time of the parliamentary group, because the change time has been spent. In particular, I would like to present an amendment relating to the position, to the division of the Ministry of People's Defence. In fact, the 2018 draft budget plans to increase the budget for expenditure for the People's Defence from six to 15 billion dinars. Since these are huge funds, I personally... Can I ask my colleagues for a little quiet? My colleagues obviously don't care about the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28771	I'm asking my colleagues for peace in the House and let's give our colleague Nadia Lazic a chance to say what she's got.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28772	Looks like the game's going on, so nobody's interested in the budget now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28773	Please excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28774	So, for this division of national defence, I have proposed in the amendment that 360 million dinars be allocated to the Ministry of Agriculture for two positions. One position is for the Water Directorate, where I suggested that 120 million dinars be transferred for the purchase of an ice-cracker. I will remind you that when there was a principle debate, there was Minister Nedimovic here and he said that he was in the position of machines and equipment of some 300 million dinars, and an iceman, he was even rather cynical when he said it was not a plastic toy or something like that, so that he would go to the store and get himself, but rather build. According to his statement, somewhere from the beginning of this year, some indicative price of an ice-cracker, or two-purpose vessel, is about four million euros, so it's not small funds, and I assume that the government is going into the approval procedure, or tender to get something like that. I will only remind myself that on the Committee on Agriculture this year on two occasions, when quarterly reports were adopted, it was presented that we had paid 80 million for the lease from Hungary for the last winter, when it was big ice, so I thought and then it was promised, the minister promised that we would go shopping and therefore I felt it was necessary to transfer some of the funds from the defence budget to the purchase of the ice-cracker. I'm afraid the minister responded, such an ad hoc, without actually predicting the right position. We'll see about that next year, whether that intention was sincere or just wanted to, as you would say, satisfy my curiosity. The next position is the same in the area of agriculture. It is for the Water Budget Fund, where I have suggested that it also, from that position of defence, be transferred 260 million dinars to the water protection sector against pollution. Unfortunately, in this area we're very lagging behind, we're having a lot of trouble with wastewater, and that's all the municipalities have. The competences of municipalities, when it comes to wastewater, or municipal waste water, and there are very big problems with the fact that municipalities do not have enough capacity or resources to deal with this problem. I therefore felt that it was necessary to transfer certain funds to transfer them to local self-government, to start solving the final issue of wastewater. Unfortunately, I also said in the principle debate that the area of environmental protection and in this budget has a relationship to this area, such maternal and minimal resources have been invested, although we have had the opportunity to hear that sustainable development is being represented, that we will fight for it. Unfortunately, this is not the case with these budget proposals, i.e. the opposite, which is why I felt it necessary to separate larger resources for the water protection sector. Unfortunately, these proposals have not been accepted, so even in the following year, we will not do anything in this area again, and this has a direct effect on the health of the population and the environment, and also on the development of tourism that we want to promote, but if we do not have clean water, clean rivers, if we have a problem with drinking water, if we have a problem with waste, we will hardly achieve such a thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28775	Thank you. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Žigmanov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Alexander Chabrai submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8th of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radojićic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 8a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 8a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 8a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 8a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 8a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 8a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 8a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 8a was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 8a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 8a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 8a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the SRS Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 9th amendment, in the same text, the MPs were submitted by Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Ana Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Tatjana Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the Serbian Movement of the Dvori. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Chabrai submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatović, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 9a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 9a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 9a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 9a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 9a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 9a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 9a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 9a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 9a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 9a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Serbian Radical Party jointly submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Ana Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Tatjana Macura submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dragan Vesović, Zoran Radojčić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić submitted the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Movement of Serbia submitted together to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic submitted the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Alexander Chabrai submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 10a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 10a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 10a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 10a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 10a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 10a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 10a was submitted by MP Tatjana Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 10a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 10a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 10a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Serbian Radical Party submitted to the 11th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs were submitted by Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Ana Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP Tatjana Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the Serbian Movement of the Dvori. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by the People’s MP, Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 11a was submitted jointly by Serbian Radical Party MPs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 11a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 11a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 11a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 11a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 11a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 11a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 11a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 11a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 11a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 11a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the Serbian Movement of the Dvori. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, MPs Miroslav Aleksic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Radoslav Milojic and Nenad Konstantinovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Milorad Mijatovic has a word. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28776	The Focus Group in the Serbian Parliament submitted a whole set of amendments. Our goal was, and I think we have achieved it, it is our desire to inform citizens of Serbia what these are the goals of sustainable development, which means fighting for a healthy environment, which means for clean water, for sewers. Also, our goal was to encourage the government of the Republic of Serbia to focus fully on achieving the goals of sustainable development. It's very important and very important. Since we are talking about the budget, and since we have a very good budget, a very consistent budget, it has now been difficult to participate and make those positions clearly indicated what these objectives of sustainable development mean and what resources should be targeted towards the objectives of sustainable development. However, we stress that for the 2019 budget, we will very clearly ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to clearly indicate what these funds are meant for the objectives of sustainable development. The goal we had really achieved. The focus group, which will be very active and in the coming year, will very much insist on what the goals of sustainable development mean, meaning all 17 objectives and all 169 sub-targets. Of course, the citizens of Serbia will be able to track it. These are very important things because for Serbian citizens this will mean a healthy life, a clean environment, water will mean roads, will mean better health care and will mean better education. This is what we will stand for and what the Focus Group will really insist on in the coming period to achieve the goals of sustainable development. In the fight for the social state, there will be much more that we will insist on in the 2019 budget, and with this budget, which we will certainly vote for, we really support everything that has been given and salary increases by 5% and 10%, pension increases by 5%, that means 2018 will be the year for Serbian citizens to feel what they expect better after this time of financial consolidation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28777	Thank you, Focus Group. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 12a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 12a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 12a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 12a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 12a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 12a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 12a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 12a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 12a was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 12a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the Serbian Radical Party submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the Serbian Dvori Movement. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Radoslav Milojic and joint MPs Marko Djurisic and Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Goran Ciric has submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 13a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 13a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 13a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 13a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 13a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 13a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 13a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 13a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 13a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 13a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Serbian Radical Party submitted to the 14th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Serbian Movement of the Dvori. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted to the 14th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 14a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 14a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 14a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 14a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 14a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 14a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 14a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 14a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 14a was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 14a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the Serbian Dvori Movement. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic jointly submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 15a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 15a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 15a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 15a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 15a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 15a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 15a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 15a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 15a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 15a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Serbian Radical Party submitted to the 16th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 16th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the Serbian Movement of the Dvori. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zdravko Stankovic submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 16th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Alexander Chabrai submitted to the 16th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Šulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 16a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 16a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 16a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 16a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 16a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 16a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 16a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 16a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 16a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 16a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and together Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs were submitted by Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the Serbian Movement of the Dvori. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Šulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the People’s MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 17a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 17a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 17a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 17a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 17a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 17a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 17a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 17a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 17a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 17a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the Serbian Movement of the Dvori. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Goran Bogdanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by the People’s MP, Alexander Jerkov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sonja Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Šulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Alexander Chabrai submitted to Article 18 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 18a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 18a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 18a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 18a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 18a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 18a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 18a was submitted by MP Tatjana Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 18a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 18a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 18a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Serbian Radical Party jointly submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Rističević submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Alexander Chabrai submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the Serbian Movement of the Dvori. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatović, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanić, Serbia's Filipović, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 19a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 19a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 19a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 19a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 19a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 19a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 19a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 19a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 19a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 19a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and Goran Bogdanovic, Zdravko Stankovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Marko Djurisic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 20a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 20a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 20a was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 20a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 20a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 20a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 20a was submitted by Parliamentarian Dr Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 20a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 20a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 20a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 20a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Here you are, colleague Radenkovic. (Dejan Radenkovic: Cards to get out, because MPs are not there. ) Thank you for your suggestion, and this way I call on the National Assembly to be responsible for taking out cards from MPs who are not currently in the O.R. Thank you, colleague Radenkovic, for your suggestion. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted to the same text by the MPs of the people, Aleksandra Jerkov, Sonja Pavlovic, together the MPs of the SRS and together the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic submitted the 21st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 21a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 21a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 21a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 21a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 21a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 21a was submitted by Parliamentarian Dr Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 21a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 21a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 21a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 21a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and MPs of the SDS submitted the same text to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomi, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 22a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 22a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 22a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 22a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 22a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 22a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 22a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 22a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 22a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 22a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the SRS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Šulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic submitted the 23rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 23a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 23a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 23a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 23a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 23a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 23a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 23a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 23a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 23a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 23a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28778	Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Danica Bukvic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatović, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanić, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of a member of 24a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 24a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 24a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of a member of 24a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 24a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 24a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 24a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 24a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 24a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 24a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment were submitted by the MPs of the SRS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 25th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP Alexander Jerkov submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 25a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 25a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 25a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 25a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 25a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 25a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 25a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 25a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 25a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 25a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and together Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 26th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MPplatimir Stevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dejan Sulkic submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted the 26th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 26a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 26a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 26a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 26a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 26a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 26a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 26a was submitted by Parliamentarian Dr Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 26a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 26a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 26a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, together Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic, together with Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Nenad Konstantinovic, submitted to the 27th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 27th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted the 27th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 27a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 27a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 27a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 27a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 27a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 27a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 27a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 27a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 27a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 27a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and together Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Pavlovic submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted to the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 28a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 28a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 28a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 28a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 28a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 28a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 28a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 28a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 28a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 28a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the SRS and together Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 29th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 29th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted the 29th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 29a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 29a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 29a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 29a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 29a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 29a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 29a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 29a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 29a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 29a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted to the 30th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 30a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 30a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 30a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 30a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 30a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 30a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 30a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 30a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 30a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 30a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SRS group submitted together to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 31st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanić, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 31a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 31a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 31a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 31a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 31a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 31a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 31a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 31a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 31a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 31a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS parliamentary group submitted together to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatović, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 32a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 32a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 32a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 32a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 32a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 32a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 32a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 32a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 32a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 32a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SRS group together submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 33rd amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatović, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 33a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 33a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 33a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 33a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 33a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 33a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 33a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 33a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 33a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 33a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SRS group submitted together to Article 34 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of article 34 was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of article 34 was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of article 34 was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of article 34a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 34 was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 34 was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of article 34 was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of article 34 was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of article 34a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of article 34 was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanić, Serba Filipović, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 35th Amendment were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of a member of 35a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of a member of 35a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of a member of 35a was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 35a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of a member of 35a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 35a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of a member of 35a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 35a was submitted by MP Tatjana Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of a member of 35a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 35a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of a member of 35a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatović, Sonja Vlahović, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 36a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 36a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 36a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 36a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 36a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 36a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 36a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 36a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 36a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 36a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SRS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 37th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Daniela Stojadinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Aleksandra Tomic. Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanić, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 37a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 37a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 37a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 37a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 37a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 37a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 37a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 37a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 37a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 37a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the SRS group, together with Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People’s MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to Article 38 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Aleksandra Tomic. Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanić, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 38a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 38a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 38a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 38a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 38a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 38a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 38a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 38a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 38a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 38a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS parliamentary group and together Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Nenad Konstantinovic submitted the 39th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 39th Amendment were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Aleksandra Tomic. Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanić, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 39a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 39a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 39a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 39a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 39a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 39a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 39a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 39a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 39a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 39a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SRS group together submitted to the 40th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 40th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Aleksandra Tomic. Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanić, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of members of the 40th was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of members of the 40th was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposed to add a member of the 40th was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposed to add a member of the 40th was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposed to add a member of the 40th was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of a member of the 40th was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposed to add a member of the 40th was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of members of the 40th was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of a member of the 40th was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of a member of the 40th was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SRS group together submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 41st amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliament, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted together to Article 41 of the amendment. Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanić, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 41st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 41a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 41a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 41a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of article 41a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 41a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 41a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 41a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 41a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 41a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 41a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SRS group together submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 42a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 42a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 42a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 42a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 42a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 42a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 42a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 42a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 42a was submitted by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 42a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the Serbian Radical Party have jointly submitted to Article 43 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 43rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to the 43rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted to the 43rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 43a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 43a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 43a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 43a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 43a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 43a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 43a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 43a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 43a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 43a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted together to Article 44 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandra Tomic, Milorad Mijatovic, Sonja Vlahovic, Olivera Pesic, Zoran Bojanic, Serbia's Filipovic, Snezana Petrovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Stefana Miladanovic together submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 44a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 44a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 44a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 44a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 44a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of Article 44a was submitted by MP LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 44a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 44a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 44a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of article 44a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 45th Amendment were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the Serbian Radical Party have jointly submitted to Article 45 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 45th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Tax Act on Supplement to the Article 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and together by Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komić, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Videnović, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Ješić, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevnović and Dusan Milisavljevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group and the joint MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 4 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs of the Serbian Radical Party Group and together by MPs of the Democratic Party group. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Democratic Party and together Marko Djurisic, Nenad Constantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 8 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group and the joint MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and the MPs of the Democratic Party group together, together with Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic, submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs together of the SRS parliamentary group and together by the DS parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment, in the same text, the Members of Parliament together of the SRS and together the MPs' groups of DS submitted MPs. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SRS parliamentary group and together the MP groups DS and together Marko Djurisic, Nenad Constantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SRS parliamentary group, together with the MP groups DS and together Marko Djurisic, Nenad Constantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SRS parliamentary group, together with the MP groups DS and together Marko Djurisic, Nenad Constantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, Members of Parliament together of the SRS and together of the DS parliamentary groups submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted together to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the Bill's proposal in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Taxes on Legal Persons. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs of the SRS, DS and together Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the Members of Parliament together of the SRS, MPs of the DS Group and together Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the SRS, DS and together Marko Djurisic, Nenad Constantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 4th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the SRS, DS and together Marko Djurisic, Nenad Constantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, Members of Parliament together of the SRS and the DS parliamentary groups submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, Members of Parliament together of the SRS and MPs of the DS Group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, Members of Parliament together of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 9th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the SRS parliamentary groups, the DS parliamentary groups and together Marko Djurisic, Nenad Constantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs together of the SRS parliamentary group, the DS parliamentary group and together Marko Djurisic, Nenad Constantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 11th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the SRS parliamentary groups, the DS parliamentary groups and together Marko Djurisic, Nenad Constantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, the Members of Parliament together of the SRS, the MP groups of DS and together Marko Djurisic, Nenad Constantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs combined the SRS, the DS parliamentary groups and together Marko Djurisic, Nenad Constantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, Members of Parliament together of the SRS and the DS parliamentary groups submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, Members of Parliament together of the SRS and the DS parliamentary groups submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 9th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Taxation of Civilian Income to Article 1 of the amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs together of the SRS parliamentary group, the MP group DS and together Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, Members of Parliament together of the SRS and the DS parliamentary groups submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, Members of Parliament together of the SRS and the DS parliamentary groups submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment, in the same text, Members of Parliament together of the SRS and the DS parliamentary groups submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, Members of Parliament together of the SRS and the DS parliamentary groups submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, Members of Parliament together of the SRS and the DS parliamentary groups submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, Members of Parliament together of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, Members of Parliament together of the SRS and the DS parliamentary groups submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment, in the same text, Members of Parliament together of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS and the MP groups of DS submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 35 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 39th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs together to the Serbian Radical Party and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 40 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party MPs and the joint MPs of the Democratic Party group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 41 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 43 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 45 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 47 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 48 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 49 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 50th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs together from the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 50 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 52 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together submitted the Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary groups. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 53 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28779	We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Obligations of Social Security to Article 1 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komić, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vučković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Ješić, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Democratic Party. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party submitted together to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party submitted together to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the Democratic Party together submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the Democratic Party submitted together to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 18 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Republic of Republics ADMINISTRATIVE TABLES The MPs of the Democratic Party have jointly submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs were submitted by Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic and Aleksandra Tomic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Democratic Party. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party submitted together to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party submitted together to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the Democratic Party submitted together to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 17 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 18 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the Democratic Party submitted together to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the Democratic Party submitted together to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the Democratic Party submitted together to Article 27 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, the Democratic Party and the Social Democratic Party, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the Democratic Party submitted together to Article 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the Democratic Party submitted together to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 35 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 36 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the Democratic Party submitted together to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 38 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to Article 39 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party together submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 44 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 46 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 47 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 52nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 53rd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 54th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 55 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 56th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 57 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 58 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 59 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 60 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 61 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 62nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 64 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 65 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 66 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 68 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 69 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 70 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the DS submitted together to Article 72 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic, submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 74 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 76 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 78 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 79 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Public Property, together with Article 1 of the amendment, were tabled by the MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic and SDS submitted to Article 2 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Alexander Cabraj, Sonja Pavlovic, Marinika Tepic, Zoran Zivkovic and Jovan Jovanovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 3 of the amendment, the MPs of the SDS put together, does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Democratic and SDS submitted to the 4th Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Club of Independent Members and DS and SDS submitted to the 6th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs of the DS and SDS submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the DS submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Zaric Kovacevic and Aleksandar Markovic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS and SDS submitted to the 16th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic and SDS submitted to Article 18 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and additions of Laws on the Deadline of Monetary Obligations in Commercial Transactions The MPs of the Democratic and SDS submitted to Article 1 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic and SDS submitted to Article 2 of the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic and SDS submitted to Article 3 of the amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Democratic and SDS submitted to the 4th Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments to the same text were submitted by MPs of the Democratic and SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Democratic and SDS submitted to the 6th Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Democratic and SDS submitted to the 7th Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments to the same text were submitted by MPs of the Democratic and SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and FUNDING TERORISM The MPs Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanović and Aleksandar Seselj jointly submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Verica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Filip Stojanovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Milorad Mircic, Ruzica Nikolic and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić together submitted the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Sreto Peric, Tomislav Ljubenović and Marina Ristic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dubravko Bojic, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Nikola Savic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Bozidar Delic and Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Nemanja Sarovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Milorad Mircic, Miljan Damjanovic and Marina Ristic together submitted the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic together submitted the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National Bank of Serbia submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 11th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Aleksandra Belacic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 12th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Aleksandar Seselj. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 14th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Milorad Mircic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National Bank of Serbia submitted to Article 18 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Ruzica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 22nd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Bozidar Delic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National Bank of Serbia submitted to Article 104 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The National Bank of Serbia submitted to Article 109 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National Bank of Serbia submitted to Article 116 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. We move to the 15th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Restriction of Property in the Purpose of the Prevention of Terrorism, together with Members of the People's Parliaments of Rade, Aleksandra Belačić and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Sreto Peric and Vjerica Radeta jointly submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Zoran Krasic and Vjerica Radeta together submitted to the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 12th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarovic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 16th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on the Regulation of Public Long Republic of Serbia, based on the outstanding foreign currency of the former Republic of Serbia, the seat of which is located on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches on the territory of the former republics of the SFRY, in the same text, was submitted by MP Dejan Šulkic and joint MPs of the Social Democratic Party. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 20th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and APPLICATION OF THE STEPCOME To Article 1 of the amendment, in the same text, were tabled by the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and the MPs of the Social Democratic Party. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and the People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and the People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the Serbian Radical Party submitted together to Article 4 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Social Democratic Party together submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Democratic Party of Serbia have jointly submitted to the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the Serbian Radical Party submitted together to Article 5 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Social Democratic Party together submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and the Social Democratic Party. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Serbian Radical Party and the Social Democratic Party submitted to the 8th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and the Social Democratic Party submitted to the 9th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and the Social Democratic Party submitted to the 10th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and the Social Democratic Party submitted to the 11th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and the Social Democratic Party submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Serbian Radical Party and the Social Democratic Party submitted to the 13th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Serbian Radical Party and the Social Democratic Party submitted to the 14th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and the Social Democratic Party submitted to the 15th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Social Democratic Party together submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Serbian Radical Party and the Social Democratic Party submitted to the 17th amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and the Social Democratic Party. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and the Social Democratic Party submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Social Democratic Party together submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the Democratic Party of Serbia and the Social Democratic Party submitted to the 22nd amendment, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) Article 22 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. At its meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, the proposing representative accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the SDS together submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and SDS submitted the same text to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and SDS submitted to the 25th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and SDS submitted to the 26th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and SDS submitted to the 29th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS: Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS submitted together to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the SDS submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and SDS submitted to the 34th Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS together submitted to Article 35 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS submitted together to Article 36 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the DSS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 38 by MP Neđo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS together submitted to Article 39 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DSS and the SDS submitted the same text to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 41 by MP Neđo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 44 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 44 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and SDS submitted to the 46th Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and SDS submitted the same text to Article 47 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and SDS submitted to the 48th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and SDS submitted to the 49th Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and SDS submitted to the 50th Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and SDS submitted to the 51st Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 51 by MP Neđo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and SDS submitted the same text to Article 52 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and SDS submitted the same text to Article 53 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and SDS submitted to the 54th Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and SDS submitted to the 55th Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and SDS submitted the same text to the 56th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and SDS submitted to the 57th Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and SDS submitted the same text to Article 58 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and SDS submitted to the 59th Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and SDS submitted to the 60th Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and SDS submitted to the 61st Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS and SDS submitted to the 62nd Amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the SDS submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS together submitted to Article 64 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS together submitted to Article 65 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SDS submitted together to Article 66 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 66 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail and generality in the voting day. We move to the point of the 21st agenda – Proposal for a Law on Financial Support for Family with Children. The MPs of the SDS submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. At its meeting of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ružica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SRS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SRS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the SRS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SRS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs of the Club of Independent MPs submitted together to Article 8 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the SRS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Club of Independent MPs submitted together to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS submitted together to Article 12 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Milena Bicanin and LJupka Mihajlovska, Tatjana Macura and Branka Stamenković submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Tatjana Macura, Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska and Dr. Anna Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Mirjana Dragas and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Zaric Kovacevic and Aleksandar Markovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Ana Stevanović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments together were submitted to Article 17 by the People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SRS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Club of Independent Members. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs LJupka Mihajlovska, Tatjana Macura and Branka Stamenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DJB. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Mirjana Dragas and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DJB. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Mirjana Dragas and Stefana Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty has submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. At its meeting of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Zaric Kovacevic and Aleksandar Markovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic and Olivera Pesic submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of the SRS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Zoran Bojanić and Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 26 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SRS. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment, the MPs of the Club of Independent Members submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 30 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 31 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was tabled by Parliament MP Zvonimir Stević. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivana Dinić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Daniela Stojadinović. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 33 of the amendment was submitted by MP Daniela Stojadinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted to Article 38 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic and Olivera Pesic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic and Olivera Pesic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs Jelena Zaric Kovacevic and Aleksandar Markovic submitted. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic and Olivera Pesic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 47 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to Article 49 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. At its meeting of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party submitted together to Article 53 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 53rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Zaric Kovacevic and Aleksandar Markovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 53rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Dr Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic and Olivera Pesic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the SRS submitted together to Article 54 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the Social Democratic Party jointly submitted to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the draft law in principle, detail, and generality in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28780	We move to the 22nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Labour Law to Article 1 of the amendment were submitted jointly by Members of the People's Parliaments of the Republic of Rade, Aleksandra Belačić and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Dubravko Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Verica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Aleksandar Seselj submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the SRS, the Social Democratic Party and the DS submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav LJubenović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 8th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Krasic, Momcilo Mandić and Vjerica Radeta together and together Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law on details. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 23rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of Employment and Safety Laws to be submitted jointly by Members of the People's Parliaments of the Republic of Rade, Ružica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Marina Ristic submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, together were MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanović, joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic and joint MPs of the DS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Zaric Kovacevic and Aleksandar Markovic. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarović, joint MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic and joint MPs of the DS group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Radet together submitted the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandra Belačić and Vjerica Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law on details. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 24th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Sješelj, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic, together submitted the MPs Alexander Sješelj, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Dubravko Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, Zoran Krasic and Ružica Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by Members of the People's Parliaments Vjerica Radeta, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Seselj and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Milorad Mircic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Sreto Peric and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Tomislav LJubenović and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 25th item of the agenda – Proposal for the Employment Act in Public Services The MPs Marko Djurisić, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic jointly submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Verica Radeta, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic together submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 5th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic, joint MPs of the Dveri Group and joint MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic and together by MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Parliament of the Dveri group submitted together to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, Members of Parliament together of the DSS Group, together MPs of the Dveri Group and together MPs of the DS Group of MPs submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Mariana Maras. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 23rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party have jointly submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 28th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party have jointly submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 33rd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs of the DSS Group, MPs of the Dveri Group and joint MPs of the DS Group. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party have jointly submitted to Article 34 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck together submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party have jointly submitted to Article 35 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party have jointly submitted to Article 38 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic together submitted to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party group together submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party have jointly submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 41 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together of the DS MPs and the MPs of the DSS group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Dveri group together submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 51 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 52nd Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Korak, Arpad Fremond and Zolton Peck. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Balint Pastor, Elvira Korak, Arpad Fremond and Zolton Peck. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 58 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 58 of the amendment, pursuant to Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28781	Agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-13-0.u28782	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 66th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Petar Jojic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabradi. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 69 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Goran Chabradi submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Rade together submitted to the 75th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group together submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 77th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandra Belačić and Vjerica Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 77 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 77 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the DSS parliamentary group, MPs of the Dveri Group and MPs of the DS Group submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Goran Chabradi submitted to Article 85 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 87 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabradi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 92 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabradi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 94th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, the MPs of the SDS group submitted to Article 99 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 100th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 101st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the DS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament of the Dveri Group submitted together to Article 109 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic submitted to Article 109 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 121 of the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabradi. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 121 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs of the DSS parliamentary group and the MPs of the DS Group together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Dveri Group together submitted to Article 121 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 124 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Dubravko Bojic, Verica Radeta and Zoran Krasic, does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs of the SDS together submitted to Article 133 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 140 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by Members of the People's Parliaments of Verica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the SDS parliamentary group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 155 of the amendment, in the same text, MPs together, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic, together with MPs of the SDS group, submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Ruzica Nikolic and Vjerica Radeta together submitted the 157th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Momcilo Mandić and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 26th point of the agenda – Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. The amendment, added before Article 1st, by new members of the 1st and 2nd members, was submitted by MP Hadzhi Milorad Stosic. On the basis of Article 163(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, rejected this amendment, and rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Šulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Šulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Jelena Zaric Kovacevic and Aleksandar Markovic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Marina Ristic submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Radet together submitted the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandra Belačić and Vjerica Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. After we have carried out the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 27th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Payments of Officials and ASSISTANCES IN THE AUTONOMAL COUNTRY AUTONOMAL AND UNITS OF Local Self-GOVERNMENT. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament, Verica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Marina Ristic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs, Verica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament, Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted the 4th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Filip Stanojevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Nenad Konstantinović, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Radet together submitted the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandra Belačić and Vjerica Rade. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 11 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandra Belačić and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic, Verica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Verica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Aleksandar Seselj submitted together to Article 15 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, the same text was submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Bozidar Delic, together with Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs of the Social Democratic Party group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 18 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Tomislav LJubenović and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Momcilo Mandić and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ruzica Nikolic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 23 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments Vjerica Radeta, Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Zoran Krasic submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Perić, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Marina Ristic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic - Đuričić. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party group submitted together to Article 28 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 31st Amendment were submitted together by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Vjerica Radeta and joint MPs of the Social Democratic Party group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs of the Social Democratic Party put together the title above Articles 32 and 32 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandra Belačić and Vjerica Rade submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group together submitted to the title above Articles 34 and 34 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to Article 34 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Democratic Party group together submitted their names above Articles 35 and 35 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlović, Vjerica Radeta and joint MPs of the Social Democratic Party group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Verica Radeta, Ruzica Niko and Zoran Krasic and together by MPs of the Social Democratic Party group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Perić, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted together to Article 37 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 38th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Dubravko Bojic and together by the Social Democratic Party. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 40th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Mariana Maras. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 28th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Sector Payments System. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic and joint MPs of the Social Democratic Party group and MPs of the Democratic Party group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In the same text, the MPs Dubravko Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic and the MPs of the Social Democratic Party together submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Ružica Nikolic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Zoran Krasic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In the same text, Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Seselj and Vjerica Radeta and the MPs of the Social Democratic Party together submitted to the 5th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) In the same text, Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Radeta and the MPs of the Social Democratic Party together submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Sreto Peric and Vjerica Radeta. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a review of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the proposal in principle, detail and general. We move to the 29th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Regulation of the Courts to be submitted jointly to Article 1 of the amendment by the MPs of the SDS Group. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Šulkic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the DS Group together submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs of the SDS group submitted together to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Thursday 14 December 2017, starting at 10.00 p.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017.
