ParlaMint-RS_2017-03-03-0.u14253	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Members of the People's Parliament, the esteemed Excellency, I am opening the Sixth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. (The People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party scandal: "Serbia, Russia, we don't need the Union") As you know, this special session I called for the National Assembly to be addressed by NJena Excellency, Mrs Federika Mogerini, High Representative of the EU for Foreign Policy and Security and Vice-President of the European Commission. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf, Njena Excellency, Mrs Federik Mogerini, and, besides her, to welcome the other members of the delegation. I am also honored to welcome the members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, as well as representatives of the diplomatic crust in the Republic of Serbia. And now I ask her Excellency, Mrs. Federico Mogerini, to speak to us, to take her word. Here you go, Excellency.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-03-03-0.u14254	Dear Members, it is my great honor to be in a country where I feel at home. Dear Prime Minister, dear ministers, dear ambassadors, dear friends, it is a great honor to be with you here today, here in the home of Serbian democracy. It is always an honor to address Parliament, given that I was an MP, I sometimes lack parliamentary dynamics, so it is good to have an opportunity, experience it and thank you for giving me such an opportunity. As we consider the future of the EU, my message to Serbia and the whole region is that in the future the EU will not be a Europe with 27 members because one Member State leaving the EU will enter another, a new EU member and Serbia will be one of them. I remember well that during my second visit to Belgrade, my first in this capacity, at the time of Prime Minister Vukic and I were standing before media representatives and that was 2015, and I made it clear then that we would open negotiating chapters that year, by the end of the year and many were skeptical. However, we did it thanks to your work, your determination, and I want to thank Parliament and the government and Prime Minister Vukic for the hard work, joint work and excellent results. (The People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party continue to scandal. ) The guidelines you have chosen for Serbia and the direction you are going is not only important for Serbia, but it is also important for millions of proud Serbs who have hope and your decisions here, because I suppose you are making your own decisions. Your decisions are important for the stability of the region, not only for the stability of the region, but for the entire contingent. Over the past few years, the direction Serbia has been moving is clear, it is taking a stable path towards the EU, achieving good results. Just a few days ago, at the beginning of this week, we opened two new chapters, after four chapters were opened last year and I know well that opening a chapter is not always what citizens expect, but it is really transferred to concrete measures of importance to the population, to your citizens in all areas, because you have taken brave and determined steps, on the way to your country's development, you see better than anyone else, the great potentials of this country and the Serbian people themselves. That's why you have the right to be ambitious. Today, I want to show you that we are ambitious too, my speech is very long, be prepared, because we care about Serbia, we care about its present and its future, because your present and your future are tied to the present and future of the EU. Not only are the EU doors wide open to Serbia, but we look forward to your association with our community, because it is a concrete project we are working on together. I believe our Union is incomplete, as long as Serbia and other Western Balkan countries are outside our family. This country and this region, in the heart of Europe, the history of Europe, has been written on this climate for centuries. A few hours ago, I learned that 18 emperors, Roman emperors, were born in this area and our relationships date back thousands of years ago. There are really important chapters in history written here. True, some of these chapters were the chapters of violence. But at the same time, this is the climate in which pioneer scientific endeavors have been achieved, and that is the history that needs to show that Serbia should be presented in a better way than this case and the history that should be respected, which is the history of art, literature, rights and freedom. This means that Serbia will become an EU member as soon as we can develop together. I can only mention one thing that makes Serbia part of our common past. Serbia came out with one of the first constitutions in Europe, back in 1835, which was based on the division of power and the protection of all citizens from the state. Our common future has deep roots, they are strong and it is based on common history, but I want to stress that it is also based on the strength of our existing relationships and needs for each other. The European Union is Serbia's major trading partner. Let's talk business. Serbia, also, is one of the EU's leading partners and two-thirds of exports and three-quarters of foreign investment comes from the EU, thus opening new jobs and new opportunities every day. (National MPs of the SRS continue to scandal. We have a really direct interest in deepening our co-operation and in fact our co-operation has intensified. When we worked on the EU Global Strategy for Foreign and Security Policy, my advisers, my team visited Serbia and Belgrade to hear what your priorities and expectations are because we want to plan together the future of the EU, because we know that you will be part of the EU. The challenges you face are the same ones we face, whether these are attempts to combat organised crime, manage migrant flows, ensure energy security or the overall security of our citizens. It's not idealism that teaches us that we're connected, it's realism, reality tells us that we need each other. This message is becoming even more important today at this delicate moment in which this region and the whole of Europe are located. The impressive progress of Serbia and the entire Western Balkans has been threatened by the growing sense of uncertainty in both the world and the region. We live in a fragile world that cares about change and the global balance of power changes. Sometimes it's not even clear where there's actually real power and the growing pressure that's in this delicate region. We can't take peace for granted anymore. Stability today requires greater investment for all of us because without peace, without reconciliation, progress in any other area will be compromised, primarily in the area of the economy. It was the original idea that led to the birth of a united Europe exactly 60 years ago. We will mark the 60th anniversary of the Roman treaty in a few days. After the bloodiest wars humanity has ever seen, after World War II, Europeans have realized that it would be much better for all of us to establish one regional economic co-operation, to work together, to work together, than to fight. The European Union was thus created, so it was born, so it was launched, as an economic project of co-operation, and then it became a peace project and was still one of the most successful peace projects in human history. The peoples of Italy, Germany and France realized that none of us could prosper in wartime, but that we could all benefit from peace and co-operation. Instead of fighting because of our border areas, we have turned these regions into centers of joint growth. Despite everything, it's still a success. To preserve growth and prosperity in this region, peace and stability are essential. We cannot stress enough how important Serbia is for regional stability. That is why I am particularly grateful to you, your government, your prime minister, your parliament, everyone for Serbia's continued commitment, integration with the EU, as well as regional co-operation and dialogue. However, our joint venture is uncertain. We know that the destabilisation of this region has prevented further development, economic development of this region, and I'm not sure that's what your people want. Why would you jeopardize progress if you worked so hard on this project? No one's gonna be happy if there's a new escalation, tension. There will be problems for all, and that is why we are investing so much energy in Belgrade and Pristina's dialogue and regional co-operation. The whole region is going through a very delicate moment. This country is no exception. If you think I'm gonna get tired, you're wrong, you're wrong, I won't. (The People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party continue to scandal) So the whole region is going through a very difficult moment. I know there's a long election campaign ahead of you, and maybe you should save some votes to address your citizens. Extreme polarisation and new ethnic tensions, I know it's difficult, but let me tell you that Serbia's role is crucial, not only for Serbia, but for all of us. You have great responsibility and she's in your hands. Serbia has always been at the crossroads of different worlds and these traditional labels of the East and the West have never been enough for your country. You didn't allow yourself to be simulated and one label attached to you. You've decided to defy traditional classifications. Your identity is both east and west, and at the same time unique. That's why you became, Serbia became one headquarters between worlds and cultures, in a constant dialogue with both sides, reaching beyond past and current division lines. I am convinced that Serbia will continue to use this wealth. Let me tell you that I see one very important place for Serbia and for this job within the EU, for its place in the EU, I see it in the EU. Europe is a global force today, and some people don't like it, but it's a reality. She is an uncertain player and a co-operative force in the international arena. We define our interests, our values and look for partners who share our principles and interests with us. Membership in our union is not, nor will there ever be a mere girlration of enmity towards anyone. We don't have politics against others. Now we're asking to get to the common denominators. We listen to each other. We build bridges. Our mentality is not based on blocks, nor on spheres of influence. We know that reality is much more complex, it's not black white, it's never been. We don't define our identity in relation to anyone else's identity. We are a Union that stands for peace, for democracy, for economic growth, for the rule of law. These are our objectives and that is what we want for our citizens in the EU and across Europe. I know that's what you want for your citizens. These are all the grounds for co-operation with our partners and the basic parts of our common agenda. When it comes to economic reform, Serbia achieves impressive results. Thanks to the reforms you have managed to implement, Serbia should continue to push changes forward and continue to implement changes, and the accession agenda offers instruments that will allow it to do so. Better services to all Serbian citizens will thus attract more investment from abroad and create new jobs. You are now entering an important election campaign, you have already entered, started the campaign, it is evident and the citizens of Serbia will have the opportunity to choose in a democratic way, rationally, listening to arguments, listening to facts and suggestions. Also, you will have the opportunity to choose your way to the future. The European Union looks forward to co-operation with the new president and government on the Serbian path to membership in the Union. At this very important moment in the history of this country, it is extremely important that all Serbian citizens join in the key decisions you will have to make. The role of parliament is extremely important here. You are a key link between citizens and institutions. You have an extremely important role to play. In the EU, we forgot to discuss the EU's rights to the benefits it provides to our citizens. (The People's MPs of the Serbian Radical Party continue to scandal. ) The whole process that we call the path to the European Union may sometimes sound too technical and sometimes abstract, but it is actually concrete, realistic and it really changes things, both in the business sphere and in the everyday life of our citizens. It's about improving the better state administration at all levels, the one that helps develop jobs and citizens, not the one that's holding them back. It's about a more independent judiciary in which businessmen, ordinary citizens, can trust a lot. It's about better relationships across Europe, so you can trade and place your products across Europe. I'm sure this is one agenda you can all support. Serbia has done so much in the last few years and now you can continue to work to really develop the country as citizens expect you to. You can be a stability partner in the Western Balkans region, and you can also help your country make progress on the road to the EU. You can truly become a member of the EU, a full member. I very much thank you for your attention and wish you a peaceful election campaign, fruitful work in parliament, and once again I thank you for your considerable honor and opportunity to address this wonderful Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-03-03-0.u14255	Dear Members, I thank Her Excellency on my personal behalf and on behalf of all MPs of the Republic of Serbia for her kind address. I am concluding the Sixth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. Thank you.
