ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18142	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the ninth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings today are attended by 153 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 161 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for today's work of the National Assembly. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today's session, in addition to the MPs and candidates for the members of the government, is being attended by representatives of the authorities of the Republic of Serbia and representatives of the diplomatic court in the Republic of Serbia, who will be monitoring the presentation today, or the exposé of the Prime Minister, Ms. Ana Brnabic. Let me, on your behalf and on your behalf, welcome our esteemed guests. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, due to the need for the National Assembly to elect a government within the time limit set by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you could see, for the ninth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, on the basis of Article 121(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have established the following Dn e n e d: The Government's choice and the oath of president and members of the Government. We're going to work on the agenda. Here you go, MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18143	Mrs. Gojkovic, article 88 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which he says - the President of the National Assembly opens the session and finds the number of MPs present on the basis of official records. If the president finds that at the beginning of the working day, at least 84 MPs are not present in the sitting room, the start of work shall be postponed by one hour. Today's session is scheduled for 10.00 hours. You have opened a session without any reason, which you have no right to, at 10:36 p.m. By doing so, you demean all the messengers of the people. You have humiliated the guests you have invited for half an hour and longer you have a diplomatic court waiting for you and those who wanted to attend this session. You humiliate those who are candidates here for Prime Minister and Minister. You have no right to do that. If there weren't enough MPs at 10:00, you had to stop it and postpone it by 11.00, so let's see if you got together, if you didn't, then it's delayed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure session for the next day. So no one has a right, if the session is scheduled at 10:00 a.m. that 35 minutes doesn't show up. If you had any urgent obligations, then you were obliged to send someone from the vice president. There were more of them. It was Mr. Marinkovic, it was Mrs. Radeta, it was Mr. Veroljub Arsic, I saw several of them. He was also Mr. Gjorge Milicevic. So there's no excuse for ever being late, and if you choose the government, then you'll admit that the number of possible justifications is still incomparably smaller.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18144	Thank you. None of what you've said corresponds to true truth, not even funny. The moment we were supposed to start a session of one of the ministers' candidates got sick, so I was dealing with this issue, not all of your observations about what I should do or not do. So, first of all, you have to jump up and say hop, not always blame someone because sometimes life has unpredictable circumstances. If you want to vote on it, we'll vote, if you think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure. You have received a proposal from the candidate for Prime Minister, which is in agreement with Article 112 paragraph 1 point 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, submitted by the President of the Republic, Mr Alexander Vukic. You received the consent of Ms. Ana Brnabic, a candidate for Prime Minister, to accept the candidacy in writing. Also, you received a proposal for a decision to elect a government with biographies for government members, submitted by Mrs Ana Brnabic, a candidate for Prime Minister. In this way, and in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Government and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the conditions have been met: that the candidate for Prime Ministers should present to the National Assembly a programme of the Government and propose the composition of the Government, to open a search for a candidate for the Prime Minister, a programme of candidates for the Prime Minister and candidates for members of the Government, to determine the number of Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers without portfolios in the Government, on a proposal from the candidate for Prime Minister, and to elect the Prime Minister, Vice-Presidents and Ministers, to appoint members of the Government before the National Assembly to take an oath. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18145	Madam President, I'd like to ask you to, in accordance with Article 101. At least try to allow us to conduct a serious debate today. We have Mrs. Brnabic's exposés, it would be fair to allow us to read it before you speak to us. Of course, it's up to you, you're making that decision, but we're choosing the government, let's at least be so serious that we're having an argument today. Give us that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18146	Thank you. I was just about to tell you this, but after the presentation, we're going to take a longer break so all MPs can read the exposés, except for the oral presentation of the prime minister. The People's Messenger Marko Djurisic has the word, and the People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18147	Dear President, under Article 97. Rules of Procedure, I would suggest we extend the time of the debate. The Rules of Procedure speak of five hours of debate in principle, and I would suggest, since the government of the Republic of Serbia is elected, on the importance of the topic and certainly the desire of a number of MPs to participate in the debate, that we have a better choice, that we double that time of debate and that more MPs can deliver their opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18148	I am voting on the proposal of MP Mark Djurisic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 59, against – no one, with abstentions, has joined the vote of 161 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted by MP Mark Djurisic. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18149	Mrs Gojkovic, you, as president of the National Assembly, under Rule 27, have the duty to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, you should never be angry at the fact that an MP has asked for his right to advertise the injury. The fact that there was a reasonable reason for being late, you had to let us know. As soon as she took Minister Antić's ambulance, what cost you to inform all MPs that we would be half an hour late for that? After all, when the evil minister, God forbid it happens to anyone else, then it's such an important state matter that we have to be informed, not kept secret that the minister is sick, so that you surprise us in the course of the assembly. Each one of us here can be sick, especially to the MPs when we see the proposed composition of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18150	Keep that for discussion. Thank you very much, I don't work in the yellow press, I didn't want to make a sensation out of it, MP, but next time don't God if you hurt any of you or I will personally inform the public of Serbia, don't worry about anything. Do you want us to vote on a member's injury? (Vojislav Seselj: I ask you to address me with a Messenger of the people, and never with a messenger. I will, MP. Do you want to vote on Article 27's injury? (Vojislav Seselj: No. ) I thank MP Vojislav Seselj for his understanding. I now ask Mrs. Ana Brnabic, candidate for Prime Minister, to present to the National Assembly a programme of government and propose its composition. The word has a candidate for Prime Minister Mrs. Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18151	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, your Excellency, dear friends, guests, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, today I stand here two years ago because I want to present to you the goals of the Serbian government in the coming period. It is important that we agree on priorities and make a social agreement on what we can do together and we need to achieve to bring Serbia into order of successful states. The time ahead will show how brave we are as society and individuals to move the borders together and step into the future for all of us, and I believe in the citizens and citizens of Serbia. Politics just got me out of business, out of love for Serbia, in which I returned 15 years ago in my best desire to do something for my country and for all citizens of Serbia. It is an honor to serve your country and to see it change for the better as a result of the work and efforts of all citizens. The time we live in is a lot of challenges. We must respond to these challenges courageously, resolutely, and with a clear vision of where we are going. I want to start by looking at the intense public debate that followed my appointment as prime minister. I believe a lot of people were wondering why I wasn't answering, and I want to answer now that it was my answer. I had a goal in front of me, and today I stand here, in front of those who supported me, and in front of those who challenged me, responsiblely and proudly expose the government's programme, because I am sure that this government will have results that neither those who spoke of me with ridicule will be able to disobey. We can build our vision on the basis of the foundation set by the previous government. Today when I present to you a programme for the next government and ask for the support of the National Assembly and citizens of Serbia, the state register is in good shape, the macroeconomic indicators are positive. We find surpluses in the budget, inflation within the envisaged borders and a trend in public debt cuts and balance of payments deficits. No government in the last ten years has started a mandate with such a good state in the budget as this one, which, if voted by most MPs, I will lead. I must thank the previous government and its President, Alexander Vukic. On the other hand, my responsibility to the state and to the citizens is even greater. The previous government actually managed to stop the bankruptcy of the state, from which only a few years ago it divided us only three months ago. The government managed to consolidate the state budget and reduce the deficit Serbia had been struggling with for years before. In the last three years, Serbia's rating has been significantly corrected on the World Bank's "duing business" list in which, under general conditions of business, we are taking the 47th position of 190 countries in the world. In two years we've managed to make progress on this list for as many as 44 places. A comprehensive and comprehensive reform of the state administration aimed at transforming the state into a service of citizens, improving the efficiency of the work of civil servants, simplifying administrative procedures and a cheaper state has been launched. The basis for the establishment of electronic administrations in full capacity has been laid. I will also remind myself that the infrastructure works have been launched and that more miles of roads have been built in recent years than decades before. Good infrastructure is a condition for increasing investment and launching local economic development. It provides an opportunity for even regional development. We must not forget that in early 2014, Serbia started negotiations on EU membership and that even ten negotiating chapters have been opened so far. The pillar of this dialogue is a national convention for the EU, a platform that brings together more than 700 civil society organisations, confirming that a broad consensus has been established for EU accession. Now is the time to go one step further and translate our society, our state and our economy into the 21st century marked by digitization. Digitalization is a profound transformation of the way we produce, spend, learn, work and exchange. Our entire social organization and society as we know it will be fully redefined due to digitization. Serbia must be prepared for this, because if we do not take the chance now, we will hardly get another chance again. Digitalisation opens new opportunities for better quality citizens' lives through more services, cheaper services, more accessible information and knowledge, human integration. Although it is often related to technique, digitization is much more than that. It provides a chance for new jobs that are better paid. Digitalization can increase our exports, and most importantly, it is an opportunity to stop the brain drain now and even reverse that trend. I'm saying this based on the experience of our most successful IT companies and the creative industry, which in practice showed us how digitization triggered the wheel of change. In agriculture, digitisation creates additional value and thus increases our export potential and joins Serbia with countries that export products with higher levels of value. Despite an offensive opinion, I assure you that our citizens are ready for a new digital era. According to the latest survey by the World Economic Forum, Serbia is in the world's top third country at the level of technological readiness and the number of citizens using the Internet. Practically all our companies have internet access. So both citizens and businesses have a habit of using the Internet. At the same time, bureaucracy is the one recognised as one of the biggest problems of Serbian society, which spends huge resources and state and all of our citizens. Domestic companies can be even more efficient using all the benefits of new technologies. This government will work to change the existing paradigm and way of thinking in every segment of society. With the fourth industrial, or digital revolution, we have a chance to catch up with developed countries. This technological revolution will fundamentally change our lives. She's inevitable and unstoppable. Only the winning societies go to meet with change and do not despise them. I deeply believe that Serbia is ready to lead the entire region in changes that follow and create new opportunities for all. With great certainty, I expect that the digitisation process will improve the standard and quality of life of hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens. It will increase efficiency, reduce costs, create new values in almost all areas of life and work. The digitalisation process is the most important catalyst of innovation, component and growth. They repeat once again that what we now do in the field of digitisation will determine Serbia's place on the world mafia in the years and decades to come. The role of the state should be to stimulate and allow an open, dynamic economy, to develop infrastructure, to provide as high-quality and cost-effective services as possible, to remove administrative barriers, to encourage, support and legally protect any enterprise initiative with a responsible and well-established social policy in line with economic opportunities. My mission is to modernise our society in all segments. By working on digitization, we will create a society that gives equal chances to all its citizens. This government has a good basis which has set the previous one and I will lead it by keeping focus on the objectives set, and at the top of my list of priorities will be digitisation and will be education. We need to improve our education system and that will be my second most important priority in this term. This means that we will encourage analytical thinking aimed at solving problems and finding solutions. We'll work to change the way we think about what's holding creativity back. It is important for young generations to make sure that they do not give up on the first obstacle, to fight for ideas, for jobs, to believe in themselves and to meet their ambitions. We'll cultivate an entrepreneurial spirit in young people. This does not mean that everyone should be entrepreneurs, but that we will teach them to think victoriously and to meet opportunities. This is the way of thinking that led me when I made a decision last summer, which I am proud of, and accepted the invitation of Alexander Vukic to enter the government, although I had never worked in the state administration before. We all must together create a society where knowledge is valued, because knowledge is the greatest value of the 21st century. The moment we finish schooling today half of our knowledge has already been overcome and we have to continue with education and learning. This century gives priority to all who want to learn and who have no resistance to change. We young generations should be encouraged to adopt newspapers, and older citizens should all be encouraged together to use modern technologies and be part of the lives of their children and grandchildren. A team in the government will work in Serbia's best interest. I believe this government will be able to respond to the many challenges that await us. As Prime Minister, I will encourage dialogue as a way to make good decisions for Serbia. I want to point out that every proposal, every idea, every constructive solution will come to an open door, and then we as a team will perform, uniquely, when it is necessary to defend our views and explain the decisions we have made. I invite you all to join in working together to build a better future and a better life for all of us. However, certainly as Prime Minister, the greatest responsibility will be on me. I won't hide behind my associates. I will report to the public on our results on a regular basis. I will encourage constructive criticism aimed at finding a solution. I'll do my best not to fall into a trap to think that I have a pre-ready answer for everything. Despite insults in public speech that have already been addressed to me in recent days and that I can expect in the future, I will defend the truth and the facts with dignity and dignity. The government's biggest challenges will be the continuation of economic reform and the acceleration of economic growth, balanced foreign policy, the continuation of state reform through the modernisation of labour and the more efficient work of civil servants, of which I expect to serve citizens. Education and attracting experts instead of brain drains and establishing partnerships between all segments of society and involving the civil sector in social initiatives. I will stand for inclusion, because only if we accept diversity as a virtue do we have a chance to build a society of equal individuals. I want to send a message that this country has a great cultural heritage. I want us to build a new cultural policy on it together. It's not just a bomb phrase. We'll start with seemingly small things that when they're finished will be big and significant for the whole society. I'm aware that these are the challenges that many would resist, but we must have great goals and work hard and committed to make this step for all of us and for all the generations to come. We are as responsible to them as our ancestors were to us. Dedication, determination, openness, and courage of value are on which my work will be based. I invite you all to join me to leave the remains of the past where they belong, in the past. I look to the future, because now is the moment when we can do the right things, without delay, without waiting and, most importantly, without excuses. Now I'm going to give you more detail on the specific areas in which this government is going to work. In each area, I will set out the most important tasks and goals that we need to achieve in order to achieve the change that we need. My presentation is a summary of the exposés containing much more concrete data. This government will focus on speeding up economic growth and starting with finance. Due to the high cost of borrowing in the past only in 2016, we paid over a billion euros on interest payments. To better understand how much money I'm talking about here, I'm going to point out that this money can build a 100-mile highway every year. It is only since 2018 that we can expect to reduce these costs that come to us due to the poor management of public finances in the past. It is important to maintain in public finances the order introduced by the previous government and that the government is planning its revenues and expenditures well today. Citizens recognized the importance of such measures, themselves endured the greatest burden of savings, recognising that denials are once the only way to create a basis for sustainable growth. These efforts by citizens and the Serbian government are recognised by the IMF, the World Bank and other international financial institutions. We've successfully gone through six review arrangements with the IMF, and now we're going through the seventh. I want to point out that at the end of this year, we are successfully completing a three-year arrangement with the IMF. The government plans to continue rigorous control of spending money and maintain fiscal discipline and accountability in managing public finances. Our goal is to keep the general government deficit below 1% by 2019. This brings us to the ranks of the most responsible countries. With further GDP growth and low deficit, we plan to lower public debt levels below 60% of GDP by the end of this government's mandate. This would create additional space to increase wages and pensions, new investment in infrastructure or even early repayment of loans, which would further speed up public debt cuts. All of this is possible only if we all engage and engage. It's important that we act uniquely, because society is stronger than an individual, who can't do it alone or who can do it very little. More importantly, I'm asking for your support to modernise the state and leave the bureaucratic way of thinking forever. In order to achieve the objectives outlined, we need to implement a programme of public finance management reform. These reforms include better public revenue collection, strengthening public debt management capacities, improving budget planning and other measures. One of the major items is the empowerment of the tax administration, which will increase tax collection and ensure fair competition for entrepreneurs and companies operating under the law. Let us not forget that our schools, hospitals, playgrounds and infrastructures are funded from the tax paid. The reduction in taxes and contributions and the increase in wages in the public sector is directly linked to better governance of public finances. I'm sure the finance minister will be committed to implementing the reforms already, because public finances are the vessels of every country's economic system. We plan to raise salaries in the public sector, as well as reduce the burden on employers, but we can still spend as much as we have. That's what the finance minister knows best. In this part, I'm going to rely on him a lot. In order to ensure economic growth, we need to finish the projects that we have provided funding for. A journey that isn't finished doesn't bring money to the budget. Also, even in a hospital that's 90% finished, people can't be treated. Every day of delay means not only delaying and providing services, but also losing money that would be in the budget if the project had been completed. This is a tough job waiting for us. But we don't take them away from their problems, we take them as rational and responsible people who lead the country one step at a time, one step at a time, no breaks, and no delays. In the years ahead, we expect real GDP growth of at least 3.5% a year. This growth, and this is very important, will be based on investment growth, increased exports of goods and services, especially goods and high value services, as well as a reduction in the share of public expenditure and current transactions deficits in GDP. For sustainable economic stability and economic growth in years ahead of us, a continuation of economic restructuring, in particular the public sector, further improving the business environment, as well as maintaining political stability, continues to bring the EU closer. The digitisation of our economy is a key lever that will speed up economic growth and pull the development of society as a whole. For the government responsible, it's not a matter of choice. It's a necessity to which we will approach immediately. Here I must highlight the enormous export potential of our IT industry. It is one of the largest sectors in Serbia and one of the fastest growing sectors, more than 10% annually, while within it the software and services industry has a growth of over 20% each year. The net exports of the IT sector today amount to more than 400m euros per year. The government's goal is to increase exports to 1.5 billion euros annually by five years. IT sector employees are on average six times more profitable in the rest of the economy, with half the resources needed. Due to all of the above, the human potentials in IT are not only fully exploited, we are facing a lack of qualified personnel, which slows further growth. It is estimated that nearly 15,000 IT experts are not sufficient in Serbia, with a tendency to increase the number. That is why one of my priorities is to allow their number to increase in Serbia, which will contribute to the development of the economy and allow Serbia to catch up with the fourth industrial revolution. A key prerequisite for this is quality and efficient education. The comprehensive reform we are talking about today should be based on the concept of celibacy learning, in all aspects and levels of education, increasing the availability of education, modernising curricula and programmes, as well as creating an education system according to the needs of society and economy. Education should encourage innovation, critical thinking, entrepreneurship and provide young people with the necessary skills to be globally competitive, which is a key driver of development. We're going to introduce concept learning models. We're going to encourage children to acquire functional, applicable knowledge, instead of learning information in their minds, which they can't apply, which they can't even apply. We encourage them to think. It's important that we restore public trust in the education system. Two very important elements in raising education and adapting to the modern era are dual and entrepreneurial education. Although I can understand fears that could be heard about dual education, it is time to clarify that dual education does not create cheap labour. It represents a better integration of economy and education at all levels and introduces practice in theoretical education. In this way we prepare both students and students during education to work in the economy. Co-operation of colleges with companies would allow students to realise project ideas and their later employment in companies that implement these projects. I would be very pleased that for the education sector we may have a slightly higher focus and as I read the future proposal for the Serbian government's work. Entrepreneurship is a developmental element, especially in societies with a small population like ours. It's more than a teaching class. Entrepreneurship is a attitude, a way, a relationship to life. Our strategic development must be based on human capital and on the development of entrepreneurial competences with a greater number of members of society. I stress that entrepreneurial competence is recognised as one of the eight skills necessary for living and working in a 21st-century knowledge society. So we'll have a generation of people ready to take responsibility and create their jobs. The introduction of information as a mandatory class of the fifth grade of primary school was one of the priorities of the previous government and the Ministry of Education and we succeeded. The course will be conducted according to modern curricula that will require students to learn the basics of programming and algorithmic analytical thinking, which will enable them to make any call they choose to deal with in the future. By strengthening information programmes and schools' capacities, we train generations in Serbia during which we live and prepare them for the future. In order to animate children for learning programming, robotics and automation in more than 340 schools, learning robots are provided. We'll continue this project anyway. Others, equally important, are pre-conditional digitally competent teachers who use information technologies for teaching, administration and professional training without fear or resistance. The Ministry of Education adopted the framework for digital competences of teachers and since September the training of directors, teachers and professional associates has been on three levels of digital maturity. We will continue with a retraining programme for information technologies, which will allow at least 1,000 citizens of Serbia to be requalified annually, through intensive courses, to the level of junior programmers and start a new career in IT industry. In line with the growth of IT industry, we expect to expand the capacities of our programmes in the coming years. We'll also provide education for our senior citizens and use computers in nursing homes. It is crucial that new knowledge be available to everyone and we will encourage young people to teach older generations about Internet use, thus including them more in the community. The number of employees has increased. An additional space has been provided for technical colleges, which are one of the key factors in the digitisation of society and in catching connections with the fourth industrial revolution. Registration quotas, for this entry period, for the academic year starting in the autumn of this year, increased by more than 20% compared to the previous year. In order to make higher education even more effective, it is crucial to enable the way in which college funding is financed, based on a performance model, not on the number of students enrolled. The opening of opportunities for experts from the economy to be guest lecturers at universities will allow for even better integration with the economy and the acquisition of practical knowledge. The previous government has launched capital investment projects aimed at improving higher education infrastructure and the future government will continue this way. Raising the competitiveness of science, research and innovation in the function of economic development is one of the government's priority objectives. It is very important to involve educational institutions in EU programmes and projects and to improve general co-operation with foreign educational institutions. We all have to learn about examples of the Faculty of Organizational Sciences from Belgrade, or the Faculty of Technical Sciences from Novi Sad, as well as the BioSense Institute in Novi Sad, the Institute of Physics in Belgrade, which managed to provide significant funds from international funds, achieve world-renowned results and thus position Serbia as a country that encourages the development of an innovative industry. The state is also working intensively to create infrastructure for the integration of science and business, the development of new technologies and modern business. We give significant support to the science and technology park in Belgrade in Starar, we build scientific and technological parks in Novi Sad and Nis. Serbia continues to lack experienced figures with contemporary knowledge that are the key to our companies being globally competitive. We must seek them abroad, but one great chance is to attract our citizens, whom there are many in the world, and there as a society we can do much. Another possibility is to create an environment that will be desirable for scientists and engineers from all over the world to come here, to develop new technologies right from Serbia. In addition to quality education, the economic growth we are planning is an extremely important environment in which our companies operate. We need to modernise, as a future government, a whole set of laws to open new opportunities in the economy, eliminate administrative barriers and increase efficiency. In that sense, we need to simplify cross-border business with free flow of people, data, goods and money between Serbia and the world. The legal framework should not be an obstacle to innovation. It is necessary to identify new ways of organisation of companies, new business models, such as the sharing economy, business changes that bring new technologies, such as distributed databases, etc. Blockchain, as well as new ways of working more and more people, both in Serbia and the world. The vision of this government is the development of knowledge-based entrepreneurship and innovation. According to a report by the World Economic Forum, Serbia took 119 out of 138 places with a degree of sophistication of the production process. We need to do a lot of work to make progress and start producing and exporting products, a higher level of processing that has a higher market value. The great potential of rapid economic development is in the digitisation of traditional branches of the economy. One of the largest areas for the application of new technologies is agriculture where technologies, such as drones, sensors, large amounts of data analysis, process automation, etc., make food production healthier, more efficient, cheaper and safer. Technology is making great progress in medicine, in construction, in energy and in other areas of great importance for the everyday life of citizens. Technology in the 21st century is more accessible than before. As a society, we must go to meet changes that will speed up our accession to developed economies. Lack of a legal framework for investment in capital and early-stage investments is a major obstacle for many newly created companies in Serbia. The state can help by enabling the business of modern sources of funding, such as the funds of entrepreneurial capital, microfinance or mass financing, etc. Crowdfunding. It is also necessary to motivate successful business people of Serbia to invest in innovative businesses. In this way, domestic capital will increase more efficiently, and innovative entrepreneurs will have more sources of funding. It is necessary to improve the information of entrepreneurs on available sources of funding, such as COSME, Horizon 2020, a programme for the development of enterprises and innovation of the Western Balkans. We will try to separate even bigger funds from Serbia's budget for an innovation fund to increase support for innovation companies, according to the reputation of Israel, which has thus become one of the most advanced countries in the world. The quality of local suppliers to foreign companies operating in Serbia is also particularly important. Our goal is for each foreign investor to hire local companies as contractors and subcontractors. The government will work to empower domestic firms to meet the requirements and standards of foreign investors. The government will also support women's entrepreneurship, youth entrepreneurship and social entrepreneurship. Serbia currently has several companies that are global leaders. We want to promote their promotion and encourage others to follow in their footsteps. For example. One of our IT companies has been officially named one of the world's 50 smartest companies. These companies, these young people who work in them, have, through similar examples, shown that success is possible. Successful entrepreneurs must receive the social recognition and support they have in the most developed countries. Being successful is not an easily available goal, and that is why more is why we encourage successful entrepreneurs to strengthen and increase their business systems. We will strongly continue the process of restructuring and rationalising public enterprises through optimisation of the number of employees, resolving the issues of accumulated debts and not the collection of claims from earlier years. Subsidies to public enterprises have been reduced, and the government has strictly limited, with the aim of strengthening financial discipline, issuing new guarantees and loans used in earlier years to secure current liquidity. Of the 17 strategically important state-owned enterprises, ten have already been resolved, and currently the remaining seven are being resolved. This will have a positive impact on public finances, as budget support for large-loss enterprises will be lower. Major progress has been made in the area of road infrastructure. We are ending the construction of Corridor 10, worth more than one billion euros. The remaining shares will end in the first half of next year. By the end of this year we will have more than 102 km of highway on the way from Obrenovac to Preljin. We will try to make maximum use of EU grants to finance infrastructure projects, especially those that bring regional co-operation. The government will work intensively to strengthen regional co-operation through linking the infrastructure network with countries in the region. So far, we've rehabilitated nearly 200km of roads across Serbia, and we're just about to get a big job, and we still have 900km of roads to rehabilitate over the next few years. Project documentation, for all 900 km, is being prepared or under procurement procedure. By the end of this year, it will begin with maintaining 3,000 km of roads in the most economically efficient way, and we plan to transfer the entire national network of all 16,000 km of roads to this kind of maintenance. This is a huge step forward compared to the practice so far. Serbia's connection with the rest of the world rests on the ongoing improvement and expansion of the capacity of our railway network. We opened the railway market for domestic and foreign carriers, which is very important for regional integration and economic co-operation. During this year, we will begin modernising the Belgrade-Budapest railway. Serbia has laid the groundwork to become a regional leader in the area of air traffic. Total air sector revenues increased by about 70% compared to earlier years. More than 30 air traffic agreements have been signed and ratified, the most significant with the United States, Canada, China and South Korea. To ensure further traffic growth and new jobs at the "Nikola Tesla" Airport, and to increase competition in air traffic, we will enter a concession arrangement that will directly benefit the Republic of Serbia's budget of hundreds of millions of euros. The closure of this transaction is expected in March 2018. In the agriculture sector, we have a large potential that we need to capitalise on improving productivity of production, more intensive use of modern technology, and by focusing on exporting a higher level of processing, instead of exporting raw materials that are the cheapest. We will invest in capital systems of irrigation, 14 of which are 11 systems in Vojvodina, and three in central Serbia. We will also continue to invest in dams with accumulation and reconstruction of water objects. We will also amend the Agricultural Land Act, thus making it impossible to fully liberalise the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. All these changes will be in line with the parallel solutions of countries that have joined the EU for the last two decades. At the end of the year, we end up with accreditation for the use of EU pre-accession funds for rural development, so-called "Rural Development". IPARD funds. We will prepare agriculture institutions for Serbia's entry into the EU. Mining, as an economic branch, generates highly-paid, well-paid jobs, which are significantly higher than the country's average. Mining contributes to national, regional and local development, and it certainly increases tax revenues. Significant capital investments that monitor the opening of the mines could especially help undeveloped parts of Serbia, in which large ore reserves are registered and thus strengthen regional development. For example, Jadar is ranked as one of the largest beds of lithium in the world that can meet most of the world's needs for this ore. That is why mining will certainly be a significant segment of the government's focus of the Republic of Serbia. The improvement of the energy sector is important because it provides greater stability, security and better position for Serbia in the world, in complex geopolitical circumstances. In order to respond to the domestic and international challenges of the energy sector, we need to improve it in a way that will improve the lives of our citizens and the impact of our economy. I would like to point out that we are still one of the cheapest electricity markets in Europe. We will seek to consolidate some of our state-owned enterprises in the energy and mining sector and increase revenues from our existing energy infrastructure. Energy from renewable sources is very important to ensure the country's energy security and we will work to increase the participation of renewable sources in the country's energy system. We will continue construction of the Trans-Balkan Corridor project, which will increase security of supply in Serbia and contribute to its long-term energy security. In areas where there are huge potentials, and undeserved are the least spoken of by tourism, creative industry and culture. Thanks to our extremely talented and creative people, a uniquely diverse culture, beautiful areas, historical heritage, these works provide enormous opportunities, both for economic development, increased foreign exchange inflow and employment, and for the promotion of Serbia worldwide. The Serbian government aims to increase the number of tourists from 2.7 million in 2016 to 3.7 million in 2020, with a projected foreign exchange inflow of $2.5 billion in tourism. I would especially point out the importance of congress tourism. Serbia has jumped 25 seats in the world's list of congress destinations in the last ten years and is now 48th in place. The government's orientation will be to bring meetings of world organisations to Serbia, not only in Belgrade, but also in other congress centres such as Novi Sad, Subotica, Arangelovac, Vrdnik, Kopalnik and Nis. To promote our country, as a tourist destination, a major contribution is made to the film and TV production industry. Films, shows and commercials, coming from America, Europe and India, allow our areas to see dozens of millions of people around the world. We will support the incentive program, which has produced excellent results. We'll work on training our film workers, because we'll need more professionals. We'll look for investors for additional film studies. Incentives are also intended for domestic film and TV productions. In accordance with the time in which we live, we will support the development of new media, such as virtual reality, visual effects and digital entertainment, for which there are already huge capacities and space for even greater development in our country. For more than ten years, the two largest and most significant museums have been closed. It's the National Museum and the Museum of Contemporary Art. I will do my best, along with my team, to have these two capital projects of invaluable importance finally completed in the term of office of this government. It is important for me to stress that all institutions of culture and all institutions of national importance must have mandatory special programmes for children and the youngest. So we will build generations that will be creative, widely educated, have developed critical thought and be a number of necessary audiences for all kinds of artistic and creative creativity. A modern, efficient, cheap public administration is a prerequisite for achieving all the goals I set. Modernising the public administration makes it a real service for citizens and businesses. The state must be aware that the real government is in the hands of tax-paying citizens and thus providing salaries to civil servants. The digitisation of the state administration and the provision of electronic services that citizens will use in a simple and fast way remains one of my priorities. The electronic administration is increasing efficiency, reducing bureaucratic procedures and eliminating corruption. Through the digitisation of procedures, we have made it possible since 1 June of this year to make 6.7 million documents a year, issued in paper form, available electronically and easily to officials who will simply complete procedures for citizens and businesses. With these, we save citizens more than six million hours of waiting in line on counters and about 245 million dinars a year that have so far been paid to various taxes. The first step is to improve official records. A promotion of the address register follows, which means that each street will finally be named in Serbia and each house will be numbered. By establishing a population register, data to form a single polling list will be accurate, will be updated automatically, thus significantly improving the electoral process. This is how we introduce order and common sense into the state administration. We are about to adopt laws on electronic signatures, electronic documents and trust services, as well as harmonising all other regulations with this law, in order to change the current practice in which more than 100 regulations provide for the necessary use of the paper document. On the case of one bank alone, more than 10 million documents were found to be printed annually. More than seven million documents are being scanned. The growing companies spend hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros archiving documents in the 21st century in Serbia. We will change this and so quickly and significantly further improve Serbia's competitiveness. For the full establishment of the electronic administration, the prerequisite is the introduction of an electronic payment to the state. You can pay all the services today by cell phone from your bank account. All you have to do is pay the state's taxes and obligations on the counter, to wait in line for the bank or the mail. After that, you have to go back to the public authorities' counter and deliver a payment card. Enabling these payments through e-banking is one of the key priorities for the Serbian government and in these efforts, the finance ministry and the Treasury Administration will be one of the bearers of the reform that needs to be implemented. The company law unequivocally prescribes that there is no obligation to use the seal unless it is prescribed by law. However, today there are more than 70 different rules and sublegal acts which are not harmonised and which still require the use of the seal. This problem will be solved as soon as possible, and the seal will once and for all be sent to history. We can't go to the 21st century with stamps, counters and papers. Public availability of data is one of the main drivers of innovation, as open data fosters economic growth, makes public administration more efficient, enables more quality services for citizens, reduces corruption space and increases citizens' confidence in their country. The European Commission estimates that the opening of data will create a market worth 40 billion euros annually. In the current process of rationalisation in the public sector, it has been taken into account that surplus employees are sought only where they are located, at the same time to preserve key functions and the business of the state. We have banned the reduction of the number of medical staff, employees in social protection institutions, jobs and capacities that are important for European integration, as well as those employed in inspection services. Today, Serbia across Europe is one of the countries with the least public administration employees compared to the number of inhabitants. Today in Serbia, we have 6.4 public administration employees per 100 inhabitants, while the EU average is 8.5. The biggest challenge for us is for public officials to be efficient and focused on citizens. The government's priorities in the coming period are more efficient and cheaper services to citizens. Next year, we will also set up a national academy for professional training in public administration. The new system of professional training will have a foothold in competences that civil servants will have to possess in order to carry out tasks in a modern and efficient manner. Certainly the biggest change the academy will bring is the education of public officials at national and local level and the compulsory education of officials. We continue with the reform of labour legislation. The adoption of new laws will allow about 60,000 employees through agencies to have the same rights as employees on other grounds. Legalization of seasonal works where more than 300,000 employees will be introduced into legal economic flows in agriculture alone. Improving the citizens' standard of living and reducing unemployment through the exercise of public interest and the activation of special categories of unemployed persons. We'll establish a more flexible pay system. We will enable the award of institutions that are responsible for resources, as well as employees who contribute most to the improvement of the work of institutions, but where there are greater rights there is greater responsibility. The executives will have to be more careful and more responsible to dispose of the funds, while employees, except for the opportunity to be creators of their own destiny, will have to focus on the results and satisfaction of citizens. Our goal is to value education, because the state wants to attract, and then through the progression system, retain talented, valuable and educated personnel. It is also extremely important to continue a decisive fight against organised crime and corruption, especially to raise police capacity to prevent possible terrorist attacks, prevent trafficking and trafficking in human beings, as well as to combat high-tech crime. The fight against organised crime, financial crime and corruption implies a swift and effective criminal procedure. The previous government has already taken key legislative measures in this direction and we will continue these measures. Preparation for their application is under way, and the overall reform begins on 1 March 2018. The introduction of specialisation of criminal courts in the areas of customs, budgetary and infringements is planned on the basis of violation reports of independent bodies. Also planned is work to further improve criminal-processing legislation aimed at strengthening the procedural powers of the public prosecutor's office in the investigation and other stages of the criminal proceedings. In the next period, we will also improve the work of the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, increasing the quality and speed of data exchange between state authorities. In order to combat corruption, capacity to conduct investigations into criminal acts with elements of corruption will be strengthened. The adoption of a new law on police introduced a different concept of the work of the Ministry of the Interior, namely the work of the police in the community and the partnership with the citizens, which we will continue to develop in the coming period. The strategic objectives of judicial reform are discharging courts, speeding up the process and informing citizens about different options for dispute resolution. In 2016, the number of old executive cases in courts was reduced by nearly nine hundred thousand compared to the previous year and the trend will continue. We will continue to further improve judicial infrastructure, such as the construction of the Palace of Justice in Kragujevac and reconstruction of the Court of Justice in Belgrade. An increase in legal certainty without any doubt will positively affect Serbia's position on the World Bank's "duing business" list. When it comes to national security, I want to say that real national security cannot be achieved solely by strong military forces. It also calls for strong diplomacy, intensive intelligence work, strong economy, fiscal discipline and an effective government that will above all be necessary to support the president of the Republic his rich experience in the field of foreign and military policy. We will also remain committed to implementing measures taken to strengthen Serbia's defence industry, as well as to participation in multinational operations under the mandate of the UN and the EU. The Republic of Serbia remains committed to the engagement and partnership programme for peace. One of our priorities will be working with international institutions and a more comprehensive approach to management of natural disasters, starting with the capacity to recover and manage climate risks. Serbia's government will continue to be deeply committed to the issue of minority rights. I want to make it clear that the surrender remains committed to the engagement and partnership programme for peace. I want to make it clear, before the Assembly and all citizens of Serbia, that I am very proud of how much we have achieved in the legislative, strategic and institutional sense regarding the protection of the rights of national minorities. In Serbia, and this is really important to me because of all Serbian citizens, let me say, more than 20 ethnic or national groups live in Serbia, more than anywhere else in Europe. Children are educated in 15 different languages, as many as 11 languages are officially used in Serbia. Together we should be proud of the diversity and tolerance that are part of our societies. That's one reason for every society's pride. Although the focus of the future government is on economic development and availability and modernisation of services, we must encourage solidarity with those living in difficult living conditions, which are excluded, poor and whose protection services are not always available. In the area of social protection, we will put an accent on improving the adequateness, quality and target of social protection. For the first time in Serbia, we will introduce an integrated system of making social cards, by connecting a large number of different institutions. The introduction of social cards will prevent abuse and ensure a fairer distribution of social assistance. We have started and will complete and resolve the issue of maternity benefits, which carry out their own work, so that all the foster parents will receive compensation for maternity leave on the basis of the contributions paid. Priorities for improving the position of persons with disabilities are employment, creating new training programmes, education, improving the accessibility of public purpose facilities, access to services and social protection. We'll work on providing better services to mothers who need to be entitled to leave work, for special care of the child. We have ready and measures for greater use of leave from work based on the birth and care of the child by the fathers, by the reputation of the Scandinavian countries. This is also being complemented by an incentive policy of concern for birth, and this government will continue to apply a special population policy. Serbia has become the first non-EU country to introduce a gender equality index. For the past three years, we've managed to stop the health payload. We are now continuing to reform the health system by further applying an integrated health information system which will significantly improve the work of pharmacists and doctors and facilitate the use of therapy primarily in chronic patients. One of the top priorities is the reconstruction and construction of four clinical centres in Serbia, for which an investment of about 25 billion dinars is planned. The Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure and the Public Investment Management Office are planned to start implementing projects for the reconstruction, construction and equipment of seven major health institutions this year. These are the University Children's Clinic "Tirsova", the KBC "Dragisa Misović", the Emergency Centre and the Gynaecology and Accumulation Clinic. All within KCS, as well as the Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases “Dededenje”, the clinic for neurosurgery KCS and KBC Zemun, the pediatrics department. We will also finish our work at KCN Cardiosurgery Clinic, which started working in November 2014 as one of the most modern clinics in the region. We will continue to adapt and resuscitate a network of 201 health institutions that we started in 2015. We continue the employment policy of young medical workers and the approval of specializations. We will continue to work on reducing the waiting list and repealing them by the end of the term of office of this government. We'll continue to invest in the equipment. Serbia will be the only country in the world that allows its citizens free interventions on state-of-the-art equipment, such as a gamma knife and a cyber knife. Sport always makes us proud and represents one of the areas that continuously brings us positive results. We must preserve the epithet of the country's sport. In order for the results to continue to decline, it is extremely important that we constantly invest in the modernisation of sports and make it available to all segments of society. With good economic results and stable economic growth, we will be able to invest more and more in protecting the environment. Improving air quality, reducing harmful emissions, waste management and waste water are some of the priority areas to deal with, and this is one of the reasons why we now have the Ministry of Environmental Protection. All of this is confirmed by our strategic orientation towards the EU, which is the values we stand for. These are innovation, creativity, knowledge and all the overall modernisation that leads to higher standard and quality of life. By the end of 2021, the EU is expected to provide a one-billion-euro grant to Serbia. It is of great importance that these funds are used successfully. At local, or municipal and regional level, we will do even more to increase the visibility of pre-accession funds, to increase the use of these funds for overall local and regional development. After the formation of the new government, we will work to adopt a large number of regulations that bring domestic legislation into line with the EU's legal assets and provide financial resources and an institutional framework for their application. As in the previous period, focus will be on strengthening the international position and reputation of the Republic of Serbia, on intensifying bilateral dialogue and co-operation with countries around the world. Only dialogue provides stability and a basis for further growth, which we seek now and immediately. In these efforts, I expect great support from the president of the Republic of Serbia, given its constitutional powers, and above all based on the state experience and reputation that enjoys the world. We will also follow politics, a policy that involves building the best relations with the Russian people and their state leadership. In the last few years, we have managed to build warm and friendly relations with China and plan to further strengthen them. We have established new relations with India, and we have improved relations with Japan, South Korea, Australia and the Ocean and South America. With the United States, we will continue to build up better relations in all segments, as well as develop good relations with other peoples and countries around the world. We have come a long way to establish good neighbourly relations with the former Yugoslav republics, and that is where Serbia played a key role. Serbia should continue to be a loud advocate and leader of strong alliances in the political, economic and cultural development of the Western Balkans region. On today, the great Serbian holiday Vidovdan, I would like to order that we continue the policy of peace and co-operation in Kosovo and Metohija, with the aim of reaching a historic compromise and reconciliation of the Serbian and Albanian people. The goal is to preserve political stability in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija by implementing established state policy, by continuing negotiations with the temporary institutions of self-government in Pristina, improving economic development, living conditions and economic empowerment of the Serb population in Kosovo and Metohija and continuing to support sustainable return. It is necessary to establish an urgent community of Serb municipalities in the way envisaged by the first agreement and the general principles of 2015. And again, in all these processes, I count on the support of the president of the state, as well as the first Deputy Prime Minister, who has long-standing political experience. Because I believe that only teamwork can bring results and move us all forward. I want to tell all citizens and citizens of Serbia in the end that real changes don't only happen when the government works, however active and capable it is. Real changes happen when every member of this society does their part, when we work together, responsible primarily for ourselves, their families, their neighbors, and their environment. What I want to contribute is to create not only a more responsible government and state administration, but a more responsible society that works for the common good. I want to present to the citizens and to the MPs the composition of the Government that will work on the implementation of the programme that I have presented: Ivica Dačić, First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr Nebojsa Stefanović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, Prof. Dr. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Dr. Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Dr. Dusan Vujlović, Minister of Finance, Goran Knezevic, Minister of Industry, Minister of Justice, Branislav Nedimović, Minister of Agriculture, Forest and Water Management, Goran Trivan, Minister of Environment Protection, Dr. Dusan Starar Antić, Minister of Finance and Energy, Nela Kuburović, Minister of Justice, Branko Ružić, Minister of State Administration and Local Government, Minister of Security, Minister of the Republic of the Republic of Ljubljana, Minister of Ljubljana, Minister of Ljubljana, Minister of Ljubljana and Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance, Minister of Ljubljana, Minister of Ljubljana, Minister of Ljubljana, Minister of Finance, Minister of Ljubljana, Minister of Finance, Minister of Ljubljana, Minister of Finance, Minister of the Minister of Finance and Minister of the Republic of Ljubljana, Minister of Ljubljana, Minister of Ljubljana, Minister of Ljubljana, Minister of Slovenia, Minister of Ljubljana, Minister of Finance, Minister of Ljubljana, Minister of the Minister of Ljubljana, Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Republic, Minister of the Republic, Minister of the Republic, Minister of the Minister of the Minister of the Republic. To conclude, Serbia now has a chance that will not be repeated for a long time, a chance to take advantage of the major changes brought about by digitisation, to turn its economic fate completely within a short time. The new opportunities ahead depend not on anyone or anything else, but only on ourselves and our willingness to win the big international game. We are entering a dynamic process of digitisation, modernisation and intensive education and work, a process of rapid growth, new opportunities, a significantly higher standard of living and a overall better life for all citizens and citizens of Serbia. Serbia will take its chance this time. Long live Serbia! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18152	Dear MPs, we heard the programme and a proposal from the government, which was presented by Mrs Ana Brnabic, a candidate for Prime Minister. I now determine, in accordance with our agreement from the beginning of the session, a 60-minute break. We'll continue our work at 13.00 hours. Thank you. [[after breaks]] The word is Vojislav Seselj. Here you go, you're first.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18154	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one of the greatest flows of parliamentary democracy are political parties and without political parties, developed, strong, firmly organised, unimaginable parliamentary democracies, it is unimaginable to hold parliamentary elections. If you happen to have a nonpartial system, it's actually not even possible or if they pretend to have, they don't actually have it, someone's leading in the back of things in their hands. Perhaps the smartest people in the population would be elected MPs, but the legislative authority could not function, because legislative authority is not enough to make smart people as members of its highest authority. The legislative authority requires that the national representatives are bound by a certain political and economic programme and managed by a certain ideology as a system of values. Without that, it's impossible to establish executive power. When the political party goes to the elections, it is meant to choose the best from its ranks, so it can run them at the head of the list. And when she wins the election, as the Progressive Party has won with us, she must have had more than 50% alone, along with some satellite parties, 128 MPs, right, then it is understood that among those MPs are her best staff and that she will choose from these staff ministers. It is very important that ministers be party people, experts from the party. In England, for example, no one can be a minister without being elected as an MP and he remains both a minister and an MP at the same time. The one who has not received the parliamentary mandate can be the best in the world in his profession, as you have previously praised that Lazar Krstic or as you now praise us some, but it is not worth it. In England, the MPs of government and opposition are completely equal. Discipline is being conducted by the speaker of parliament, of course. On one side of the table is power, on the other side of the opposition. There are no waiters to rush to carry the minister's service and chair of the session, and others to watch with sadness in their eyes. Secondly, you've planted these candidates for ministers in front of us and that they look visually like they're above the National Assembly and you're not. You are under the feet of the National Assembly. The National Assembly needs to step on you all the time to be worth something. If you're not being trampled by the National Assembly, you're kidnapping and going somewhere, you're running your own policy... Wait, I haven't mentioned you yet, just wait a minute. It's very important that you hear this, it's educational. Learn something, Vujovic, how many years you've been here, you've learned nothing. Come on, learn something. You see, for ministers, you have suggested people who boast that they are not in any party, that they are outsiders, as if it were something positive, as if it were something to praise. He says - I'm not a member of any party. Is party membership like plague, like leprosy, what is it? Maybe you're not a member of any party because none of them wanted you. Why is he bringing you into the government now? It doesn't get you in for any serious and good reasons. Here we have before us a government, a proposed composition of a government of 22 members. Seven is only from the Progressive Party, from 22 to seven. Why did you go to the election? Why did you stick the posters? Did these ministers put posters on you? How could he be a minister if he didn't stick posters? We also had Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic and Maja Gojkovic glued posters. Remember Alexander Vukic, he glued the posters "Bulevar Ratko Mladic" instead of Bulevar Zoran Djindjic, and "Safe house for Ratko Mladic", and he used to glue these usual election posters. That is how trust is gained within the party and that is how the people's trust in the party is gained. Well, you calling us monkeys is making you look more like us, not anymore. Furthermore, the question now arises why are you involved in politics? Come on, when I look at you like this, and I would say so myself, there is no face here that can look like a minister, except Marijan Risticevic and Miroslav Lazanski, for example. I have to make two exceptions, I can't get mad, it doesn't matter. The important thing is that you have delegated the trust that the people have delegated to you, or have given you, to someone else, and it turns out that they have received the trust of the people, and they have not. If you put them on the list, the question is how many votes would you get. You might get more, we don't know that, but this is a very unnatural condition. This situation does not meet normal conditions in parliamentary democracies. Look, look closely, Anna, you'll learn something here. In parliamentary democracies, things like this don't happen. In parliamentary democracies, above all, ministers must answer to the National Assembly, but they must also answer to their own party, and these ministers who answer only to their own minds, what kind of ministers can they be? None. I'm not a party member. How can you be a minister and not be a party member? Who did you vote for in the election? Here, you, how many of you are here if you're not party members? Six, right? Who did you vote for in the election anyway? To you and to them. Because you didn't have enough votes, and then I'll go back to your place, who knows where they're going, because they're experts, they're experts. You see, how the Wolf of your ranks sucked out everything he thought could be worth to him, not because they were smart and capable, but because they could be worth to him as corrupt people. Mladjan Dinkic could not be used for something smart and fair, but if he is pardoned for his criminal activities, then he is pardoned for something, and you promised us so soon as you won he went to Mladjan Dinkic, he left Aleksandar Vlahovic, Djelic left. (Kedomir Jovanovic: Don't touch Acu for me.) No, Chado, you're designed for other things here. You're here for other things projected. You're a little wider than the government. (Kadomir Jovanovic: That's right. You and Chanak. Now, what dangers does Serbia face because of your behaviour? You have sworn in the election that you will never give up Kosovo, that you will never go to NATO and that many things you will never, never, never, and that you want some from the stained veins. You have handed over the executive power to the Government of 22 members, where only seven of you are, and 15 of some others. Come on, there are some we can trust, such as Nenad Popovic, I'm sure they won't betray. There's one more thing I need to tell you that's gonna startle you. This morning when we were expecting to go to the assembly meeting, suddenly someone said - the moved Parliament, and passed through that Scott, the American ambassador, was here this morning. I see in the paper that Scott is against the Vulin election. I thought, here he came to Maya to ask for a change in the government's composition. We're on our way to the chase in Maya's office until someone tells us Scott's sitting here waiting for the beginning of the session. And imagine, Maya, when I got into a situation to defend Wulyn because he was attacked by Scott. Then how can I be against Vulin when he was attacked by Scott and he's looking for Scott not to be the Secretary of Defense. But there is something else here, the day Vukic announced who would be the prime minister, it was June 15th, Thursday, "Blic" announced -- Ana Brnabic must be prime minister. It was announced in the morning by Blic, and sometime this afternoon, Vukic announced that she would indeed be prime minister. If I had been a prime minister, don't smile, it's not as far ahead of us as you think, and if this had appeared, if I had been a prime minister, the one who gives the mandate, I would never have given Ana Brnabic the mandate, for this reason. You know what "Blic" is, it was Spinger's, which means he's running anti-Serbian politics and he's working in co-operation with the German Intelligence Service, and we all know that in Serbia, right? No one should be convinced of that. This country of Serbia should not suffer. Imagine now you have a government over which you have no control. The wolf now seems to have control over this government because the situation in the state is relatively stable, is a people dissatisfied with both salaries and pensions and unemployment and poor buying up of raspberries and many other things, but still it is a rather stable situation, not threatening more hips and disruptors to say it. And imagine in a crisis situation, the government makes a decision against the people, against the state, against the parliamentary majority, we had a case with such a government, remember the government of Milan Panic, only it was elected immediately against the parliamentary majority. Which is a guarantee that this government won't either. These seven MPs, the advances in it, no. Here, even though I promised Zoran I wouldn't attack her today, I won't attack her at all, I'll just mention her for a little while, here, Zoran will be the first to lift up the anchor and sail towards leading the policies of the Western embassies, and there are more of them. So, even less, you'll be in government. He can't disband the National Assembly then. He can't schedule a new election. Why can't he? Because the Assembly can only be disbanded on a reasoned proposal from the government. Ana Brnabic has a majority in the government and if she gets a warrant from those who used to hire her, USAID and others there some and NADA, our people say – run it either and gets most of it in the government, what will you do then. You're going to vote non-trust? By the time that mistrust was passed, the trains passed. Now what kind of agreements that government can make with foreign countries, with Western countries in the meantime. One of you will say, well, he can't because all agreements have to be ratified. Why these two packages of Brussels agreements did not have to be ratified, even the Constitutional Court declared that they were not legal acts but political ones. Political acts, but they bring legal consequences. It's very serious stuff, and I get the impression that many of you are playing with the state. And a country game can be very, very dangerous. As for Ana Brnabic, I have some information about some of the violations she committed, which we didn't get in the biography, but that's not a big deal. You violated the Production Waste Regulation. Is that right? Is it true? Here, they say, traffic police, a violation on December 02nd, 2014. What's so funny? Did you drive under the fact that you were drinking? Do you have a report? Answer me, please. Do you? All right, let me just let you know that I tried to question it. Here, she confirmed to me Miss Brnabic, to see that I'm not lying, that I'm a serious man, but I don't blame her very much. This isn't so important. It's about one other thing. I wonder if you, Miss Brnabic, are here in conflict of interest, and here's why. You insisted, when this ministry law was passed two days ago, that one segment of your former ministry be transferred to the government's direct jurisdiction, that is, your jurisdiction. It's this digitization and everything that's meant, not to mention, everything there is and keeping a register of citizens and publishing various documents, etc. What's wrong with me? Are you in conflict of interest because of the already hired company Asseco SEE to do these jobs for the government? Is that true? The company already made a 32m-euro income last year. What's the problem? The problem is there's no tender being called, there's no competition scheduled for the company to engage. There's a leading global company in the area, it's from Russia. It made two billion and 800m euros in exporting software solutions to leading financial and other institutions in Europe, Brazil, India and China in 2015. She didn't have any chance of showing up here, but I have information that your own brother is one of the directors of "Asseco SEE". Is that true? Anna Brnabic: Yes. It's true. Are you in conflict of interest if you hire this firm to do these jobs for the Serbian government?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18155	Thank you. I've written down all five reports, so I'm gonna delete you, but I'm gonna call in that order to give Anna Brnabic the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18156	Thank you. A few things have been brought out, so I'd like to answer as much as possible, anyway. I think that the legitimate things that have been presented and that I am obliged to give the citizens of Serbia an explanation because it is necessary to enter a mandate with a completely transparent view. So are we in a potential conflict of interest? When I became Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, it is important for me to say this to both the National Assembly and you as MPs, who are above the Government, and to the citizens of Serbia and the Anti-Corruption Agency, because even then, since I was Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government, the EGG was an authority within my ministry, although it was not necessary since he, by our law, my brother, now 44, was not part of my primary family. So he has his own life. It could've happened if we hadn't talked in ten years. Fortunately, we're in great relationships. Anyway, I reported it to the Anti-Corruption Agency and asked the Anti-Corruption Agency for their opinion. The opinion of the Anti-Corruption Agency was that I, of course, could continue my work, that tenders should be debated. If in the tender as a performer of Asecco SEE, whose brother is the born director, wins the tender, I should inform the Anti-Corruption Agency that the Anti-Corruption Agency would take the documentation into account and assess whether or not the job was set up. In that opinion, I am also acting as Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, and I hope only as Prime Minister will act in full transparency. Second, I'm 42 years old. My own brother is 44 years old. He's got his own life, he's got his own career. That career has nothing to do with me. He's been building all these years. Does this mean now that any member of my family who has anything to do with the IT sector, with the government, with civil society, with anything like that, should quit and stop working? What does that have to do with me? I will, and I guarantee it, as I did while I was Minister of State and Local Self-Government, absolutely uphold the letters of the law and move on. I will answer all these questions and I think they are legitimate and I need to explain them to the citizens of Serbia. So, as far as this company is concerned, it is an international company with a regional centre in Belgrade, which is fantastic because it is in Belgrade for the whole region and employs more than 500 engineers. The company as an international company, Poland otherwise has serious and strict anti-corruption measures, because they cannot co-operate with their partners if at any time they prove to have had any conflict of interest, especially in co-operation with public administration and institutions. So, on both sides, we are protected here by the laws of the Republic of Serbia, the Anti-Corruption Agency, and by the very market that such prominent international companies regulate. I'd be interested in that number. Asecco certainly has, although I think it is, I think, but not entering their policy, 80% of their market share in the real sector, I don't think it's even 20% in the state sector. I would certainly be interested in that contract you mentioned, when it was signed and what exactly it had to do with me, because I don't know that Asecco, ever since I became a minister, has got anything in this country. Moreover, the E-Government Directorate as an organ in the composition has called public procurement for tax procurement, for the procurement of a system for connecting local tax administrations so that, hopefully, in the coming months in Serbia, all Serbian citizens can access their home to the databases and the Internet, to see how much tax debts they have and to pay online, regardless of whether they are coming from America, from Russia, from Belgrade, and they need to pay real estate tax in Vranjska Banja, to make life easier for the citizens. In this tender, which was announced by the Authority in the EGG Directorate, therefore, neither I as Minister participated in the creation of the tender documentation nor in the decision, was the Commission in which, among other things, the members of the MUP were, as a subcontractor, selected "Asecco" for a very small value of the contract. I, despite being a clear directorate, have reported to the Anti-Corruption Agency that I am reporting and asking for an opinion, only if Asseco wins as a performer, has reported it to the Anti-Corruption Agency, although the subcontractors have asked for an opinion, which the Anti-Corruption Agency has told me is not a conflict of interest, but may be a perception of conflict of interest, which I asked the Director of the e-Government Directorate to annul that tender. So, as far as I'm concerned, I'm absolutely transparent and, believe me, I promise you all, I will try to make sure with the practice that I have impose a standard of transparency in the government, which this government has, because all the reports of this government, the previous government, were publicly available on what we did and how we did. So I don't know about the government that was more under the public eye than the previous government. So, that's hopefully the answer. I hope that the MPs and citizens of Serbia will not ask a man who is 44 years old, his family, two children, to leave his job only because his own sister is a minister or a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I hope that in Serbia everyone has the right to their lives and their careers and that these two things cannot interfere. Just a few more things. I apologize for extending this, because I really think it's important for the citizens. I would like to say that, when we mentioned the US ambassador and mentioned Blic, unlike some, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister or a proposal for the mandate and ministers, neither the US ambassador nor the other ambassador, nor the press, therefore, nor the Blic, decide. So, I don't know what it would be like or why someone as a serious person would read something that's in Blic, or in some other newspaper, and on that basis decided to change their mind about why someone is a prime minister or not a prime minister. If we had gone into conspiracy theories, maybe Blic had just announced it so that I wouldn't have been declared a prime minister that day, in which case whoever bought it would have made a big, big mistake for Serbia. But let's not go into conspiracy theories. As far as the government is concerned, this government is as complete as any government in parliamentary democracy under the People's Parliament. If the government takes control of the parliamentary majority, then, of course, the government will be relieved, as well as in the case of the government of Milan Panic. That this does not exist in any parliamentary democracy, it disproves several examples. I hope Italy, we will agree, is a parliamentary democracy. Prime Minister Monti, 2011-2013, who contributed to a major reduction in the budget deficit, real estate tax fixing, an increase in years for retirement, a reduction in the costs of administrative bodies, the liberalisation of closed professions, labour market reform, Greece, Papademos, 2011-2012, the Czech Republic, Fisher 2009-2010, Hungary, Bajnai 2009-2010, reduced profits taxes, abolished different tax specificities, etc. These were all non-partisan personalities, some parliamentary majority, some of the strongest parties responsible for giving Serbia a mandate as best they could to try, do their best, and all the knowledge they have, to run the country's government as well as they know best. There is no greater courage than to trust part of your responsibility to someone to try to do the best in this case for the Republic of Serbia. If I don't do my best with my team, for the Republic of Serbia, I'm sure the strongest party, with its coalition partners, will respond quickly and efficiently, because everyone is only in the best interest of a better standard of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18157	Thank you. The word is Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18158	I would give you, Miss Brnabic, a slightly wider answer, but I am bound by those two minutes, unfortunately, and that is again what is the privilege of the executive authority over members of the legislative authority. But I have to remind you that we had a Chief of Staff whose son delivered toilet paper and other hygiene chemicals to some military units, and potatoes and groceries, some etc. That's why the Chief of Staff had to resign. No one asked what the profit was, if any profits were made, and on those purchases is the smallest profit, if any. There's one thing you need to keep in mind. You said there could be a perception of conflict of interest here, and there's no real conflict of interest. You know, in court practice, it's very important not only that justice is done, but also that it is realized. He who observes from the side, that he sees it come true. If I, who I'm looking at on the side, have a serious perception that this is a conflict of interest, then something needs to be done to avoid this conflict of interest. Otherwise, as far as your defences are concerned, ministers who are not members of any party, who came here as experts from heaven, although I have never heard of their expertise anywhere, instead of, you had, I just said, until Miroslav Lazanski was gone, now I must repeat, that you have him and Marijan Risticevic...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18159	Thank you. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18160	... Much more quality experts for various resors than those you have inserted.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18161	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinović, replica Vojislav Seselj [[Vojislav Seselj: To what replica?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18162	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. To tell you the truth, I'm in a dilemma whether I should go into a political duel with someone who got three times less votes than White Preletzic. But since the SNS has been mentioned in a very negative context, I have to react. It's just my political commitment. This is where the funny Vojislav ŠELJ: talked about the SNS not having its own ministers in the government and how many there are. Ana Brnabic is the future Prime Minister on behalf of the SNS. So the SNS will have its Prime Minister, who will be called Ana Brnabic. Here, Dusan Vujovic was respected for not knowing anything from a man who was a professor of law enforcement, and did not distinguish the work from jurisdiction and did not distinguish the affairs of the state administration. There is talk of a conflict of interest from a man whose wife was a candidate for the president of the Republic and whose sons are members of a municipal council in Zemun and New Belgrade, if I am not mistaken. Now, who about what, someone about honesty? This is about the fact that the SNS has full confidence in Ms. Ana Brnabic, along with all the proposed candidates for ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because we firmly believe that Serbia deserves a government that should function as a single team, along with the parliamentary majority, along with the President of the Republic and together with the Government, we can make the state of Serbia better, more modern, more decent, in which citizens will live better.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18163	I'll give you my word if I don't have to Nemanja Sarovic. (Vojislav Seselj: I have nothing to do with him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18164	My wife was running for President of the Republic while I was away on the official road, and she ran personally on Alexander Martinovic's proposal. Here, let all the people who took part in it tell you. So watch out for one more thing, and why can't she run like all the other citizens? I wasn't there, far away, 2,000 miles and so on. There's nothing wrong with that. The problem was that she had to be pressured to accept it, because the agency they hired to run our election campaign said she would best pass the candidate named Seselj. Obviously, candidates with that last name haven't been going well lately. I hope the times change, but that's not the most important thing. I may not have a single vote in the next election, but I will have honor, pride, face, honesty. None of that Alexander Martinovic will ever have in his life again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18165	Ambassador, don't insult me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18166	One more thing, Maya, I insisted last time, when you didn't give me a word, when you didn't give me a replica, that there was no authority of the European Integration Ministry. And there's no jurisdiction until today. There's a minister without jurisdiction, a minister who chases counselors, chases coffee cooks, writes letters, reads letters, etc., has no administrative authority, can't handle administrative proceedings, there's no administrative disputes in which to participate, absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18167	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. He can't. If I let your president... You're not listening at all. Do not shout at the chairman, for the chairman is headed by article 27 of the Assembly, taking care of order and work. (Imanja Sarovic: In accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Don't teach me the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18168	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. I will not allow the SNS, Aleksandar Vukic and Ana Brnabić's MP group to be a punching bag for anyone, including the gentleman I believed to have learned from Saturday to this day the difference between the delirquence and jurisdiction, and it turns out not to be. He repeatedly argues that the European Integration Ministry has no jurisdiction, and I tried, I did my best to explain to him on Saturday that the Ministry Law does not regulate the jurisdiction of the ministries, but their workaround and accounting, the man, the professor of Law School, was probably taught from Saturday to today what is the difference between work and jurisdiction. Unfortunately, it turns out I was wrong. (Vojislav Seselj: Where are these responsibilities written, clampo? All right, all right, all right. You're very funny. We've already decided, Mr. Seselj, that you're even nicer than me, and younger, and smarter, and that's all true. I agree with all that, but you missed telling one important truth. The evening before I proposed to your lady candidate for President of the Republic, you called me on the phone and told me if I was ready to do it. I asked you, yes, but tell me for what reasons. Says some agency said she could get more votes than you, and I asked you which agency, so I don't know which agency, some agency. After I heard, you know whose agency, Mr. Gjorga Vukadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18169	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today even after 18.00 hours, in accordance with Articles 27 and 87 of Opinions 2 and 3, because of the need to consider the exposés of the mandate and to join the vote and the election of the new Government of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Again in the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18170	Mrs. Gojkovic, I'm always serious, and you've violated more members of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure say that the MP has the right to orally point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure and get the word right away. You didn't give me the word, and it's very obvious, you gave it to others, which you had no right to, and you broke the Rules of Procedure. You violated Article 104 when you gave Aleksandar Martinovic the word in the replica of Vojislav Seselj at the exhibition of Miss Ana Brnabić was of no importance to the SNS, nor to him personally. The conditions under which the replica is given are strictly prescribed and you, when you are leading, in accordance with Article 27, are not a matter of your goodwill or your assessment at that time, you are obliged to do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It's obvious you've broken it. Next thing. Article 107. The session does not allow the direct address of the MP to another MP, the use of offensive expressions, as well as the presentation of facts and evaluations relating to the private life of other persons. When it suits you, then you let go, and when representatives of the ruling coalition do, you let it go, but that's why you're very strict and you react when someone in the opposition tries to do it. This, Mrs. Gojkovic, is an indicator of how you will lead the session and the indicator in which direction you want to discuss the government's trust, or candidate for Prime Minister, because the Constitution only knows the Prime Minister, and that is the name of the function, not the gender definition. That's what you want. You want this session to turn into the worst possible argument, without arguments and without substance. We don't want that. As you have seen, we have enough arguments and, Mrs. Brnabic...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18171	Thank you very much. So, I haven't hurt a single member of the Rules of Procedure that you're here... (Vojislav Seselj: Swear. ) I swear I didn't, because I see that some conflict was in the parliamentary group with you, because your president didn't give you a word and interrupted you physically... (Inemnja Sarovic: My president is not yet the speaker of the assembly, but you are the speaker of the assembly. All right. Take it easy, it's gonna be okay. Nemanja Sarovic: I don't believe it. If you continue to hold a session like this... I invite you to cooperate, not to throw. We have a serious session today. Be patient, wait a minute to get an answer, if you're interested in it at all, and I'm expressing a deep suspicion that you don't care what I say. So, I'm just going to ask you if you want us to vote for violations of the Rules of Procedure that I didn't do? Yeah, right? (Vojislav Seselj: No. No, no, no, Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: I have not spoken. I thank you. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18172	Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Brnabic, the worst that can happen in one society is in fact the loss of feeling for priorities and the absence of any system of values. It's not just a feature of the moment we're in right now. Unfortunately, I think I spent my whole life in Serbia suffering from this kind of weakness. The least of the problems was that it meant some personal price we're paying. The price was paid by the whole country. I listened very carefully. There's not too much political experience behind you and everything I want to say on behalf of the LDP I don't think it would be fair to put it on your back, and on the other hand it would be humiliating and offensive to spare you those policies, because I guess you know what kind of responsibility is being followed by someone who's the Prime Minister. When you announced the composition of your government yesterday, my first reaction was actually to comment that we missed out in the public debates about the color of the toilet and the brashalters at the presidential inauguration or DOS tips to see how weak we are as a state to formulate the policy that this country needs in order to do jobs that have not been done so far. I'll tell you that I see your cabinet as a cabinet that is the result of numerous compromises and, in part, the expression of the inability to withstand the pressures you've been under. In October of this month, I spoke here in Parliament, appealing to the Assembly, precisely because of what is happening here right now. That's when I said that complicated political circumstances in the region are completely variable international relations, something we have to think about. Montenegro's entry into NATO, the resolution of the Macedonian crisis, very complicated and tense relations between the West and Russia, have led you, Mrs Brnabic, to talk about everything here, except the most important political issues, and we need to talk about them. I don't care why Alexander Vulin didn't serve military time, I don't think it's a key issue for the Secretary of Defense, so many women were in that position in the world. I'm interested in something else. What is the political context in which you bring your government when you propose Alexander Vulin as defence minister, and for example, we believe that the precondition for peace in the region is to further integrate Serbia into NATO, and he is a political opponent of NATO? Finally, he appeared in the auxiliary chair and the minister you're proposing as a man who will deal with innovations in the government, I mean Mr Popovic. It is a man who last year advocated a completely different policy, a policy your government led, seeking to raise a wall at the border so refugees could not pass through Serbia. There is no people like us. At one point there were both the King and the Parliament and the Government, the whole country was in exile. If something had cleared us, then it was this country's reaction at the time of the refugee crisis. We have suffered a lot of humiliation over the past 30 years, for many we are responsible for ourselves. I will tell you that what has happened in the last few days is that I have seen as a direct humiliation of the country, and it is possible, not only because there is not too much force in the ruling coalition, but also because of the opposition's inability to formulate politics in the way that it is done in Montenegro, for example, when they have combined resisted all pressures and realised some key political goals that have provided the country with a safe, normal future, and yet I am binding it, and we from the LDP for EU membership, for NATO's pact, for ready to cut Gordi's knots in the 1990s and, what you are inevitably needed about, and this is overcoming the terrible internal relations. I can guess what you wanted to say when you said that your answer to what followed your candidacy was silence. There's no silence when you're the Prime Minister. You can't keep your mouth shut about that. If you keep quiet about it, how will those who go through what you've been through feel? We said that our attitude towards you stems from the policy you're taking, not from your personality. But there's no silence in front of the idea that someone is running for Prime Minister, because that's how we court the West. Nor can there be silence in front of the fact that someone is running for Prime Minister, because it's mediocrity. You have no right to remain silent about this. We can talk about digitization, I don't mind. The fourth technological revolution, in a country where 50% of the population is technically illiterate, functionally, but I want to talk about what you're at least prepared for right now, which is a political course. I'm sorry, if he'd won 22 million votes, he wouldn't have been able to do that. We as Parliament, you as someone running for Prime Minister, should say what this country's goal is, how we think that goal is to achieve, how much it will cost. There's not a lot of maneuvering space in the field of economic policy. Two thousand of the first year we signed the Labour Act when it was written in 2014, we said it was necessary, that it must be done. We have some results today. That's something to look after. It's not safe to keep it that way forever. What about the private sector? I have nothing against foreign investors, against subsidies, raising competitiveness in such a way, but I don't like the kind of populism I recognize in your position that you won't let agricultural land be sold. The most quality farmland in Serbia is agricultural land managed by foreigners, foreign companies, or those branded here as tycoons. That's the facts, that's the truth. Why do we need that kind of pulsism? We can talk about it in some other way, and we need to open these discussions and get them started. I'd like to clear up with you, on this political agenda, give us an argument as to why Alexander Vulin is a candidate for Secretary of Defense. That's what we need. Would he continue to behave as he has acted so far, because then it is a direct provocation of those with whom we want to continue to cooperate better than it has been the case so far? Why is Nenad Popovic the Minister of Innovation? Is it because we are thus humiliated by Moscow, which we have so far opposed, not opening up space for it in the executive government? As for what you can expect from the LDP, it's a kind of policy that has never been popular in this country, and there seems to be too much understanding, but it has endured a test of time. Ninety percent of the congregation today shares our convictions and attitudes that make us here branded for years. Tomorrow, when you look back at this session in what we're saying, you'll be able to find those answers that the ruling coalition so far has not been prepared to give. How do we get into the Kosovo crisis? We have agreements that we have signed, which are not respected, what will be your policy on this plan? What do we do in Bosnia next year? What kind of politics are we going to run? You're talking about a partnership for peace, are we entering NATO or are we staying here, isolated, like Kaljingrad, up north? It has its basis, not in our desire, to change our uniform, but in the fact that we are not as sustainable as we are. If we want to be an economically successful country, then we need to be integrated into the space in which we exist, including security. NATO membership is the only guarantee such peace for our children. Let's talk about it, and in the end we'll make some decisions together. We didn't even open that topic between us. How do you propose we overcome each other's division? I don't think there's a single topic on which the government and the opposition can agree and agree today. There is not a single sentence that Vucic can pronounce without obtaining the opposition's consent. And the government is acting the same way. You can't keep your mouth shut about that. We don't need some middleman in each other's relations, and can you, as Prime Minister, say that you will solve and seek support and help to solve some of the problems that can't stay like this anymore. We broke our spine under that Herzegovina street and Saval. We deal with each other when we take an oath. Half the assembly wasn't here while the president took the oath. That's never happened before. This disorientated, divided country, it can only disappear. Who understands us today? No one can, when we don't understand ourselves. These are all your obligations. We can't do that, you'll have to. I listened very carefully, you said we had a chance, how much longer we'd have. We've all had our chances of gambling. We missed every chance. If this is a chance, come on, then tell me, what is it that is space for anyone in this country who wants a chance to take advantage of it? This is not a chance for a monologue, but it may be an opportunity for a common answer to some questions, economic, political, cultural, sports issues. There's a head in the sand on every plan. You have to change that. What will our position on your cabinet be? Just like he was about every cabinet before you. You didn't make a deal with us about the government. We didn't formulate a common government policy and of course we can't vote for it. But don't have a dilemma about our willingness that as we've done so many times and tomorrow we help when help is needed for this country, so if you decide to defend yourself with silence, like I've done for years, you should know that LDP won't be silent. This country will have no room for any kind of discrimination regardless of the breadth of the back of the one who can bear it and regardless of the side it comes from, whether from the authorities or from the opposition. You said to leave the past in the past. We can't leave her. If we don't get this straight, it'll come back to our faces. That's what we need to talk about. Today, Vukic marks the anniversary of Vidovdan in Kruševec. He said no one created our country, that we created it ourselves. We've destroyed it so many times so far, first of all, us. And the only, as far as I know, positive Vidov day I can remember is the one from 16 years ago. Because we've done in a decent and civilized way something that's never happened before. With the ideas that you've come up with, I don't want to pummel. I think it's completely pointless to ask a question of your authority and the facts from which it arises and from what it is built. It is built on the political decision of those who received the election to give you the opportunity to do your job in the same way we did it in 2001 with Djelic and Goran Pitic and Ac Vlahovic and Slob Milosavljevic. Half the government were the people we invited to do the job because we thought they were better at it than anyone else. Others did other jobs. I wouldn't be making some kind of special mystery out of it. Your political credibility and personal credibility stems from your courage to say what no one before you was willing to say as Prime Minister. You don't have the mortgages that others have. I knew very well what I was talking about in October, among other things, when Vukic showed up and told me what would happen after the presidential election. Now we're paying the price. Nikolic has been moved as the foothold of one policy. The wolf has come to his place. We are now paying the price of the compromises we are forced to make because we are weak and we cannot resist them. The government didn't have the strength to say a year ago -- we're going to solve Kosovo as we have to solve it, we're going to go to NATO because we're protecting the country. Today, we are even weaker on this plan, and when a call for dialogue is heard, then the answer is – I will not be an accomplice to Kosovo's independence. Open key questions the way it should be done and you will have serious conversants in us and certainly not someone who will be able to liquidate your account and look for your chance in your failure. You're obliged to tell us the motives for those human resources that were created in the government. They don't have to be your own, but the government is making deals. It is clear that Vulina's candidacy as defence minister is a direct provocation in view of the political course ahead. I don't think he'd be comfortable with me supporting him and vice versa. But when you're running for Secretary of Defense, I guess you know what that means. When you propose Mr Popovic as Minister of Innovation, so I think he forgot to speak Serbian, then we can assume what that means. Does this mean that the Russians must have someone in the government who will tell us to leave European integration because it is Mr Popovic's policy and to start accession negotiations with the Russian Federation and the union of states that it gathers in its orbit. How, then, will we, Mrs Brnabic, join the EU when we are seated by a minister who asks the government to leave European integration? Since I know the background of all this, then I can only say that I'm worried, that I will certainly not make it difficult for you for no reason your work, but that we will be great critics of every attempt to continue in this way, because unfortunately, as much as you insist on continuity, the world is changing dramatically. We lost 30 years. For us, time has never been a resource. Keep economic continuity. Defend what needs to be done, but other plans must make up for what has not been done in the past five years.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18173	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18174	Thank you. A lot of things again. I'll try to answer as much or as much as possible. I find two things interesting. One that speaks of the division of the country that I think exists, but I don't think it is so critical because this country has a stable political course for several years, and the largest political party and their president certainly have huge support from Serbian citizens. I think we're running a balanced policy. For two reasons, it seems to me. The first reason is because I am as a candidate for Prime Minister under attack seems equally to me by the extreme right and by the extreme liberal option. So it's kind of telling me that we're trying to have that balanced path. On the other hand, in terms of whom it represents which minister in this government. The entire team and the entire government are working for the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and would not share them in whether they represent Russia, someone in America, and someone in the EU, someone in themselves, and someone in Serbia. This team is unique. This team, to understand why it hasn't been changed, received the support of this Assembly in August last year and since August has done many excellent changes and we have good results that I will certainly look back on today during the debate or tomorrow. So I had no reason to change that. It's the team that I've been invited to, the team that I've been on, the team that I've been working with fantastically, with each of my colleagues, and the team that I've seen work together over the last 10 months, and we certainly have some things that we disagree on, and then we sit down and agree together and resist Serbia getting better. We want to say that this is the Russian government because we have Minister Vulin or Minister Popovic, and on the other hand, we have in my exhibition the first sentence – the strategic commitment of this government is the EU. We have two new ministries, two ministries that are necessary for the EU – the Ministry of European Integration, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which is important to us for the protection of the environment, but also because this chapter in our negotiations with the EU will be most likely, more difficult than political chapters, and certainly most expensive. So that shows me one balance, but then again, I wouldn't say that anyone here represents the interests of any state other than Serbia. That I don't have too much political experience, so maybe I don't have too much political experience for years, but in the end, isn't one of the biggest criticisms of everyone was that we don't have new faces in politics. When new faces enter politics and someone gives them trust, they have the courage to give them some of their authority, then we have a problem with those faces because they don't have enough of this kind of experience or experience. I certainly don't think that's going to be my problem in my further work. As far as foreign investment is concerned, I think most things are the core of the new government program and what I've been saying today is just entrepreneurship, so something else. We go through the continuity of that foreign investor course. On the other hand, we encourage domestic economy, domestic knowledge, entrepreneurship, innovation, small and medium-sized enterprises, and that is the core. It's the next level of development we need to benefit much more from. Digitalization, well, I don't believe our population is so digitally illiterate. In these last ten months, I've had a different experience working with citizens and with the economy in Serbia, but everything, and it's 100% like I said, digitisation and the fourth industrial revolution are something that is inevitably coming. We can ignore it further, think about growth in traditional sectors in a traditional way, and then miss the chance we have today. As I said, we won't have it anymore, because these countries will go further and the greatest advantage at this moment in this society, this environment is that even countries that have missed the third industrial revolution can now benefit from the fourth industrial revolution. This is what this government will do both in agriculture and in medicine and in construction and in everything else. As far as the topic of the NATO Pact, Kosovo, etc. is concerned, I fully understand that we do not all share the same opinion. I think the Government of the Republic is clear, unequivocal with its neutrality, with its military neutrality and clear, unequivocal in that we cannot recognise Kosovo's sovereignty. Finally, let me just say, as far as my silence is concerned, I repeat again for these seven or about eight days, how many of my appointments as Serbian Prime Minister, I have heard countless personal insults. I won't answer my personal insults because I have nothing to say. I don't have anything to say to people who say they don't know whether to call me Mr. or Miss because I haven't been born to define myself. I've heard I'm a Sultania, a homo-premise, a ficus, icebana, Mirko Cvetkovic, etc. etc. You really think, do the citizens of Serbia think that a candidate for Prime Minister should pay attention to such a thing? I have a goal in front of me like I said. We should work. You can call me and I promise the citizens of Serbia that they can call me any people, either myself or you can call me a ficus and icaban and a homo-premium and sultanium and three Sultanias, I hope if I get the trust of most of the MPs of this assembly, the first day of the morning go to work, have meetings and try first day, at least one small, smallest thing in this Serbia to change. I won't pay attention to personal insults, but I will defend the government and all members of the Serbian government team. I will explain our decisions and be open to all proposals and constructive criticism. I'm sure as hell not gonna keep my mouth shut about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18175	Thank you. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18176	Mrs. Brnabic, it would be great if it could work like that. Did you say that the government's strategic definition is EU membership. You're proposing a minister who's against it. You said it was a defined policy towards Kosovo, and the definition of this policy has cost Serbia to the extent that we can only leave in 1389, not the EU. I don't think it's your responsibility, and that's why I don't want to talk to you about the reasons we came into this situation, but now you're going to become Prime Minister and you're taking responsibility. At least you don't owe anyone anything on that plan. What military neutrality? It was a 2007 prank between Tadic and Kostunica. That's never been talked about here. It doesn't exist anywhere in the world. We need to be an independent country that will freely make its decisions in accordance with its interests. When we try to be that, then we get the messages that were sent to us last October through Montenegro. Why was Petrusev here for two days? Since the Prime Minister doesn't want to talk about it, then I respect it, so neither do I, but I know very well what time we live in and that's why I want to help my country by telling her the truth. I also don't think you should pay personal attention to what they put on your back every day. We wouldn't have time for anything else, but think about those who have no one to protect, and they can't wear what you can carry. Because of them, he must never speak of it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18177	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18178	I signed up for the replica. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, dear Mrs. Brnabic, do not take Mr. Jovanovic seriously in any segment of his discussion. He's an old married man who's been trying to get into every government since 2004, so he didn't realize that the government was already proposed and that he's welcome to propose himself today, for the composition of any government. No one normal in Serbia who deals with politics, a man who does not respect his own word as a guarantee that Slobodan Milosevic will not be handed over to The Hague tribunal, who has trampled his own written word. Opatio Vidovdan by Slobodan Milosevic 16 years ago, with his help, his public criminal group was extradited to The Hague, could never be part of Serbian politics. He must not be a member of parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18179	Don't be such a messenger.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18180	My right is the chairman...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18181	We don't judge it, but the citizens go to the polls. Don't say that. He doesn't deserve to be a member of this House either. It has to be made clear and loud and it has to be known. I don't know what she hopes for next. To tell you about the mortgages? He can, for sure, talk to you about mortgages, he's full of mortgages. Perhaps he can explain to us that seven million euros is worth of grain converted into white flour, type 500 and is now sold through Fidelin products or others. Maybe it would mean something to the government itself to keep it going. MP, please, time, two minutes. I'll give the replica to Cedomir Jovanovic. I ask all MPs, when reporting for a replica, not to use words of insult, but to respond to what has been said by the previous speaker, whoever is speaking to whom. We're not going anywhere like this. The word is Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18182	Madam President, I will not contribute to this debate. I respected Milosevic, I was his political opponent and I did everything I could to make our political struggle worthy of the extent possible and he never attacked me, and I think we understood each other more than ever in those last moments when we talked 16 years ago. I am sorry that Serbia was such an unfortunate country that almost all its presidents ended up in prisons and in front of international courts. Among other things, that is why I am obliged to take care of the policy that is being led in this country, so that such a thing will never happen again. I will not contribute, the government is elected, nor will I participate in this debate, nor will I participate in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18183	Thank you. The word is Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18184	Dear President, Mrs Brnabic, ladies and gentlemen, future members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Parliamentary Group of the Duke of Hungarians, the Party for Democratic Action will give support to the government of Ms. Brnabic. Since April 2014, we have been part of the ruling majority, because we agree and have agreed with the basic programme definitions and previous government, and I can say, on the basis of what I heard and on the basis of the exposé, that we agree with most of the findings of the exposé of the future government, the government of Mrs. Brnabic. We in the presidential elections a few months ago supported Mr. Alexander Vukic's candidacy for the President of the Republic and I think we contributed, that the duchy Hungarian community contributed to his victory. When we discussed this, as representatives of the electoral list that has MPs in the National Assembly, which is our opinion to whom he should entrust the mandate for the composition of the future government of the Republic of Serbia, then we said that we are not going as a party to the personal issue of who will be the future Prime Minister of Serbia, but that this should certainly be the person behind whom the SNS can stand as the most influential and greatest party currently on the political map of the Republic of Serbia, because this is the only way to ensure political stability in some future times. Because, as we heard behind the exposés, Serbia's government has great tasks and political stability is needed to enable the government to respond to these challenges. I would like to talk about very concrete things, about what was done in the previous period and what we think should be done in the coming months, and I hope for the years of this government. As for the last three years, for the duchy Hungarians some very important things have been realized. First, after decades, the collective guilt of the duchy Hungarians was lifted. It was eliminated from our legal system, from the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Secondly, some projects have been funded over the past three years, projects that were not funded by a single dinar three years ago. First of all, I mean the National Theatre building in Subotica, I mean so-called. I mean the development of the tourist potential and capacity of Palic. In addition, as you know very well, Mrs Brnabic, because you have had a huge impact on this issue, not only on the adoption of the minority action plan, but on the implementation and implementation of the elements of the minority action plan, this is of great importance to us, which is not only the past, but practically at the last session of the first government of Alexander Vukic, the special minority action plan has been adopted, which means the framework of the tasks of all future governments of the Republic of Serbia, until our country joins the EU in improving the position of members of national minorities. I think these are very important goals, which have been realised in previous years, and I want us to be partners in continuing to realise these goals in the coming months and in the coming years. As you can see, this is about some symbolic things, but it is also very practical things from the area of infrastructure development, businesses, etc., which are not only important for the duchy Hungarians, but for all of our neighbours, for all of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. There were also words about whether it is good when the Prime Minister is an extra-party figure, when he is not a member of the political party. In some earlier periods, I was talking about that not being the happiest solution when a member of the government is an extra-party person, because it has come true in history. Plato wrote years ago about the state being run by philosophers. Today we'd say experts or experts. That experiment didn't show up on the Syracuse case nearly 2,500 years ago. But I, Mrs. Brnabic, would not list you as a circle of those experts who were members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in some earlier councils in the previous years or decades, because there is a very serious experience behind you for a year in the position of Minister, a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have proven yourself, in my opinion, in our SVM, because you have run this resort perfectly, which will be led by Mr. Ruzic in the future. We are vitally interested in him being as successful as you were, because his portfolio includes the issues of the position of members of the national minorities. He will run that ministry that should draft a law amending and supplementing the National Minority Councils Act, amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, and much of it from a special minority action plan falls within the authority of that ministry that you led for almost a year. What I was very happy about, Mrs. Brnabic, is next. When Mr. Vukic took an oath here in front of us at the National Assembly on the last day of May, then the next morning you were a guest on the morning journal of the RTS. I looked at that show because of what I assumed, and it turned out I was right, that the guest of that morning's diary would most likely be the new Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I was very interested in who was gonna be the guest of that show and it was you. Then the editor asked you what you're very proud of and what do you think should be the most important tasks of the new government? Then you said a few sentences about some economic issues that should certainly be the focus of the future government, as they were in focus and the previous ones, but then you kept talking about the importance of the Republic Council for National Minorities. Then I saw that the editor certainly wanted you to talk about something else, about economic issues, about business, about some of the issues that are important to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of national or other belongings, and you kept talking for a few more minutes about the importance of national councils of national minorities, the Republic Council for National Minorities, which had not functioned for years before this previous Government, about the importance of the Law on National Councils, etc. I must say, on this basis and on the basis of the exposés we have heard today, that you are the Prime Minister or future Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of the future government, who has given the greatest importance to this issue in some previous period, and this should certainly be an encouragement to members of the national minorities because you have proved that this is very important to you, that this is not about the flossules, that it is not about some political phrases, because in the previous months it has been in the process of making laws on amendments and additions to the Law on National Councils and on the protection of the rights and freedom of national minorities under your leadership. Since you will be the president of the new government, I am sure that the new government will attach even more importance to these issues, not only because it is our obligation on the way to the EU, but because you are sincere to improving the position of members of the national minorities. We've got a hell of a job to do on these issues. A lot of laws need to be amended and passed. I hope that there will finally come a time when all sectoral laws will comply with the National Minority Councils Act. First of all, I am referring to the laws in the fields of education, culture, information and the Law on official use of language. While I am already in the field of education, since this is of importance for the position of members of national minorities, I must express the satisfaction that Mr. Sarcevic will continue to be head of education, science and technological development, as large steps have been taken over the past year on issues that no one has previously dealt with. First of all, I think of Serbian language learning standards, and I have to say that already I don't know which way and here in the National Assembly, it's not the point that members of national minorities don't learn Serbian. It is not that members of national minorities do not want to learn Serbian. On the contrary. The point is, according to outdated programmes and plans, this has not been possible in the past decades. If I wanted to learn Serbian at school, I wouldn't be able to speak Serbian here today. That is why it is very important for us to take this first step after 15, 20 years, and we now expect new plans and programmes to be drawn up and I am sure that this modernisation of programmes and plans will lead to national minorities easier control of the Serbian language and will be more competitive in the labour market of the Republic of Serbia. In addition, it is very important, and this applies to Mr. Sarcevic, it also applies to you, Mrs. Brnabic, since you mentioned co-operation with the International Monetary Fund and, of course, with the World Bank, and we do not mind, of course, that Serbia co-operates with the two institutions, because we are not able to economically or politically in what kind it is, for example. Hungary, that the Hungarian government may allow itself not to co-operate in this way with the International Monetary Fund, but please, Mrs Brnabic, when you discuss rationalisation, about saving with representatives of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, always pay attention to the specific position of education in minority languages and not to remove the departments and finance funding in the native language for members of national minorities linearly. We've been able to save, as in previous years, a few departments that were scheduled to shut down, but trust me, the savings aren't as much, they can't be as much in minority education as they can be damage when the minority language departments are lifted. Of course, it should be kept in mind that the whole system is rational. We never expected departments with two or three students to be opened, but wherever that is rational, these departments must be preserved in order to preserve education for members of national minorities wherever possible. I was just talking about very important infrastructure projects. I would like to thank Mrs Mihajlovic for having an understanding in the previous period of some infrastructure projects that are important not only for members of national minorities, not only for the Hungarian minority, but for all citizens, and not only in Vojvodina, not only in the northern part of Vojvodina, but for all. First of all, you won't be surprised, about the "ipislon-scrat," about the tour around Subotica. It is one project, Mrs. Mihajlović knows perfectly, but I am speaking for the public, which has been built for 30 years and now a few months, after 30 years practically, we have managed to open up one share thanks to which Subotica has received another exit on the highway, another leg. It's not just about the citizens, it's about the economy. New jobs are being opened, all who invest their resources, who create new jobs, I mean mostly foreign investors, want to get to the highway as quickly as possible, and the citizens of Subotica want to get rid of them after 30 years of getting out of the center of Subotica. That's why it's important that 197 million were singled out last year, this year 300 million, for next year, a billion are planned, and for the next year, for 2019, 800 million dinars and after 32, 33, 34 years we could finish the project. I heard, thanks to the wise leadership of both the government and the ministry, that some more funds will be released, so I will lobby both with the minister and with the Deputy Prime Minister – Mihajlovic and some of the other factors within the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so that some more resources can be allocated to go faster, if there is an opportunity to do so, so that we can round it up as soon as possible. The same applies to the Palic project. Palic already has, and more should be among the three most important, the most significant tourist spots, the tourist offer of the Republic of Serbia. Palic has what to offer, as well as the whole of Subotica, and this will lead to the resuscitation of the whole region, which will be contributed by the Belgrade-Budapest railway and another railway that is very important to us, which is very little to mention, but very important, it is a line of Subotica-Segedin-Baja. I have a light-moving, one such little fix idea that even in the last two centuries, it's come true where the railroad goes, now it's less like it was in the late 19th century, but it still works. There's life there, there's businesses, there's jobs, there's improvements in standards. That is why we care about both the "ipislon-krak" and Subotica-Segedin-Baja railways and Belgrade-Budapest and the development of Palic, etc. These are not just issues for Saturday, these are issues for the wider region and this is important for the wider region. In some previous years, we have not only managed to provide funds thanks to the understanding of the Government of the Republic of Serbia with these projects, but rather, in this year alone, the local government of Sente will get about 700, 800 million dinars, whether 700 or 800 million dinars, but we don't know yet, that's the order of the annual budget of Sente. Only this year, only from republican means that co-operation is excellent with the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that we do not come here for nothing to the National Assembly every day when the National Assembly is in session. There's something else I'd like to say to Mr. Nedimovic. We care very much that he managed to fight with Mrs. Brnabic to amend the Agricultural Land Act. That's one question we've been up against for years. We are not against competition, we are not against foreign investors, but we are for the protection of domestic agriculture, and we are for that if no country that has entered the EU has immediately liberalised the agricultural land market, it does not do that either, there is only one error in the exposure. It says there within 100 days we have 60 days to amend the Agricultural Land Act. We're ready to do it in July and August. Thank you, and we support.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18185	Thank you. The word has an Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18186	Just to thank, indeed, a terribly constructive attitude and always very, very good co-operation with the Hungarian national minority, and this government will work, as you know. As far as all the other projects are concerned, that's what it's all about. An additional 5.5km open in August on the Y arm of Kelebija-Subotica. I expect in the term of office of this government to complete the work at the National Theatre of Subotica. Certainly a reconstruction of the Belgrade-Budapest railway because it is high on the list of priorities. As far as the agricultural country is concerned, that's what's left, just to clarify in the previous half, I don't think that's certainly not the populist measures we're going to do, and we're certainly not going to have a problem with that our way to the EU. We do not prohibit sales, we will strictly limit it, but this has been done by other EU members, Poland and Estonia and Latvia, etc., so that, as I said in the exhibition, is a parallel practice, and it is important for our country, for our country's agriculture. Thank you so much for your cooperation in the past, and I look forward to continuing such cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18187	The word is Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18188	Ladies and gentlemen, former MPs, future MPs, ladies and gentlemen, or ministers, ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected Prime Minister Brnabic, for known reasons, you know the position of Unique Serbia, that we cannot vote for you to be Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, but we have nothing personal against you. We've been building this country since 2008, Ivica Dacic and I, the whole of Serbia, that thanks to us, the programme government was made, that it was very difficult to change the policy of the 1990s and we didn't make a mistake, we reached a pragmatic conclusion. I supported, i.e. Unique Serbia supports Alexander Vukic as president of the Republic of Serbia. Since the 10th rally, I've spoken at four rallys. And, of course, we won the convincingly remaining opponents because Aleksandar Vukic, as Prime Minister and as president of Serbia's largest political party, has done a lot of good for Serbia. I will just, through a few sentences, say why we will not vote for the mandate, and why we have to take care of political stability in Serbia in the continuity of government, or NGOs as authorities, but the law, because Serbia has never been more popular in international relations than it is now. When I was at President Alexander Vukic's inauguration, I can tell you that I didn't expect so many representatives of states, over 50 representatives of countries from all over the world, to come to Alexander Vukic's inauguration. That was impressive. I was also at the inauguration of Donald Tramp and based on the number of people that America has and the number of people that Serbia has, more prominent people were at the inauguration of Alexander Vukic than on the inauguration of Donald Trump. But immediately the second day immediately afterwards, some wanted to abuse the LGBT population and hold a rally. Well, it's been a few days, then a rally in Nis. I've got nothing against these people, and I'm not against violence, but everything you want to do, you're doing in four walls, and not that what's inauguration, they thought now everyone's going to be doing gay parades and all the media is going to write about it. I don't know how many journalists called me, I didn't want to comment at all, because I don't care anymore. What I had on that, I said. My MPs, five of them and I, have been drawn up by family and programme, and we have thus created a party called the Unique Serbia. We don't do this for political reasons and for political points. This is our life. That's how we were born. Our belief is so. We don't humiliate others. We do not underestimate others, we respect all ministers and, as so far, for all that is good for Serbia, our party will vote. You know what, there wouldn't be so many parties in Serbia if everyone thought the same thing if we were all in one game. Ivica Dacic and I voted against some laws several times, while we were in the government with DS, and I voted yes and vice versa. Also, I have to say, our coalition relations with the SPS are at a very high level. A unique Serbia in the coming period will deal with how to help ministers, and I can tell you that we have great experience and that our result is visible and well-known. I am glad that the ministers who are proposed, the people with the biography, who have their own result, and Popovic who made a big firm in Russia, who does nothing in Serbia and others, even Branko Ruzic, do not know if it is there. When it comes to Vulin. Is Mr. Vulin here? When it comes to Vulin, I think that function looks like him and looks like him. And, if he had said something several times that everyone was silent and I saw that what he was saying, he wasn't told by the Prime Minister. But as long as we Serbs keep quiet. You know, if I said, patriotism isn't poured into the tractor. But we cannot wait for our heads to go to the EU, we must keep what is dignity, a Serbian, Orthodox people. What is the tradition of Serbia, not as others command us to. When it comes to the Army of the Republic of Serbia, it is important that we be militaryly neutral and not go where the people are killed, because Serbs know what it means, aggression and NATO aggression and everything we experienced in 1999. I also have a few ministers to commend. Health Minister, Finance Minister, Home Secretary. You know, in 2003, police beat up workers in Kragujevac, or Kragujevac, who went out to the streets to fight for workers' rights. Then I was at the head of a column of these workers and I told the police, first you beat me, then the workers behind. Many strikes were in Serbia. I didn't see a cop push a striker away and hit him. Security is at a high level. What happens to murders can't stop anyone. It's a misdemeanor in a criminal group. Chuck, I can tell, and this Minister of Agriculture isn't a bad minister. I will especially commend Minister Zorana, I don't know if she's here, I don't see her from here. What she suffered after Alexander Wolfie and who attacked her, it's an honor to her as a lady. To me, Anna Brnabic is a lady. I'll never say a bad word. It is my right to think differently from someone who says – this is good. I think my friends and friends from the J.S. think it's different. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1994, I formed the Third Child Fund and every family in Jagodina, who had a third child, received help in money, in food, in wardrobe. I even got to support an eleventh child in my family. Then the family had a tenth child, the Milenkovic family from Donji Račnik, near Jagodina, and they only have two rooms. I say, wait, how do you make kids and two rooms? They say - we need noise, noise. I tell them, if he's born eleven, I'll support him until I'm old. It hasn't been four months, this couple came to tell me, and here's how many years I've been supporting that child and helping that family. It's not a demagogy. I also built a church in Concharevo, called St John, to go to church and to marry a man and woman, to baptize a child, a married couple, a mother and a father, and to cut off cakes when we celebrate the baptism of glory. It's our sacred place. No one can ever take that away from us. Why will we from the Unique Serbia continue to support Alexander Vukic? He made a few moves. His authority "Sartid" in Smederev has returned. Not that he got on his feet, but that factory works again, people get paid. Here, now the Chinese are talking to Bor to buy RTB Bor to help that mine too. A large number of investors came to Serbia thanks to Alexander Vukic. I must say that Ivica Dacic, as foreign minister, also has great merits and that in this direction we from Unique Serbia will behave in the coming period. We cannot vote for Lady Ana Brnabic's election as prime minister, but since the package also calls for ministers, we apologize to ministers. We don't have anything personal against Anne, but we have to respect the attitude. It is the democracy of a party and what is called life for us from the Single Serbia. This is where my parents interrupt me. He says: “You better stop. ” We didn't insult anyone, let me tell you. We respect you all and appreciate you. Everyone has the right to do whatever they want, it's not discrimination. In Serbia, I guarantee you, there are now three million citizens who would like to be Prime Minister, but the Prime Minister is not the first among the equal. When I say that, I don't want you to think anything about my friend Maya. Maya, my friend, left her name and name, went to the polls, went to the local elections in Novi Sad and won. I don't mind a lady, and those are different sexual orientations, but for one function like this, I think there must be one particular biography. If I've offended someone, and I hope I haven't, let them forgive me. This is a question that couldn't change for us. And, let me tell you, no one pressured me or my MPs, nor did the Prime Minister convince me. He once called me to ask me if it was my attitude. When we were at his house, when they were consulting, he asked me, "What if it were Lady Ana Brnabić?" I said, "We are against it." I asked him: “What can I tell the press? “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” He said, "Say the same thing to me" and thank him for it. This is what I want to deny when someone says, "Well, nobody can do anything in Serbia, fear Vukic". That's not true. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18189	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18190	The previous question for this government and for all of us is why are we choosing a new government today? As I recall, the previous government was elected less than a year ago with a president who had exposés for six, seven hours, no interruptions, no breathing, and I don't know what it was. There was a program for the next four years. You boast that this program is accomplished in a perfect way. The same Prime Minister said he would never run for president of Serbia, so I wonder why we choose a new government today. Probably because someone lied. Let's guess who it is. As usual, we have an exposé of the prime minister, she said she supports virtual reality, digital entertainment and visual effects, and I quote, and that's true. The whole exposé and all the promises we've heard are on the subject of virtual reality, digital entertainment and visual effects. It was a custom, of course, and it also marked the previous government. All those big fairy tales about how our GDP is the biggest in the region, that it's been cut, half-shared unemployment, that we're the most valued in the world, that we're going to have the Danube-Vardar channel, that we're going to have the Belgrade-Bipest track, that this is going to be, that it's going to be, that it's going to be solved, that it's going to be a helicopter affair, that it's going to be solved for Savamal. They're all virtual lies we've been listening to, and in that sense, Mrs. Prime Minister was absolutely right when she said this was going to be the government of continuity. Digitalisation, new technologies, education, these were the biggest pieces of exposure to words that should raise the optimism of Serbian citizens for what we expect with the new government. I am asking a mandater with which qualifications, with which experience, with which business, management experience do you give yourself the right to educate Serbian citizens in these areas? Finally, digitization, new education technologies, of course it's all good. There's no doubt about that. My question is, what happened to those toilets in the schools? That was the promise of the previous Prime Minister. Is that settled? Whether digitisation gets its confirmation that it's active and that it's the result of the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government's work that's still waiting on health books, these new, good, excellent, but they're not there. The ones we got, we have to take ten more papers with them because they're worth nothing. What about public enterprises? I heard a piece of information that he absolutely doesn't believe we're among the two, three countries in Europe by a small number of civil servants. That can only be true if it's a fraud. Only if you've been moving people from public administration to public enterprises by trucks can that be true. Otherwise, the City of Nis, I don't know about Belgrade, I remember by chance, had 800 people working in the city administration in 2000, and today there are 2,300. That's one example. Not to talk about public enterprises. The promise that regulations will be laid down to reduce the possibility of selling agricultural land to foreigners is the same virtual reality. First, long ago, foreigners can buy agricultural land in our country by establishing an enterprise in Serbia with 100% foreign capital, which is for written people a stranger, and then a business that is formally Serbian, which is actually owned by a foreigner, buys agricultural land, and it lasts for a decade. On the other hand, it seems that these changes that need to complicate the purchase of others apply to these foreigners who are not your strangers, but not to go into those details. It will be the minister since he elaborates sometime. Generally, the exposé came late, but there was enough time, who could read, read and hear what was said and make a few comments on some seemingly small things. In a biography that was delivered as a résumé, I expect she wrote it herself, since that would be completely logical, it says of herself that she was appointed minister a few years ago. To meet the Minister for State Administration and Local Self-Government and the future Prime Minister, not to name the ministers in Serbia, but to choose. It is not a writing error, as it is repeated in seven, eight places, so some candidates for ministers are honored to have been elected to some earlier functions and some to be appointed. It's not a mistake. The second case, that foreign company Asamakum or Asseco, as it is called, and it has nothing to do with the fact that a high-ranking brother, the highest official of a state, has jobs with the same state and that it's all right, because they're full-aged, so that's the same continuity, and that's what we've had so far, the same situation. That, of course, cannot be in accordance with regulations, with morality, with anything that has to do with the 21st century. It's as clear as day. Did it go over NAD, that she happened to be the chairman of the board of directors for a while, if I'm not mistaken, so it's like some wrong street, some Herzegovica, where it was supposed to go wrong. Let's not talk about it. All the people who sit here are full-aged and know what it means when a close relative works with a country. Don't talk in the land of Domanovic and Nusic what it means. There are no exceptions, even if they're the most honest, it's inadmissible both in perception and conduct. In the same biography, the prime minister said, he boasts, is the alleged fact that she worked in "Continent Links Serbia" and worked on wind parks in Kovin, which were worth 300m euros. There are no wind parks in Kovin, but there's a wind farm, as far as I'm reading the newspaper, opened by another company, which is MK Komertz's empire, and this whole business wasn't worth 300 million, but 15 million. So, what's the conclusion? I'm telling the facts, no charges. The term of office may have worked on wind parks in Kovin, but there is nothing to do, and there may be none of that work because its assessment of the value of these jobs is 20 times higher than the real cost of the same job. The government's plan is to connect Serbia with Europe and the world, and then it goes, says the EU's continued path, partnerships around the world, close co-operation with countries in the region and the KIM. I'd like an explanation for this. How, if the policy of this government is that KIM cannot recognise their independence, how is it possible to be part of the First Head, which is called – connecting Serbia with Europe and the world? Kosovo, probably also the Metohija, are probably in Europe, it is doubtless, but it is completely pointless to stand in this part. How the Kosovo issue will be resolved is a different story, but it must not stand in this part, or you have violated the Constitution, or preamble to the Constitution, before you start doing your job. There is no excuse, nor can European integration experts help you explain something that is inexplicable. We also have candidates for ministers. Of course, I am glad that Mrs. Brnabic is the first lady to run for office, but I don't think there are any basic conditions, and I repeat, nothing personal about her doing her job well, because she has no experience in any job that has anything to do with the performance of Serbian Prime Minister and, on the other hand, that job is a necessary political power. Anyone who tells you fairy tales about experts, that's a nice story. Experts, of course, have their place in any government, in any institution, it has no doubt, but at the head of the government there must be a man with maximum political power. It's either the first man of the largest party in power or someone next to him. It has no doubt, and that even Vukic himself said it would be half the prime minister's place, half will be Brnabic's, half will be Dacic. I don't want to imagine what that's like. Who are the candidates? Behind the mandate is Ivica Dacic, foreign minister. It would be good to hear what they're talking about. It would be good to hear from him too whether the position of the Serbian Foreign Ministry or the attitude of someone who was born in Prizren to be found in a segment called – co-operation with Europe and the world. Is that the position of this government, is that the SPS position, is that the position of coalition partners? My question for the vice-president of the future government and foreign minister – are we ever going to get an answer to what happens to two officials and an ambassador from Libya? They've been killed in the last year and a half, we don't have any information about that. We cannot be satisfied with the work of any ministry that cannot tell us that the ministry's workers, citizens of Serbia, died. We've heard all sorts of stories about it, some very ugly, but we need to know the truth, and their families and the Serbian public. It is the responsibility of the Foreign Ministry. I'm looking for those answers. Of course, Mr. Dacic is an old politician by internship and I'm not surprised he's in this government. Only one is more successful than he is here, but I'll talk about him later. The second candidate is a candidate for Home Secretary. Loaded with suspicion of the correctness of his doctorate. It's not the first time I've opened it. It's not the first time you've heard it. It's an unspeakable story yet. I'd like those digital, technological and scientific powers that represent our mandate officer to be used for a quick analysis of all fake diplomas, everyone's fake diplomas, whether she's from higher school, college or she's a doctorate. But the Minister of the Interior, one state being accused by the public, without any judgment, whether it's academic or judicial, for that matter, is a very bad thing. It's a fake, if that's true. That's a question for Stefanovic. I'm growing Ljajic. We're all surprised that he's the minister again and that surprise is very big. I don't know if he's here. If he's here, I'd just like him to keep a good watch on that office he moved into in 2003. And there used to be some serious people, so let's watch that space. Professor Dr Zorana Mihajlovic, candidate for Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Three Things. I expected you, Mrs. Mihajlovic, to be the prime minister for this government. You have everything that Mrs Brnabic has proposed, and that is both experience and political power. Vice-President of the ruling party, perfectly logical to be in the position of Prime Minister. Political experience dates back to October 5th. You yourself said that you participated in the events of October 5th in front of this building. It's that disgusting touchdown, that dossal backgrand and experience, and I honestly expected you to be in a higher position, but, well, I make a mistake sometimes, too. Dr. Dusan Vujovic, an absolutely economist of renome, has no story to tell, and we will not get into it at all, just with one problem. Allow yourself to say what his profession and experience and integrity tell him, like the other day in Vienna, then ban him from talking for the next seven days. And when he justifiably accuses those who do bad work in the Serbian government, he must remain silent afterwards. I understand that in some way, but I have no excuse for that. Goran Knezevic, candidate for Minister of Industry. We've known each other for a long time, and it's one resourceful man and all his colors look good, so I have nothing to transfer to that appointment. It's a surprise on Mr. Ljajic's level. It was logical to get that appointment. Nedimovic, future minister of agriculture, forestry and water industry. I was already talking about the topic of buying domestic agricultural land from a stranger's apartment. I don't think that's supposed to rise to the level of demagogy, but to make legal regulations that will put into the same level with the same conditions both foreign and domestic. They call me from the Vrbas municipality, from the village of Kucura and some other villages, to tell me that 240 and some acres of land have not been leased for years, because it's held for someone, it's being held for someone. Minister, you have to... If it isn't, then it's very difficult that you can't have a fertile dukeland betraying anyone. You don't put that on the tender, not that no one's gonna take the lease. So, you're doing a little bit of that. Goran Trivan is a candidate for the Minister for Environmental Protection. I hope that the recommendation for this place is not that it has been the city secretary for 10 years for environmental protection, because the smoke still felt with Vince could not have happened if everything had been done both at Belgrade level and at Serbia level to prevent it. I hope that there is a way for environmental protection in Serbia not to be a political issue and not to accuse Brussels or praise Brussels for doing something, but rather to be the day-to-day behavior of all of us. Alexander Antic. I hope he's feeling better. I'm not gonna say anything about him today. Nela Kuburovic. The biggest problem or one of the biggest problems in this country, and that's the judiciary. Is he under political influence too much and inadmissible, is it corrupt? Both are partly true. Of course, most people who work in the judiciary are honest, honorable, responsible people who know they do their job in a valid way, but enough is to have five, six, 10, 12 percent of those who are tasters of this or those political options or who receive money, no matter who gives it, to spoil the situation in that area and that area is in a catastrophic state. It has nothing to do with the mandater, but the promises you made that would change quickly, no, it's a political issue, it's not a technical issue, it's not a question of digitisation, it's a political issue, that the law is above power. It takes someone powerful to fight for it. Branko Ruzic is finally in the government. It's a great help to Mr. Dacic that... I don't know what, but there's something about it that seems like something that's connected to the SPS, so I don't want to do it. Alexander Vulin, candidate for minister of defense. That's enough to say. I don't know what I could add to that. It's a surprise unseen. God forbid we're going to have quiet next few days and months, because what we've seen happening in his term in some other places doesn't indicate that peace is waiting for us, but whoever suggested it should deal with it. Jadranka Joksimovic should tell me why Kosovo is in the foreign policy part of this programme. I know you've now tried to explain the mandater, so you'd better tell us, MPs. Charcévic. I don't want to talk. It's grief and trouble with education. There's no money, that God's father couldn't handle. We have again for the health minister of the man who's in the files of the murder cases of Zoran Djindjic, and that's an unsolved matter. Whether it suits you or not, it's my job to remind the citizens of Serbia of that. Anyone who doesn't believe should look at the case files. Zoran Djordjevic. What did you do to get thrown into a ministry run by Vulin? There's no harder punishment. It's some big mistake, probably. Vanja Udovici. What do you need that for, boy? You're a great athlete, a good man, what are you gonna be... ?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18191	Thank you, 20 minutes. You just left the culture out.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18192	Just in the end, please, another sentence. So, ministers without portfolios, I don't want to comment, because it's ministers for nothing, and how many of you are sitting outside the bench.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18193	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18194	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected Mrs. Brnabic, Mr. Stefanovic, Mr. Vulin, do not be very concerned about the discussion of the former federal interior minister during whose term of office was killed by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. He said he was called from the Warbas municipality, and I was just called right now and sent a fax from the Nis Military Department. He says: “The date of birth of December 22, 1960, Nis, Pantely, Moravička 22, schoolkeeping - no data, school - no data, no interest – economic technician, specialist. Recruited December 25, 1978. Capability — incapacitated, minus one’. According to military regulations at the time, I quote: “this meant the state of the most severe dysfunction of functions. ” On June 20th 2010, this man who is in a state of the most severe dysfunction of functions was granted a permit, Mrs. Gojkovic, for the gun of the "Counter" brand. So much for what schoolwork he's got. As you can see, there's no data. The health condition can't be worse, the condition of the most severe dysfunction function, but that's why a man has a gun. Please, Mr. Stefanovic and you, Mr. Vulin, can you deal with this case a little bit? You know, when you put a gun in a man like this's hand, there can really be problems in Serbia, but I'm convinced that you're going to do your job in a quality way and that all citizens of these will be completely safe.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18195	Thank you. Replica? Here you go. (Zoran Zivkovic: He can't. How can he not? It really has nothing to do with that. Sign up. Marko Djurisic checked in before you did, and so do you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18196	So, first of all, the street isn't Moravička, it's Mavrovska 22. It's true when I'm recruited. It's incorrect that I was then declared incompetent, and it's the Minister of Defense, the current one, he knows well. I asked him to give me the paperwork and he knows it. For your information, it was a lie, recruited, which took me in January 1994 to join the army in the guard, excuse me, 1984, but in 1983, I had a serious car accident that caused me to be in bed or on crutches for the next year and a half. That's what the paperwork says. That's what my Nis knows. Because when you have a year and a half of a man walking around with crutches, everyone remembers him. So let's not get into that part. As far as the guns are concerned, ask the authorities why I have the guns. The first time I got my license was in 1994. Everything else you've said is a complete lie, incorrectly, and it's part of what you normally represent in this beautiful country, in this beautiful country of Serbia, which is a bad state when such people can get the right to insult other people. I would not want anyone to see what happened to me, to avoid any obligation, anytime, anywhere or any of you, or any of Serbia's citizens. That dirt you speak of speaks of you, not of me. About my patriotism, about my tolerance, about my relationship with this country, they'll never be able to tell people who don't have the courage to look in the mirror in the morning, let alone talk about someone else. (Radoslav Milojic: Why wasn't Vulin serving the army? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18197	You'll get your word when you get your turn. That's tomorrow. You, replica. (Zoran Zivkovic: Little tomorrow.) It's not a little tomorrow, it's tomorrow. I just have to delete the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18198	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mrs. Gojkovic, I lied nothing. From the official documentation of the then Military Department in Nis, I read the information about a gentleman who spoke briefly, who respected ministers as he did lobotomy, told the minister one by one. Here it writes well – the school store has no data, the school has no data, incapacitated for anything, but, as you can see, he was able to get a "Number" gun in 2010 and if he is in a state of the most severe dysfunction of functions, he was able to be a federal interior minister. Now I don't understand how such a man can represent himself as someone who fights for the rule of law. I agree with what he said. Here, Mr. Stefanovic, I really ask you when you are re-elected as Minister of the Interior, to seriously deal with such a case, that a man, who obviously has serious problems and is in a state of the most severe dysfunction of functions, can get a gun for the number in 2010, and a little earlier, although he is in a state of most severe dysfunction, he has received about 400 to 500 000 euros in subsidies for vineyards that he has never planted on Fruszko Gora. It is also a question for the Minister of Agriculture and for all other competent ministers in the government. As you can see, you've only got a lot of work to do with one man. I wouldn't be in your skin, I think you'll have a lot of hard work to do in front of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18199	Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18200	President-in-Office, I believe that you have injured Article 107, which says - the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and then continues to speak how MPs should address themselves in the National Assembly. He has been injured by your inaction to sanction all those MPs who have sinned against this member of the Rules of Procedure. I mean Mr. Zivkovic and Mr. Martinovic. If you find it offensive to expose Mr. Zivkovic, then that is why Mr. Martinovic can say what he said here, I think it is wrong and that it is not in line with the Rules of Procedure and that it is your obligation to end such a discussion. If there was a need to interrupt Mr. Zivkovic, rather than give in response to, allegedly, his insults allow insults by Mr. Martinovic. I think this session is extremely important, probably, something that citizens are following the most and, indeed, I would not want us to continue this way to discuss the choice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18201	I accept your suggestion. You have the word. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. ) No, you have no replica, I accepted the suggestion to return to the agenda and stop with the alleged insults, as Marko Djurisic said. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18202	Thank you. President, respected Mrs. Brnabic, candidates for ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, fellow MPs, we are today continuing with a practice that has existed for five years in Serbia, that after a short time we are choosing new governments of the Republic of Serbia. This is the fourth time we have to choose, to have a new mandate, to have new or old ministers. We've had a few reconstructions in the past, and it's very difficult then to listen to the exposés and promises that in the term of a government, or this government that is being spoken of on that day, some jobs will end, because we never know what the government's mandate is. The term of office of this government should be three more years. Some promises have been made here, as promises were made in August of last year, which have not been fulfilled so far. The government, elected in August, has today completed its mandate, formally. This puts us MPs in a difficult position, how and why we should believe what is said during the debate in the National Assembly. When the president of the Republic came out with a proposal for prime minister for the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, the first reason why the SDS-NPS parliamentary group decided to oppose is the first sentence of the mandate, which is that the new government will be the government of continuity. A government that will continue what has been done in the previous year, i.e. in the previous five years. We've been against every government in the past five years, so we'll be against this one. The second reason is the personal composition, which we learned yesterday, in which there is no minister who lost his post in relation to the previous government, and we have three new ministers. We believe that a large number of ministers, even if they have been watching these past year, have not deserved to be in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and we do not see any positive detail from the biography or part of the new ministers' programme, so that we can support it. The third reason is today's exposure. What we've heard from the Prime Minister is, in our opinion, a list of good wishes, that some work will be done that hasn't been done by people who haven't been able to do this job so far. Let's start in a row. What the previous government did was quite clear that a new government would also work if it was elected today. How will she fight for the rule of law and the rule of law? I would start with the direct impact of the current term of office, and the former Minister of State and Local Self-Government, and I am talking now, only about that part of her work, as a minister, in the past ten months, from the corner of the MP. We've seen Mrs. Anna Brnabic here twice. The first time she explained the amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government, in October of the month, when she explained that local self-governments are eager to reduce the funds they received as part of the participation in employee income tax and that it will not make any problem, how local self-governments are ready, and how the government will reward this potential lack of funds for some good projects. What are the results after a few months of the law? To be honest, it's not just about that change, but it's been working for the past five years. This is what the Fiscal Council announced yesterday, that the debt of local self-government threatens to bring down Serbia's public finances, that it has grown to over a billion euros, that the City of Kragujevac is facing bankruptcy. That's said by the Fiscal Council, which is most commonly used here, as an excuse for the government's economic policy, which has been led over the past four, five years, which in our opinion is bad, and I hope I have enough time to explain it. The second time the minister was here, she came and asked for a deadline in the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, which meant to be extended by six months by January 1st of this year. She said then – I will send the law to Parliament within this time limit. That deadline expires in two days, we never got that law. How are we expected to appreciate the work of Minister Ana Brnabic in the past ten months? Is it a struggle against the gray economy and the fiasco with the organization of the citizens' lottery when a gray market of envelopes was originally created on the basis of which the citizens could apply? Is this an alleged prize for work transparency, and for almost a year, since 12 August 2016, when the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government were due to take over the employee register, it did not happen. That register doesn't exist. The State Department and local self-government have not fulfilled their obligation. Let's move forward on the responsibility of the entire government and on the deadline within which the election of directors of all public enterprises should be completed. The deadline expired on March 4th of this year. No director under that law, almost one, seems to me, has been elected, but in the meantime, many executives have been appointed. All of them were high-ranking party officials. All of them. So, there was no detachment, and that's what the previous government is responsible for, in which I repeat, all the ministers are here today before us. All of them. How has the fourth branch of the government of independent institutions been strengthened? With constant attacks on the Protector of the Citizens, on the trustee for the protection of information? The National Educational Council is now being shut down, or virtually its complete debauchery. The electronic media regulator does not exist or at least does not operate the function for which it has been chosen and we have spoken and seen, all witnesses during the spring election campaign this year. Is that support to the Anti-Corruption Agency that doesn't exist, no director? There are two out of nine board members. These are all the results of this government. Whether or not what has qualified, and now I come to some personal solutions in the new government, one rotation of two ministers, where the minister in charge of social protection and labour passes to the post of military minister, and the former minister of the military should take over this first resort. What's Mr. Vulin qualified? Is there a law on financial protection for families with children? That bill hasn't been passed in three years. Three years he's been promised here and hasn't been brought up to this day. Now in one sentence is in your exposé, not in what you said, but in this broader version. All I could do was find the need for that law to be passed. But until today we don't, we have three years of promises. As we have our promises... I'm asking the president to... I'm just talking about the results of the work, and I'm really not insulting anyone. How did the previous government fight for social protection and social justice if pensions were reduced? Pensions were reduced two and a half years ago with a story of a temporary reduction to three years. Then that three-year term was abolished, so the creature has been told before. My question to you is, are you going to abolish the Law on Temporary Pension Reduction or at least show the citizens that it's not temporary by eradicating that word from the law? Now a few words about what you didn't say in the exposé. The first thing is the Law of Origin of Assets. Each previous exposure contained that sentence as important for the fight against crime and corruption. You didn't say a single word and the bill, as far as I could see, was not mentioned in these 88 pages. If you don't know and you don't have a solution, you have a solution to our MP's club. It's located and was sent to you a few days ago. You have not said a single word about fighting poverty in Serbia. Serbia is today the country with the highest degree of threat and poverty in Europe. Serbia today is the country with the biggest income difference in Europe. It's official World Bank statistics. You have not presented a single measure of the government on this issue today to the MPs, and not a single word has been on the subject of freedom of expression and free media in Serbia. The problems and the fact that Serbia is at risk of freedom of expression and freedom of the media are in the last few years in each European Commission report. If the European course is what needs to determine the course of this government, how come some of the plans, some of the measures, haven't found any ideas on this subject in your exposé? Now I'm going to finish to give my colleagues a chance to say and I'm just going to tell you a few dates -- July 27th, August 31st, September 28th, October 26th, November 30th and December 28th. It's the last Thursday of every month by the end of the year. As the new Prime Minister, I invite you and introduce you to the obligation to come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, each last Thursday of the month, as the new Prime Minister. Your predecessor did it three times in three years. I read you the dates, mark them in your calendar. At 4:00 every day I expect to see you and show you that you are different and that you are the ones who put this government together, not someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18203	Anna Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18204	Thank you very much. There were a lot of things. I don't know where to start. What the previous government faced, which I had the honour and pleasure of being a part of, and what had to be done to introduce at least one minimum order in the state administration and what I was talking about in my exposé today was to introduce that order, very difficult and very painfully, but it was up to us today to build on it. For example, to start with this – that we left huge deficits, all the deficits in the previous period before 2012 was financed because there were no exports and there was no production, investment by borrowing, which is now being paid. Today, this government pays for that borrowing. Let me tell you, for the citizens of Serbia, I think it's important, because that's amazing data, so you work in this environment in this kind of economic environment that this government is doing in 2016, where the government only spent 131.6 billion dinars on interest only on interest for the debt pool. Just to explain to the citizens that the 131.6 billion dinars in 2016, which were to be made as government and supported by the economy to make them just to return interest, is more than all the subsidies paid from the Republic, the province and all the local budgets combined, totaling 112.7 billion dinars. That's how much we only gave in 2016 on interest returns, just a little less than all the total capital investments financed by the state in 2016, so you work as the Government when you're left with such a fantastic ambience in which you should work. This deficit that was spent, and the money that was spent, so they had no place to make up for it, and then they took it out of debt. These interest rates were 7.25% in 2011. So the government immediately had to take new money at 2% a year, to return those 7.5% interest a year, so that the state could at least somehow start working. I think I mentioned, when I said, that it was enough to finance a 150km highway a year, not to make 150km of highways in Serbia, but to make 150km of highways every year. Well, then you, who knows, should work fantasticly in such an ambience. As far as ministers are concerned, and I don't think it's particularly correct that here, when not every minister can answer for himself to insults, without problems each minister individually calls out and professionally... (Zoran Zivkovic: Candidates. I apologize, candidates for the Minister and ministers in the Technical Government...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18205	Don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18206	... and personally and professionally. It's not professional enough, we have to do it ourselves. What, could we have a better Minister for European Integration if we opened ten chapters from 2014 to today and closed two? For sport and youth? Since 2014, this is what I didn't know, I have to tell the citizens of Serbia, because it's fascinating to me, and I'm proud of being part of such a government, from 2014 to today, 103 medals have been won. From 2000 to 2014, 117 medals were won in 14 years. We can probably find a better sports minister. Youth unemployment rate in 2013 is 39.5% of youth unemployment. Today, very high, but 28.5%, 11% less. But it doesn't surprise me, it really doesn't surprise me when we can debate here, make fun of ourselves, and think it's funny to talk about virtual reality, digital entertainment and all that, where there's about tens of thousands of young people working in that industry today, but it's funny and it's the subject here of some artistic verbal figures, how this government is working on virtual reality. It's not funny when tens of thousands of young men work in that industry, they all do their own jobs. Well, you see, when you look out for it, then 11% decreases the youth unemployment rate in two years. Infrastructure, since the government has done nothing in two years, just to point out once more for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, although it seems that the citizens of the Republic know it, because they voted in the elections, but it doesn't matter, I can and it is my duty to say it to the MPs, of course, who may not have all the information. Infrastructure, here, let's start with the construction and the infrastructure being launched first...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18207	I apologize to the prime minister, just so the vice president can finish talking to the opposition. She's done. E, thank you. No, you're intruding the work. It's not the turn of the chair to have someone chat with the MPs while someone's talking. We learned that a long time ago at home, let alone in parliament. I apologize to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18208	So, perhaps we should remind ourselves that for the first time in construction, it went to Serbia to introduce an electronic administration and that the problem that was the biggest problem for all investments was solved, not foreign, but foreign and domestic and entrepreneurs and citizens, for the issue of building permits that could not be solved for dozens of years before that. Today we need five days to issue a building permit. In 2014, it took 90 days, only building permits. The whole process was about 245 days total. As a result, eight and a half thousand sites are active today, fewer than 500 were in Serbia as a whole. Health care, therefore, Minister Loncar, whom I am proud to have accepted my call and that in my office, who was a man, or man, who was the most feared way of attack, was still doing his job, getting up every morning, going to the office, fighting. And it is interesting information, for example, that by 2012, and this is a terrible data, in 2012, Serbian healthcare did not meet the criteria for evaluation within the European Health Consumer Index, nor did one. So we couldn't even meet on the list. When it finally met the criteria, we were convincingly worst rated throughout Europe. So, today, Serbian health care has been in the past two years, I'm talking about Minister Loncar and what a man has done, all the attacks, despite all the attacks... People's MPs are getting it. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18209	I ask the MPs to calm down and allow the mandater... (Vladimir Djukanovic: You remembered well. What do you say? I ask the MPs to calm down so they don't take a break after I hear a throw from both sides. I think it's crossing some line and my tolerance. So it applies to everything, because I hear from both the right and the left very ugly throw and it's to me personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18210	I thought that health care might be a little more important to some MPs and that they would be pleased to hear that over the past two years, therefore, only in the past two years Serbian health care has progressed 12 places, that it is no longer the worst in Europe, and that Serbia today is taking a 24th position on this European list, that it is in front of eight EU countries and that in 2016 it brought the country's title with the biggest progress in health. As far as justice is concerned, three representatives of the court, two judges, have been arrested in ten months for taking bribes. So, there's transparency opening up. I don't know, when we say this government didn't have results, I say what ambience this government came to work in. With these results, I would be proud if you chose me as Prime Minister, if we could replicate something like this in this term of the next government, and with this situation in the register, we don't have to pay the entire budget for capital investment on interest to repay the loan. As far as local self-government is concerned, Nis has been mentioned. Nis, like most local self-government, was a place to hire everything and everything. Nis has since finally been numbered by civil servants, which was 2013, since they had not even counted before, in December 2013, Nis had a total of 6396 employees. Then December 2014 6173 employed, then 6042 employed. It was coming down slowly. Last December 5885 employees. The optimal number for Nis, since it is now known for every local self-government, and it was not known before, is 4.321 employed. Well, you see, when we talk about party employment and results, was there a party that won as much local self-government as the Serbian Progressive Party won? I was pleased to be Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government when that party didn't tell me one word not to protect some people or personnel there, but told me to continue optimization to reduce the costs of local self-government. These are just some of the results of the previous government, and I said in what conditions did the government start working.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18211	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18212	Thank you, President. I'm advertising Article 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which I believe you have injured, is that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated by the presentation of Prime Minister Brnabić and that you were obliged to react. First of all, we all know how sensitive you are, as you say, to the tent dictionary and inappropriately speaking some words, so I thought you should have immediately warned the previous pay phone when it came out about the MPs so that they laughed here in the National Assembly. We're also used to maybe her unconventional and clumsy expressions, but I was hoping that she'd get better in the meantime, learn to come to the National Assembly, understand how to communicate with the MPs and really make sure even when she gets nervous or when she runs out of arguments to discuss it with us. The second moment when I think you have violated the dignity of the National Assembly is when you have allowed the previous speaker to present incorrect information, or to present them in such a way as to deceive the public. I would recommend that it better consult with Mrs Joksimovic, who would certainly explain to her that neither the history of the Republic of Serbia nor the state began in 2012, when the prime minister stated that the negotiating chapters had been opened rapidly, it was already the only way to open up, by first gaining the status of the candidate of the Republic of Serbia in 2012, and before that was to end the period of co-operation with The Hague court. So that period has fallen to previous governments, and these governments have come to an end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18213	Please be patient for two minutes. So I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. The verb "dry" exists in Serbian and means to joke. Just take some textbooks, respected colleagues, take a little interest in one of the breaks. I can also give you some examples in sentences when it is used most often, and not in an offensive context, otherwise I would react. I have no excuse in front of anyone when it comes to the purity of Serbian language, believe me. (Marinika Tepic: Can we use all the words from the Serbian dictionary? I'm sure you'll be interested in the accuracy of my allegations. Did I hurt the Rules of Procedure? My question is, shall we vote on it at the end of the session? (Yes) Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18214	Thank you, Chairman. Members 108 and 109, especially this part of the sentence. I just may have reacted inappropriately to you a little while ago, because you really haven't been able to say a little to the primitiveism on the other side of the pitch. I don't want to repeat these words that have been cast here by the prime minister because it is not appropriate to the Assembly, but you have been obliged to protect her and all the people that the gentlemen on the other side are so insulting, that it really doesn't look like the National Assembly. I ask you to punish such messengers in the future. We did not come here to the Hajduk Assembly, but came to the parliament of the Republic of Serbia to listen to the exposés and, of course, to hear what the new government is offering us, to have some constructive debate. If we're going to be offended, please let's stop the session, because this doesn't make any sense. I ask you to punish such MPs in the future, and I am sorry that the lady, who had just reported her injury to the Rules of Procedure, could not hear such primitiveism from her colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18215	Ambassador, I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure. I warned, in fact, I asked the messengers to speak more quietly, you know that it is impossible to ask everyone to keep their mouths shut when anyone is speaking, and you threw it very loudly to me – you remembered well, so I did not respond. So, please, we have the same criteria. I don't want to turn this session into anything else, I want to talk seriously about the mayor's exposé. The word is made by MP Marko Djurisic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18216	Unfortunately, it is obvious that this government will continue to embellish false statistics of a harsh and sad reality in Serbia. We're talking about some economic growth again, when he's the smallest in the region. We're talking about some reduction in the number of unemployed, when these numbers are now officially disputed by the Fiscal Council. We are talking about alleged interest on loans, and without saying when and how these loans were taken and taken, because we here in this Assembly were giving guarantees for loans at 6%, Minister Vujovic, at the end of 2014, when the interest was 6% for "Srbigas". The economic situation in the world has changed dramatically over the last few years, and that is the main reason for the current positive indicators. But what you said in the exposé -- we will continue to reform public enterprises, no, you should start them, because the reform has not started in these five years. Start reforming after five years. And another picture of how this exposé is just one story about good promises. I loved the term of office – to restore confidence in education. I think it's an extremely important thing, but I'm inviting you, in order for that to happen, you have to do one simple thing. All the diplomas of all your members of the government will be checked immediately. Any call every one of them for a checkup, so if they pass, we can restore trust in education.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18217	Thank you. The word is Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18218	Thank you, Madam President. You surprised me a little bit, they told me I was late, but I'll talk anyway. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm hearing a lot today about the past, a little bit about the present, and even less about the future. Often this past is faked, it turns out to be better. There is little talk of the present, and I am interested in the fact that we see how we lived, how we live, and how we live in the future. There's a little bit of that here. There's little talk of results, and I would still go back to results, because the results we have, this government is a government of continuity, will know what awaits us in the future. I stress this because we can't live off the past, especially those who make our past so much better. The splendor of the past, the depreciation of the present, means the stolen future. Now, I really want to talk about the present and the future. Let's talk a little bit about beauty, and there's a little bit about beauty here. Of the 193 countries, only 11 countries are headed by the women's government. Serbia will be the 12th country of 193 countries headed by women. Isn't that a nice thing? Doesn't Serbia change? Isn't Serbia different? No one's gonna talk about the results, and I just want to talk about those results. And this is one result. Why didn't you make it? The 15th government of this country really has a wife. I say, and I remain proud of this fact. Right at the beginning, I would like to point out that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group with great responsibility will vote for the Prime Minister to be Ana Brnabic and for her cabinet. I stress that because I believe the cabinet is well formed and will produce results. Why am I behind the fact that we're going to support Anna Brnabic? Well, because she's educated, because she's professional, because she's competent and because she has results in her work. Indeed, there are results, and that is what she has shown. Because it respects and appreciates teamwork and because there will be full coordination between the Government and the President of the Republic, and for Serbia it is very important and you know that each co-habitation has been very bad and that it is good that this type of full coordination will be between all. I will say what this government will characterise, I will highlight five key words, that is stability, continuity, economic reform, the EU and foreign policy. I'll start with each of these words. Stability. Serbia needs long-term stability on the political, economic and foreign policy plan. Politically, we have this stability, regardless of all the events we've had. I'll just count some of them. It is a migrant crisis, Brussels negotiations and Kosovo, co-operation with neighbouring countries. When I talk about the migrant crisis, you know that millions of people have gone through this country that it was really undetectable in the sense that they were all fed and medically protected and that even now in this country we have between six and seven thousand migrants and that Serbia has no problems. We have also shown our European qualities, as many European countries have not shown this level of sensitivity to the migrant crisis. About the Brussels agreements and Kosovo, it is hardly possible to say anything except that Serbia has consistently respected what was agreed on. We expect the other side to do the same, unfortunately, we do not have these results, especially around the Serb community. Further, co-operation with neighbouring countries. Serbia is in the Western Balkans, but you often know for yourself when you have electoral activities in other countries, then Serbia first comes to the point. Problems, Serbia is the problem, there, here etc. Serbia acted really consistently in these situations, did not accept any provocations, and we will continue to do so. So we have made all our neighbouring countries aware – we are for good neighbourly co-operation, but we are taking care of our interests. It's a long-term interest in Serbia, not that it's some kind of situation that I don't know for what reasons. This is important and important for Serbia. Let's move on, Serbia needs continuity. Why? We are going towards major economic reforms and political reforms. We're famous for going into reform and on the first obstacle we give up. No, Serbia needs continuity in economic reforms, but it also needs continuity in political reforms, there is no success in economic reforms if there is no political reform at the same time. Here's something about some results. There have been few speeches here and the results in the financial consolidation are often underestimated. I have to point out the following. It knew where Serbia was, but no political furniture had the courage to go into financial consolidation. You know, it's easy to make a budget deficit of 6.6%, so let's take it easy and easy on 1.7% of GDP. Now, this government, the previous government, has succeeded, has continued to lower the budget deficit. We will certainly have less than 1% of GDP this year, and I expect in 2019 that the budget deficit will be 0.5% of GDP. It is a sustainable budget deficit that is better than in many European countries. Of course, it also carries with it the decline in our debt that we have in relation to GDP. He's already going below 70%, and be assured he was only over 76% three years ago. No one is talking about that result, and that is the result of this country's citizens. They paid the highest price. The highest price was paid by pensioners, whose pensions were reduced, and the highest price was paid by employees, but they are aware of the facts because they knew – if there is no financial consolidation, the state of Serbia has bankruptcy. If we had continued as we were going, we wouldn't be in a situation of paying a billion and 300 million for interest, until it came to two, two and a half billion and the state of Serbia would be bankrupt. Now, that's the result, that's the life result you don't want to talk about here. There's talk about all the other stuff, and that's not it. And another thing, GDP, you know that he was falling, that we've had a fall since 2009 and beyond, that we've succeeded, despite the floods in 2015, to raise to 0.8%, in 2016 to 2.8%, this year we go to 3%. Why are we talking about GDP? Do you know that 7.2 million Serbian citizens produce somewhere in all these years between 30 billion and 34 billion euros. Now, that's our GDP, what we've produced, we can share. The state of Slovakia, which has 5.4 million citizens, produces 74 billion. Now, if we talk about Serbia, 5.4 million people in Slovakia have 74 billion euros in GDP. It tells us where we are, how long and persistent it takes to work, develop, invest in investments, invest in jobs to move on and move on. We often say what and where to invest. In her opening statement, she said that areas where we have quality are agriculture, energy, IT sector, traffic, tourism. I will immediately say, please, the IT sector, no matter how underestimating it is, I will even correct the mandate, I have the information that 740m euros from the IT sector and 700m euros from the export of raspberries. Also from corn exports, there is approximately the same figure, therefore, the IT sector is our future. I can proudly say that one number of my students did a very large business just working for strangers, and that's just selling brains and online programs going through. If I don't keep talking about some data, they're famous, let's talk about employment. Did you know that in 2008, we had two million employees, two million and something, that we were further falling and falling, that only in 2016 did we get a figure of two million and nine thousand employees? So you don't think that I'm saying now that Serbia is living well, that Serbia is a prosperous country, right now, to tell you that in Serbia it is still difficult to live. You can't live better if we don't increase GDP, unless we already have results in that part. It is the Social Democratic Party of Serbia that will seek to increase both salaries and pensions, but from sustainable sources, therefore, what is reality, from the fact that it can be long and sustainable, rather than some kind of borrowing and further borrowing. One more thing, we want a socially decorated country. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia insists on a broader social consensus where Serbia is going. Are we going to go to make sure that the minority lives well, lives richly, and most live hard. Our position was, it will always be that we must have a broader social consensus. That those who have the least, must have, to have one dignified life. This can happen if we have new jobs, new investments and everything else. I said before, there is no success in economic reform unless there is political reform. There was no talking here about changing the Constitution. I believe that the Constitution we adopted in 2006 is the 20th century Constitution. He was brought in in a turbulent time and he served his time. Serbia needs Constitution 21. Eternity. Serbia needs the Constitution of a modern European country, where we will have the rule of law, the independence of state institutions, the current division of government, that citizens live with dignity and that we have a social state. But if we open those questions, we have to have a wider social consensus. We don't have to open these questions, if we can't agree, if we're going to go into division, if we're going to go into differences, which are usually characteristic of us. Now something about the European Union. Let me tell you right now, we have 10 open chapters. That's a big score. That's a big score we've got. These are huge steps towards the European Union. We have two closed chapters. That's good. By forming ministries I expect further steps, I expect you to open new chapters and be confident that in late 2018, I expect all chapters and a number of closed. At the end of 2019, we have to finish our work. When we join the EU, then, after that, it will be a political decision, it will not depend on us. Of course, I commend the fact that in the exposé, the prime minister stressed that this government will continue to lead a balanced foreign policy. It is our EU's strategic goal, but we are also very much facing Russia, towards China and governance and foreign policy, and we have to keep in mind that Serbia is a small country and that in these turbulent conditions it must take care of its own interest, as long as it can and as long as the possibilities allow it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this government, which I said was the Government of Stability and Continuity, continues the path of the previous government, which has achieved very good results and is tasked with continuing this path and translating, to say this a little bit, to Serbia from one analogue state into a digital state. This is the new Serbia we are talking about or, as we would say in the political dictionary, we want Serbia to translate from the past, division, division, poor development into a modern European state. I am absolutely certain that this government will carry out its full mandate. At the end of the term of this government, I would like to, and I want to see, and I am sure that I will see, that Corridor 10 will be completed, with all the ipsilon arms, the bypass around Belgrade, the southern arms and the eastern arms; that Corridor 11 to Cačka will be completed, that the Belgrade-Budapest railway will begin and be at the end; the Fruskogorska Corridor and the tunnel will begin through Fruska Gora. I'd like it to be finished, like someone who lives in New Sad, but at least start it. I also expect that Serbia will be a better standard of living on a real basis and that it will be desirable for the lives of all citizens of this Serbia, but also for our surrounding countries. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will vote with responsibility for the government you propose and will support all your efforts to implement the intentions of the exposé. I know it won't be easy, but when it was easy for reformers. Their work is appreciated and respected much later, not when they are in the current government. I wish you good results, a lot of work, and good luck, because you'll need happiness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18219	The word is Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18220	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers' candidates, Mrs Brnabic, you will probably be sitting in the chair of Nikola Pasic by tomorrow, although to him and others Domanovic has dedicated that satire to "Vodja". So everything you say, everything you do will go absolutely to your cheek but also to the face of Serbia. First of all, I have to thank you for your exposés only taking a little more than an hour, unlike your predecessor's exposé last year, ten months ago, six hours ago to make him a six-month official prime minister. I hope that you will be prime minister for longer, not because I am afraid of the election, but because I think Serbia is tired of both marketing where you are an expert and so much of the choice, so let's see what you can do. Let me tell you right now, that our MP group, the NS Movement for Rescue of Serbia, will not vote for you and your cabinet. First of all, we believe that your engagement so far is unqualified for this post as Prime Minister. You've never participated in an election, and you don't have electoral legitimacy. All your electoral legitimacy you draw from Mr. Alexander Vukic, and it seems to me that you even said it yourself the other day on "Pinka". You're also talking about this being the government of continuity and continuity policy and you said it in the exposé, and of course you were talking about how you came into a terrible situation, a very bad environment from previous governments. I advise you to consult your current coalition partners, the SPS gentlemen who were in continuity, with little in all previous governments. As for the very choice of your cabinet, or the selection of ministers, we see that the rest are practically more or less all ministers in the government, although many of them do not have good results, have no results. We see that one date has been made and that the ministries, or ministers without portfolios, have been introduced. It's very unusual for us to find out, let's say for a minister without a portfolio after we've finished discussing the Ministry Act. Of course, he doesn't have to, he doesn't have to be mentioned here under the law, but it would have been nice and well if it had been mentioned that he would have been the minister. First of all, I'm asking a rhetorical question, and that's what qualified you to be Prime Minister? First of all, let's start with your schooling. I saw you graduate from college abroad and that's nice, I really don't mind. However, for example, your Hull University is ranked somewhere in the Shanghai list between, I saw on the internet, between 600 and 800th place, while the University of Belgrade ranks 401st. Therefore, you did not end up Ivy League, as a genius from Yale, Mr. Krstic, who was the chief confidant of Aleksandra Vukic, and he, like this, sank from the chief confident to the black hole, into total darkness, and no one knows what happened to him anymore. You entered the government a little less than a year ago. A few months before entering the government, the public found out about you, because there was some scandal between the company where you worked and between Mr. Vukic's godfather at the time. That's when you sided with the godfather. I did not learn this from “work – Mileva” but reported and wrote by KRIK, who received a prestigious world prize for his reporting the other day. As for your own achievements as part of the ministry you led, we also did not remain particularly impressed. We have seen that you have now received a greeting from the Fiscal Council, or it is said that the Government is a terrible debt that local self-government, cities and municipalities have made and that it can also mate somewhere with government debt, and that Kragujevac, who is ahead of bankruptcy, is preceded by Kragujevac. You also admitted yourself that you agreed to illegally employ a certain number of people who are talking about a number of 5,380, and the journalist Cvejic received information in court that it was about 9,000 people, although we know that employment was banned, and that was mostly party employment. Of course, you said yourself we don't have a big one, but we have an inefficient state administration. That I must admit is a step towards changing certain attitudes. We'll find out very soon, because it will still be your conductor's bat, and that will be led by Mr. Ruzic of the SPS. So, all the opportunity, Mrs. Brnabic, is that you were brought to this place because your predecessor actually came, so to speak, that he realized that the time had come to deliver those great promises he made, that the debts had come to payment. He, in our opinion, escaped to the presidency and brought you here. You have painful and severe cuts, political, economic and social. With my exposé, I have to tell you, you haven't convinced me of anything. Your exposé is devoid of visions and awareness of the state of the country. You didn't say a single word in that exposé, nor did you use words like freedom, such as democracy, such as the rule of law, respect for institutions, and of course, what is the cancer of this society, about freedom of the media, about the tabloidisation of the society that has reigned and the fight against the tabloidisation of society, you didn't speak a single word, and especially not about freedom of the media. You will also face difficult and political challenges and economic challenges and social challenges. As far as political challenges are concerned, it is primarily the question of KIM. That's not what I'm saying, that's what everyone who comes to talk about in this country says, because everyone appreciates setting up foreign-political and internal in Serbia according to what the relationship to KIM is. Since 2008, we have all been clear, and we are all witnesses, that without twisting Serbia, it is made clear that without recognising Kosovo, without establishing good neighbourly relations, as a psychiatrist, I am good to you and say that we cannot have good neighbourly relations with ourselves, because then something is wrong with us. So, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Good neighbourly relations with Kosovo cannot be further progressed in the EU, and you here are the subject and you have begun your exposure, that the EU is a pair of excels, i.e. the main objective, the main strategic objective of your government and your policy. Today, Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic is seeking talks on Kosovo. However, here is the fifth year since the signing of the Brussels Agreement. It has seven months as the state code is given, as the property of Serbs in Kosovo, the state of Serbia, has been delivered, rather, to the Albanian side. However, you, Mrs. Brnabic, will be the one who will be sent to shake hands and speak to Haradinaj, and others will show their clean hands, as much as you speak in your exposé of relying heavily on Mr. Vukic's president. As far as the EU itself is concerned, you know that we are Eurosceptics, that we are in favour of calling a referendum, so that it is immediately clear in which direction our country wants to go. You did not mention this referendum and the possibility of examining the people's will in your exposé, and you didn't say, say, how you're going to get around certain chapters, let's say, I think Chapter 29 is this thing about customs, where in the end it says that we're still going to have to cancel that free trade agreement with the Russian Federation and other countries with which we have free trade contracts. Furthermore, the question which is a few excels politically, and I ask you to listen to this, because I would like to receive, Mrs. Brnabic, a direct answer to this question, because you as Prime Minister tomorrow must have an answer to this political question, yes – how will you set yourself up according to the status of employees of the Russian humanitarian centre in Nis? Are you going to give these people diplomatic status as no more NATO troops have or will you not? I expect you to have a clear view of it right now. As far as this economic work is concerned, that's where President Vukic promoted you to be the economic prime minister, and as the second prime minister, politically, will be Dacic. Of course, he immediately broke the Constitution. And there are many questions that you have not answered in this exhibition, which is the question – what are you going to do with many companies? What you're going to do with an EPS that produces 22% less than last year and interferes with GDP being 3%, and we need that 3% to get to those famous ones, to get out, first of all, from a hole in the '90s, but also to get to the pay level, as promised by your predecessor, 440 euros, not to talk about 500 euros of salaries that have been promised for two years, and never to arrive. In your exposé, you didn't say anything about what you would do specifically to give young educated people a chance. We are the 140th country with the ability to retain trained personnel, and abroad there are 300,000 highly educated Serbs and 5,000 non-plagiar science doctors. Will you continue to be in charge of the IMF and thus build a colony from Serbia? What Mr Nebojsa Katic would say, who is an extraordinary financial consultant, a Serb living in London, welcome to the colonial future, if such a policy with the IMF continues. What are you going to do with salaries and pensions, and how are you going to fix it, because a promise has been made that wages and pensions will slowly return to that level since the previous kidnapping, from 2.5 years ago? This is indeed the Government of Continuity, because the Government of Mirko Marjanovic, where your predecessor was minister, owed 20 salaries and pensions. The government in which he was the Prime Minister has taken away some of the people's wages and pensions, and it's up to you now to fix all this. As far as the social plan is concerned, there are very big challenges ahead of you. Will you change this neoliberal labour law that turns workers into slaves? Will you help the families with the children? What do you mean, for example, it has to do with social welfare, to include the Serbian diaspora? There are three million Serbs who send people to help in a social way, helping people survive the end. The Ministry, for example, didn't open the diaspora. Although there are three million Serbs there, the diaspora could help in another more constructive way. I have to tell you that 30% of people in Serbia live worse than social cases in Slovenia, and 60% of people live worse than social cases in Germany. It means that high school professors, that officers, cops, nurses, people who work in culture live worse than the German sociale. I see, as far as your staff is concerned, there I remained a little caught up and I wondered if it was possible, let's say, that after this state of health, which you do praise, but around the scandal that broke out around Nis Mr. Loncar still remains a health minister, despite mob calculations in various towns of Serbia, and Savali Mr. Stefanovic remains a minister of the MUP, Mrs. Mihajlovic, who was covering up the affairs with road construction and the Corridors and she remains a minister? You've changed, you've rotated two ministries, so we, I think, will now have two ministries of social affairs because Mr. Djordjevic, who will now deal with social issues, could deal with the social affairs of his officers and soldiers, and for Mr. Vulin, here's the press, so I'd like him to plead whether he served the army. As for these ministers without portfolios, I would certainly say that I am sorry that the family ministry is not much of a ministry, but we only have a minister without a portfolio. We have Mr. Krkobic here who is an invisible minister. We've got a new minister, the Minister of Innovation, as if we don't already have the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, and innovation really is the fruit of science and technological development, and it shouldn't be the Ministry of Research. We, Mrs. Brnabic, will not vote for you and your cabinet. It's Vidovdan today. It's a day of great fame and the loss of the Serbian people, and I think the vote for your government is a vote for Serbia's death.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18221	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18222	Respected and offended citizens of Serbia, Slobodan Milosevic was timely delivered to The Hague tribunal right on Vidovdan, and today a new humiliation of the Serbian people and all those who respect traditional and family values in Serbia is being repeated. Again on our greatest holiday, we are dealing with something I truly believe is completely contrary to the spirit of Vidovdan. The basic scam that is actually under the new government of the Republic of Serbia is that Ana Brnabic is headed by the government. That's not just true. This is the fourth government of Alexander Vukic. The first was formally led by Ivica Dacic from 2012 to 2014, while the main prime minister was then P.P.V. The second and third were led by Vukic personally from 2014 to 2016 and these few months until today, and then fled from the post of Prime Minister. If someone as prime minister for the government's composition maintains seven hours of long exposé and promises a series of epochal successes by 2020, and then after a few months of leaving the post, then it cannot be characterised differently but as a cowardice and running away from responsibility for unfulfilled pre-election promises and cover-up, hiding behind someone else who will come to the post of prime minister, and in this case behind you, Ms. Brnabic. The reality show of Alexander Vukic continues. The question arises – why did the new president just propose to Ana Brnabic to mask the fact that he is still headed by the government of the Republic of Serbia and why did she accept to participate? Let's not forget, Alexander Vukic is not the president, nor is the prime minister, he is still just the minister of information, propaganda and fear. I think that when Alexander Vucic proposed you to be the prime minister, he had absolutely nothing but how the Western public would react to it. He was not interested in how he would react and what the Serbian people would think about it. You're another one of his marketing tricks. It was important for Vukic to pass on to the world that Serbs for the prime minister for the first time had their wife, Croat and lesbian. The wolf wants to come with you, Miss Brnabic...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18223	Please, MP...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18224	I was just quoting the world media. I don't know what's controversial. I was quoting world media and headlines from the world media. I wanted to say something completely different. With this appointment, that is, Alexander Vukic's proposal only wanted to wash his biography from the past, re-distribute to the Western centers of power and thus hide the true nature of his government. What he's being blackmailed and this way he's trying to get away with is one thing, but what you're helping him with, Miss Brnabic, and what you're making an alibi for what he's doing, that's your responsibility. Let's go in order, welcome, and we don't mind, on the contrary, having a woman lead Serbia. Women today are a better part of our society, more valuable, more dedicated, more loyal. After all, the woman did not betray Kosovo and Metohija, but the men – Aleksandar Vukic, Ivica Dacic, Tomislav Nikolic, Aleksandar Vulin...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18225	MP, today I have shown maximum tolerance for MPs and allowed them to express their political views at this truly important session. What I will not allow is for sure that you are insulting either the president of the state or the first Deputy Prime Minister of Foreign Affairs. I'm asking the ministers to listen because it's about you. I will not allow you to insult or call any politician in this state a traitor. (Glory Ristic throws.) You're not funny. If that was your goal. I don't mean Bosko Obradovica, but you and don't be the only MP to get a ticket. You insult the prime minister, you think that's quite all right, and that's what your voters are asking you to do, if you have them. I will not allow it, and at least I will allow, indeed, qualifications that some traitor is in this country and that he has recognised Kosovo because in Serbia no one has recognised Kosovo. (Bosko Obradovic: It is a political stance. And that's not the political attitude you're making, it's the insolence. You can't do that. Political views are something else. Truths, lies and qualifications are something else again, and I'm telling you in advance, if in that tone you want to speak, you can appeal to all the international factors, and I'll punish you. (Bosko Obradovic: May I continue? )......................................................................................................... and sign that I have punished you for bringing out such monstrous qualifications for the people who lead our country. I won't let that happen. And since you wrote that, you can hand it to me. (Bosko Obradovic: What can I give you? That speech, since you won't be able to say it, I didn't say it because you wrote it. (Bosko Obradović: I can. Can I go on? Well, well, whoever wrote it anyway. What do you say? (Bosko Obradović: All right. That's very correct. All right. I think we have a deal. I've made my intentions clear. So there's a premeditation to punish you if you continue in that tone, you don't have to think. I'll give you a press conference, no problem. (Bosko Obradovic: Can I continue? Here, try it. Okay. How much time did he spend knowing? Here, here's the rest.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18226	Thank you. I wanted to say something else. We need more women in politics and head of state. But I don't see a word in your exposé that would rightly begin to solve women's real problems in Serbia. How can women get fired when they stay in a different state? Why can't they even get a job because they're planning a family? How do they match motherhood to a business career? Why are they getting more and more sick than the most severe diseases? Here is the information that 200 cancer patients have only been fired from work since the beginning of 2017. How do you start a woman's entrepreneurship or help a woman's life in the country? So you're not brought in to solve women's problems in Serbia, obviously your role is something else. We don't know, you haven't spoken out, your views on KIM, NATO, Srebrenica, The Hague, but we know you've worked for American companies and NGOs all your life. I take it out of this that's what recommended you as prime minister. The question is, will you, as Prime Minister, continue to work for American companies and NGOs? That's the real question, I'd say. What do you have to do with the Masons, Miss Brnabic, and do you have two Masons sitting in the government? At least two. What is very important is whether you are actually reminding that character who plays the legendary Bata Stojkovic, in the cult film "Who sings there" and who says at one point "let me go, I am faster and more skilled" to lead Serbia into the EU, NATO, to introduce sanctions to Russia, to sign Kosovo's independence, to sell out remaining natural and economic treasures, to continue the arrangements with the IMF to our damages, etc. You, for example, mentioned the life of Serbs in KIM, but not in which country they live, nor did you mention what you would do to preserve KIM in Serbia, you even put it in a section concerning co-operation with others. So KIM is something else for you, out of the state of Serbia. He was right when Vladimir Djukanovic said in a recent interview, "Politici", that Vucic had suggested Anna Brnabic -- that she significantly buffers the pressures from the West, and those we otherwise have on the internal political scene, in the sense that she is resisting criticism from the liberal opposition. If I understood the former fire radical well, and current fanatical advance Djukanovic, Ana Brnabic was proposed to please the West and Cedomir Jovanovic and other Serbia, according to which Vukic apparently has special affections. So the government's policy, led by Ana Brnabic, can only be more pro-Western, which implies further continuation and deepening of our colonial position compared to the EU, NATO and the IMF. Here are a few specific questions for the prime minister. First of all, I want to ask you this, do you, Miss Brnabic, agree not to be the only Prime Minister, or not to be the only prime minister in this government? Will you be in charge of the political part, and Mr. Ivica Dacic for the economic part? Is there a government with two prime ministers anywhere in the world? There is no two-headed prime minister anywhere, it is an anti-constitutional category, it is pointless and it makes it clear to the people that we will not have a prime minister, or that the prime minister will continue to be Alexander Vukic. What I resent to you, very openly, is that you agree to play Wolfie's game and be his mask, so that every time something bad is done, every violation of pre-election promises, every thieving, every crime and corruption, you'll just be masked somehow by him hiding behind you and saying, here we are the most modern government in Europe, here we respect human rights, etc. Here are specific questions. Your biography says that from 1992 to 2000 you worked as a media officer between institutions in Great Britain, from Serbian pro-reform parties and NGOs, including the time of the NATO pact bombing of Serbia. Do you know that this kind of officer work, translated into Serbian, is called a foreign agent?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18227	MP, you're giving your qualifications again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18228	I was just quoting the part of the biography that you delivered us.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18229	Give me that biography, see where you delivered it to say it was a foreign agent.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18230	Okay. Here's another question then. Is it true that, like Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, you belong to the East Bridge, part of the Trilateral Commission, and what does the foreign organisation have to do with Serbian interests? What I think, in fact, is that your appointment, in fact, is the achievement of the advice that Tony Blair, a convicted war criminal, gave to Alexander Vukic, as his special advisor and that you finally came to that place Tony Blair suggested, which is to be the coordinator of all ministries in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, on the advice of Tony Blair, and that the Prime Minister remains Alexander Vukic. Here are some more interesting questions. You have admitted that it is true that you are being prosecuted before the Belgrade Criminal Court for driving in an alcoholic state, but you have not admitted whether you have a misapplication of the Ministry of Agriculture's Environmental Protection Agency for breach of the Production Waste Regulation. So, you're proposing the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which is fine, and you've violated environmental law yourself at a private company. Is it true or isn't it true? Is it true that you defended Vucic's godfather and then the director of the EMS, Nikola Petrovic, against charges of seeking bribes by a company whose head you were? Did that, perhaps, recommend you to the minister and now the prime minister? Is it true, this is particularly important, that you are in close, friendly and business relations with Cynthia Mali? Is it true that your loan rate for a flat in downtown Belgrade, of 400 m2 worth half a million euros, is higher than your salary in the government, and where do you finance the payment of this loan? The same question, of course, concerns the origin of the property of Ministers Vulin and Loncar, but this is a problem with the fact that we still do not have the law on the investigation of the origin of the property, which is also promised by Prime Minister Vukic at this place a year ago, and therefore we cannot examine the origin of all politicians and tycoon's assets from 1990 to today. Here are some more interesting questions. Is it true that you're a journalist, this is particularly interesting, which has been investigating your work in the US NGO, under suspicion that you're taking $10,000 to local self-governments in Serbia to set up a meeting with the minister, on Twitter told them to go and wrap the charms? Is that the right attitude towards women? Is that woman's sensitivity and tolerance? Do you, as a participant of the Gay Parade last year, agree with one of the ideologists of the promotion of homosexualism in Serbia Predrag Azdejkovic, who said these days that a change of constitution will be before the new government and should insist that the definition of marriage as only a union of men and women be expelled from the constitution. The government has already pledged to legally regulate the same-sex communities under a special law. Is that your attitude? Is that the government's position you'll be leading? We need to know what's waiting for us in the performing period. Are our kids gonna have dad and dad or are they still gonna have dad and mom? If it is true that you have been a press consultant for President Miroljub Labus in time, I ask you - have you read the latest interview for your former head, who, while you are setting up the European Integration Ministry, advises, quote - that we should stop at the ball and freeze negotiations with the EU by 2020, until the EU has frozen enlargement? Here are a few more very interesting questions. Is it normal, in your opinion, that only after a few months in a ministerial place where you haven't shown yourself, nor was it time to prove what you know, you accept the post of prime minister so easily, even though you know that no one has voted for you, nor have you ever participated in the elections? In a year you'll be remembered for three things as Minister of State and Local Self-Government. The first is that you were on a "gay parade", the second is that you took eight billion incomes from local self-government and the third is that you have so well organized a system of publishing new health books that citizens can't get them for a year. Just when you started to make E-Government right here, the ruling majority of the e-Government Directorate was shut down, so I was wondering, did you maybe take it home? Are you taking her to the new cabinet of the Prime Minister? Do you want to keep the entry jobs that the Electronic Administration Directorate will assign to companies close to your American friends or does that actually want to place all the databases in Serbia through the Electronic Administration Directorate on the menu of certain foreign power centres? What is a very important question – are you aware of the following things - are you aware that you did not choose ministers? Are you aware that you did not provide the majority for the formation of government? Are you aware that you cannot control any party president who is the minister in this government? Are you aware that for the slightest decision, you will have to go to the Wolf's Cannabes and beg for his help? Finally, are you aware that you are imposed on most Serbian citizens as Prime Minister without having any electoral legitimacy for this? As for your exposé, which is more like a literary composition from high school, I have to say that there are good places – entrepreneurship, cooperatives, the modernisation of public administration, the introduction of social maps of socially endangered categories of the population. Well done. But the question is simple -- why didn't you do it for five years? What were you waiting for? You didn't know that it was important for cooperatives, entrepreneurship, to introduce social maps for socially endangered people, to modernise public administration. I don't understand how many years it takes for you to do anything? As you did a year ago in this same place, Vukic promised to legally limit the sale of agricultural land to foreigners and, of course, none of it. It is clear that the wrong economic policy to fully support foreign companies, which has been so far, will continue, while domestic economy and agriculture will get nothing. There's no ministry to worry about the family. There is no concern for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, for Serbs in the region and dissipation, for traditional religious communities. And believe it or not in your 90-page exposé there is no word - diaspora. You forgot that there are Serbs outside Serbia. You haven't devoted a single sentence to them, let alone the Ministry. What I'm still trying to say for the end is, your help in fighting the white plague has been seen when you've allocated twice as much money from the state budget for this purpose than for the fountain in Belgrade. We saw your concern for agriculture when you are for full cooperative, pay attention to this data, complete cooperativeship, organic agricultural production and young farmers in Serbia are in total to help financially how many foreign companies have come to Serbia. Four thousand Serb villages, 600,000 agricultural holdings, received not as much as one company, but half of what was obtained as a subsidy by a foreign company that came to Serbia. And it's a picture of your government and concerns about the attitude towards domestic economic interest, Serbian agriculture and the village and the care of foreign companies that you've been working for all along. We saw your reform of education when you introduced sex packages and the promotion of homosexualism into our schools. How much you care about security we see from your plan to populate Serbia with migrants and make one of the largest asylum centres in Europe. How much you keep Serbia from your intention to sell the PKK, Belgrade Airport, Telecom. Your concern for workers is best seen from the fact that you rent people on the lease and that those in certain foreign companies have absolutely no labour rights. I particularly reject attitudes that can be heard from the opposition that Ana Brnabic is good and her environment in SNS is bad. This is an extreme hypocrisy because Ana Brnabic is actually part of this SNS team and alibi for what they do, and behind it they hide. She took it. It directly participates in this criminal and corrupt regime, giving an alibi for various things, from beating up journalists, through media darkness, to everything we have today in Serbia. So, Ana Brnabic is part of it, not an exception, and I disagree with my colleagues in the opposition. No SNS and SPS voters, to be clear, voted for Ana Brnabic and the decision to be prime minister is contrary to most Serbian citizens. Let's see the government's composition. In the government, you have one former "Julician", one "Dinkic", three "DSS", one former "Democratic", the majority minister, Rasim Ljajic, to whom this is the 10th jubilee ministerial mandate, and I demand that he be awarded a jubilee award. A special pearl is a military minister who did not serve the army, which was born in Novi Sad, and has graduated from the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac because there is no university in Novi Sad and Belgrade and most interestingly, in the biography of Aleksandra Vulin, this is a total hit, there is no period before 2000. His first job was a deputy marketing director in 2000. There's no Alexander Vulin before 2000, and you're supposed to be hiding that part of your biography. You're absolutely right there, Mr. Minister. The biggest rock star, Branko Ruzic, who, in his time, spit on the government, is now licking what he was spitin' because the chair was probably...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18231	MP, come on, you're like some kind of Serbian language teacher. That's what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18232	I'll be right. I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18233	And it's not much. I thought it was one. If you'll let me finish in my own time. I'm trying. I hold on, but I'll hold on.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18234	Thank you. So this government is a political "Frankenstein". This government is the highlight of DOS. This government is anything but a Serbian government. This is the colonial administration that rules Serbia on behalf of the EU, and therefore it is best that the National Assembly in Voting Day refuses to trust Ana Brnabic. That would be a real psychic, Serb response to Aleksandar Vukic, and as far as the Serbian Dvora movement is concerned, there is no dilemma, we will vote against this government. This is a humiliation to all Serbs on Vidovdan.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18235	Alexander Martinovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18237	Please. I'm asking you to get the Prime Minister's first answer. I'm asking for your understanding. Anna Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18238	Thank you very much. I had to react because I was surprised. This is a very liberal position for a party you represent for two incredible reasons for me. It's about Kim first. The question arises – why didn't I as a candidate for Prime Minister in my exposé at the National Assembly of Serbia make it clear which state of Serbs in Kosovo are living in? It's amazing to me. Why would I talk about it in an exposé, a fact that's clear, unquestionable and written in the Constitution? Obviously, this fact may not be unquestionable to you, since for an hour and 20 minutes it was just a question – why didn't you tell us in which state the Serbs in Kosovo live? Perhaps you should read the Constitution of Serbia and then see which state the Serbs in Kosovo live in. It makes sense, it matters if the KIM ministry is sought, and then all of this together makes sense to those who do not know which state Serbs in Kosovo live in. They're probably looking for the KIM Ministry, since we don't have a Ministry of Vojvodina, we're not gonna make it, or the Kragujevac Ministry. As far as the Serbian Information Centre is concerned, it's another amazing thing for me, here's the same amazing attitude, I was really surprised by the MPs from this group. Yes, while I was studying in Great Britain, I worked for a while at the Serbian Information Centre in London. It was at the time of Serbia's bombing, when the hardest thing in the world was that I wasn't in my country while they were attacking her. I worked at the Serbian Information Centre, which was located, even though I think it is today, located at the Serbian Orthodox Church in London. Easily verifiable. I suppose now you'll tell me, after that, that you don't know which country the Serbs in Kosovo live in and that the Serbian Orthodox Church is probably a foreign agent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18239	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18240	I would like to thank the President. I'm advertising Article 107 and Article 109. The Rules of Procedure of the Council of the Republic of Serbia, because after this way of expression and vocabulary who unfortunately heard Serbian citizens and that million auditorium, I think, Madam President, it is high time to establish the principle of zero tolerance for MPs who in the most harsh way insult the dignity of this home. Here, you've just heard how you've done it and how one painting, extremely ugly, is transferred from this home to the citizens. I don't know if you heard Mr. Obradovic, in his first sentence, when he said - offended and humiliated citizens of Serbia. Is there anything that could be scarier than such an insult to the citizens than these spoken words? Is that the two million citizens who voted for this ruling structure? Were those citizens who, dear fellow MPs, elected us in this assembly? Who are these citizens who are humiliated and offended, and is that the most cruel form of insult for these same people? Should it be a shame for someone who said something like that? We, gentlemen of the People's Parliament and the Honorable citizens of Serbia today, choose the government. It's a sublime act. If someone in this lofty act cannot maintain dignity and adhere to basic moral principles and performs as Mr Obradovic did, then such MPs really do not belong in this house, and this will certainly be given to citizens of Serbia when the time comes. I don't want a vote to be voted for injure the Rules of Procedure I pointed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18241	No, the Rules of Procedure's injuries go first. Injuries to the Rules of Procedure, slowly. I have to delete the list, who else is the breach of the Rules of Procedure to write it down? Snow White Paunovic. Are there any other injuries to the Rules of Procedure? Komlenski. Just to release the list. Okay. The word has Alexander Martinovic. Please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18242	I thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. I've got to smile, I've got to advertise Article 107's injury. I think that in the first part of "The Truck driver" Is telling his father in anger – where you were not slaughtered by Tuta Bulgarian. Freud, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, noticed something in psychiatry, a very significant phenomenon in psychology called subconscious. Bosko's changed a lot. He began to dress nicely, has a new haircut and a reminder of a nice, smooth, European politician, even to me, Canadian Prime Minister Trudo. Apparently, someone is very good at counseling him, and the gay community has seen it. He deserves all the credit. Do you know who said this? Mr. Predrag Azdejkovic in December 2016, one of the LGBT leaders in Serbia. So, all these violent attacks, all this anger eruption on members of the LGBT population, when we think about what Freud wrote, it's pretty clear to me. I hope it's clear to you, too. As for this rude and primitive remark that Mrs. Brnabić is a Croat, I will later be in the debate, if I have to go to the meat to quote a conversation between one of the then Serb leaders in Croatia, Franjo Tudjman, who said – my wife is Croat and my grandchildren are Croats, and on that list Mr. Bosko Obradovic was elected a National MP, but I will...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18243	Please be as tolerant as you listened to Boško Obradovic. You are very sensitive to the Rules of Procedure, but you are not sensitive to the hate speech we have heard from MP Bosko Obradovic. Hold on a second, you've got to hear the other side. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18244	So he should be ashamed of those words.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18245	I'll give you 10 seconds back. There will be time and all, please just patience.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18246	I thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The time, for those who earn, is long past, but Mr. Obradovic should be ashamed of the words he said at Mrs. Brnabic's expense, but I'm not angry with him, neither are you dear colleagues, it's a simple thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18247	Thanks, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18248	Please, thank you, time. Just to finish, it's very important that I say it. I've been interrupted multiple times, thrown away, I wasn't angry, but please let me finish my sentence. Don't be angry with Mr. Bosko Obradovic because it's an absolute ignorant. The first president of the Serbian Royal Academy of Sciences and Arts was elected in 1886 by Catholic Josif Pancic of Bribery, Dalmatia. It didn't bother the Serbs in the 19th century, it doesn't bother us at 21.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18249	So, we've heard two injuries to the Rules of Procedure so far. In accordance with Article 103(5), I believe that I have hurt the Rules of Procedure, and I am obliged to remove the injury done immediately and to give notice to Bosca Obradovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Komlenski Then you got the wrong call. [[Jorge Komlenski: I was looking for a replica.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure, none more. (Balsa Bozovic: Rules of Procedure. I have a very clear session, and I know why I ask if there are any more injuries to the Rules of Procedure. (Balsa Bozovic: Rules of Procedure. All right, so no more injuries to the Rules of Procedure. (Balsa Bozovic: Rules of Procedure. Please let me run the session. You know how well I hear. First, this side of the MPs came forward, and I made a list, and you heard it. Now I'm asking if anyone's given up on that list or not? Marijan Risticevic did not give up, and then I will move on to this side of the MPs. It's very funny, and it's touching, but you don't know how hard it is to run a session when someone's screaming to convince the president to change his way of running a session. That's impossible. I'm soundproof and noise-proof, and we can measure it. Marijan Risticevic and then on this side how much damage we have to the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Krasic: When will you be on this side? It's the middle, it's not the left side. Here you go. I ask MPs who will not harm the Rules of Procedure to sign off. You're making it impossible for me to work. Take a minute. Since the MPs won't let me work, then a minute's break. [[After a break.]] We can keep working. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18251	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Members 109, 110 and 111. Madam Chairman, if you had listened a little more carefully to Mr. Bosko Obradovic's speech, you could have said more measures, more warnings, which would have resulted in the taking of words. Since you have already punished Mr. Obradovic with a warning, I think he will appreciate your tolerance in the future. But, if that happens again, I ask you to give the measure of caution several times and that it results in more difficult measures as provided for in Articles 110 and 111. The 107th is a regulated dignity of the National Assembly and I must tell you my impression. In particular, Mrs Ana Brnabic has more manhood and courage than Bosko Obradovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18252	You're right, MP, and I will correct that mistake. In accordance with Article 103(5), I immediately correct the error, giving another reminder to the MP, Bosko Obradovic. The word is Snow White Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18253	Thank you, Chairman. I'm advertising Article 27. No matter what you have done on two occasions rightly and in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, however, although I am a national MP, I am primarily a Serbian citizen who is brutally offended at the start of a discussion of my colleague Bosko Obradovic. I don't feel humiliated, I don't feel offended, I don't want to be declared in any way by a respected colleague. I can understand that someone has a complex and starts their discussion with Slobodan Milosevic and his extradition to Vidovdan, via the president of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Ivica Dacic, ends with Branko Ruzic. It's a clear need to even look like a socialist, but it's just not easy. This is perhaps a place where it can be discussed, if it is considered that Ms. Ana Brnabic's distinguished mandate in her cabinet has also seen Professor Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, whose speciality is this, but the Assembly is not the place where such things are being treated. On the other hand, as a woman, as someone who comes from Peća, for the second time in the middle of this exhibition is again offended by the fact that Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija live in the country. In Serbia. Here, let me answer that. I don't know what kind of attitude my colleague Obradovic has about it, I was convinced that the patriot who advocates that Kosovo never be independent, but second time I'm surprised in two days. And when it comes to population policy, you can't read what's been done over the past year. I have it in front of me as a responsible MP. This is the report by Professor Slavica Djukic Dejanovic's cabinet and I will do this if my colleague, Boska Obradovic, needs to deal with facts, not lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18254	Thank you. Do you want to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) The word has been given by the MP Srdjan Nogo, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18255	Article 103(8) and Article 27 In accordance with Article 103 paragraph 8, it is clear when a breach of the Rules of Procedure can be pointed out. I'm correcting my colleagues, and I'm asking them not to say that they're advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because we're not advertising the injuries of the Rules of Procedure here, but we're pointing to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. Several previous speakers who appeared preferably to indicate a breach of the Rules of Procedure used that right for replication. There is a clear obligation and a clear regulation that regulates how this Rules of Procedure is handled when you use this replicating instrument. They could have reported to the replica Bosca Obradovic if they were authorized to do so and if they had the right to report for the replica, not that you, under that form, allow them to replicate. Also, you have allowed several MPs to present a number of qualifications and insults at the expense of Bosko Obradovic. Why did you not respond in this situation and protect the dignity of fellow MPs? But you're doing something else here, Mrs. Gojkovic. According to Article 27, you should take care of the order at the session, not comment and qualify our political views. Our political views are on the assessment of Serbian citizens and how Serbian citizens will evaluate them, so it will pass, but we have the right to our political stance and this right cannot be denied by anyone. You have no right to give us reminders because of the political attitudes, attitudes that don't differ at all, they were even more cultural than they were, for example. what one representative of the ruling majority, Dragan Markovic Palma, was saying. No one interrupted him, and no one warned him. You did not allow in our speech, which lasted 20 minutes, or the right to 20 minutes that the president of our parliamentary group had that he could continuously state one political position. That's what's bothering you. It bothers you to express your political views and to point out the true nature and the true essence of your authority.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18256	You want us to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18257	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Therefore, Article 106: “In the course of the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, the delay of the speakers is not allowed in any other way, as is any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. ” So there's no reason for anyone here to understand something in a way that isn't right. We have our political stance, and we are constantly threatened by the ruling majority's right to freedom of speech. We don't say a word that doesn't exist in Serbian. Nothing ugly or we thought or said about any of the future members of the government, so I ask my colleagues not to use their injuries to insult those who don't feel the same way. Never has anyone from the Court of Serbia told anyone in the National Assembly that it is not written, that it has no head, that it is a member of the sect, we have heard it all from you. The second thing, I don't see what this has to do with what a respected SNS colleague said: "to be slaughtered by Tuta Bulgarian". What are we gonna do, buddy? My wife is a Bulgarian.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18258	No one mentioned Tuta Bulgarin today.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18259	Believe me, you haven't heard. If you'll excuse me, I'll say the name, but don't pull the line. Dear counterpart Martinovic said in a joke: "Why not get slaughtered by Tuta Bulgarin". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18260	You know, MP, why most MPs acted here. You called people traitors here by name. So it has nothing to do with Tuta Bulgarin, or some kind of Serbian postcard or triviality compared to when you say that Alexander Vukic and Ivica Dacic are traitors. Don't banalize things now. (Dragan Vesovic: Who said that? ) Bosko Obradović. Don't banalize things, don't take chestnuts out of the fire, it's said what's said. It's not a political stance, it's something terrible, it's the biggest insult any man can get, let alone someone who runs the country. Don't, please, I didn't react today, but this is what I had to do. I'm sorry I didn't express my sentence explicitly immediately. According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 106: “The president of the National Assembly can interrupt the speaker. ” So the Rules of Procedure should read from one to the last word. Replica. Here you go. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18261	Thank you, Madam President. The replica is also mentioned on several occasions by the SPS President, the SPS Vice-President, and above all by one inappropriate and inappropriate speaker, both the president and the SPS Vice-President. I'm not going to say, of course, it's not the SPS's manners, we're not going to use such a dictionary because we don't want to bring the debate down to that level and that level. First, not because of a short-time speaker, but for the sake of the public, clearly and precisely, this Serbian government will have one president, or Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and that will be Ana Brnabic and has our full support. As far as the SPS is concerned, the SPS shares the value and responsibility when it comes to the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we express the readiness and determination that, together with our coalition partners, we continue to work to realise what the objectives and principles of work of the future Government of the Republic of Serbia are and we have a very good basis, and these are the historical results still current or previous Government of Serbia. You know, when someone says, "the citizens of Serbia have been humiliated," so by making such a finding, in the most harshest possible way, you humiliate the citizens of Serbia. But you can never cheat on Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens in the elections say what they think about political parties, the results and the programmes of these political parties. Serbian citizens have made it very clear what they think about the joint candidate of the ruling coalition, Aleksandr Vukic, in the presidential elections, on the results of the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the government of Serbia programme. So democracy is being held in elections, not on the street, whether someone liked it or not. This government has serious political legitimacy and will be confirmed in the voting day, but there is, we are fully convinced, a huge confidence of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18262	Thank you. The Republic is requested by MP George Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18263	Thank you, Chairman. Some answers must be given, which is that Alexander Vulin, apart from law school, has graduated from the highest security school this country has, as I call it, so-called. National Security Academy. He graduated from state school, reported his apartment neatly before he got any post. Before that time, he was always in private business, unlike a respected fellow who won last year's elections in the village of Vranici, this year in the presidential elections of seven votes, as a presidential candidate, which is much less than the number and close relatives he has there. I repeat, he has reported his assets neatly to the Anti-Corruption Agency on time, but I wonder if whoever asked this question properly reported his income from the funds he was taking from his board members in Chačka, from the funds he obtained from the Hilandar monastery and has not yet answered the question I asked the day before, and that is – is what he was reading today writing and coming up with himself or someone helping him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18264	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18265	Thank you, Chairman. I don't think you were right when you warned me because the basic thing in politics is to have freedom of speech and to say what is thought, to have a different attitude from the authorities, but you simply think it's important to choke the voice of the opposition and insist on it. First of all, of course Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia, but why can't I enter Kosovo and Metohija? Why is it that at the border you pulled someone stops me and says I'm unwanted and that I'm forbidden to enter the territory of the Republic of Kosovo? How can I, as a Serbian citizen, not move across the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Question number two, who pulled that line? The third question, being a believer of the Serbian Orthodox Church does not mean that I agree with everything the Serbian Orthodox Church does. Let's just say, I disagree with Alexander Vulin's medal. I am still a believer of the Serbian Orthodox Church, but I do not agree with the Serbian Orthodox Church's decision. As for the SPS, I did not mention at any time the president of the SPS, Ivica Dacic, but former SPS President Slobodan Milosevic, whom you gave up and who, of course, you are ashamed today of defending Kosovo and Metohija in your time, and today you are defending a gay parade. The most important thing is the following – The Dvori were in the local elections in Chačka a year ago in ten polling stations won the SNS and that is what bothers the ruling majority in Chačka and here. It is a special fear and anxiety when you know that your voters, SNS and SPS voters, disagree that Ana Brnabic is prime minister and support what I am saying because I protect traditional family and Christian values in Serbia, as they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18266	The word has a National MP, Mira Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18267	I would like to point out that we will give full support to your choice and choice of your cabinet, because there is no reason to doubt the decision made by President Vukic when he elected you. He had a chance to work with you and to assess your qualities and your abilities. What I want to remind you of is that in 2014 and 2016, the PUPS gave support to the policy set by the president, then Prime Minister Vukic, who received a verification in the elections and which she carried, among other things, in addition to these strategic goals and difficult financial consolidation. It may have been the hardest decision that we as a party had to make, but as a mature, responsible and serious... May I have your attention, please? The difficult decision we made and why, of course, all these years since 2014, when we were making that arrangement with the IMF, we were called. We're, I mean, the only party, if we can put the movie back now, follow the articles, which is called for pension cuts, although we're not the only ones dealing, we're left-handed, we're not just dealing with the social, but really we are organized and organized and we are PUPS and I'm saying this, of course, on behalf of all the millions and seven hundred thousand pensioners who are following us. I will briefly return to the exposés you had, which I very, as well as all my colleagues from the PUPS, followed. What makes me happy is the announcement of an increase in wages in the public sector, because I come from the public sector, from a very good and well-organised company, which has only been reformed. You've had the opportunity to cooperate with us and, simply, on the spot and see how many young, capable, valuable, among other things and IT engineers, who, of course, were most interesting to you, at least in this part of the work you've been doing so far. These people, indeed, are these 15,000 people who worked fairly. It is a business that has great results of business and a large part of the budget, i.e. profit is being paid into Serbia's budget, so I think it will be accepted from their side, a long-awaited increase will indeed be accepted with enthusiasm. What I have to mention, I haven't noticed, I assume it was your speech slip, you didn't mention an increase in pensions. I hope that was a failure. We recently heard from President Vukic, who said that by the end of the year there would be an increase in both salaries and pensions. We haven't talked, we haven't asked, we're not going to ask what percentage it is, of course we expect it to be maximum, as much money as possible, not endanger the system. We're glad the till is full. That means those promises will come true. I'd like to remind you of some of the things we've done in the past. In 2008, we were looking for an increase in pensions that, of course, when you are looking at the economic side, everyone is attacking us and everyone thinks it was wrong then, but we are very proud of that decision, because just the parties that were in power before that led to almost genocide of that population, the large, millions and seven hundred thousand pensioners, that is almost one Belgrade, a little less than Vojvodina. I mean, if we invest so much in the protection of the railways, you know how much power was spent to preserve Smederevo, Želizara Smederevo, then it certainly takes a lot of seriousness and a lot of responsibility to those millions and seven hundred thousand people who really have borne the greatest burden. What our President Krkobic would say is it is time to come up with this final financial result that will show that our decision to support fiscal consolidation and President Vukic was now correct. If there's still some cuts to be made somewhere else, which we would say, some small and rich cry, let it be re-allocated, but we think that the shoulders of the pensioner have carried a lot of burden so far. In 2008, in addition to that increase, we did a lot of things in Belgrade. I'd like to ask your attention, because I rarely take my word for it. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18268	Everyone listens to you, don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18269	Well, I don't think so, I can see it's a big jam. I rarely answer, so at least when I answer now, I'd like you to listen to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18270	You have all the attention, don't worry.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18271	Maybe because I'm not making a play, maybe because I'm being extremely serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18272	You're also heard by the future prime minister and she wants to pick up after you, that's what she told me, just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18273	I would like to remind you that we, in 2008 were leading a very responsible social policy in the City of Belgrade, including the introduction of 13 pensions, or so on. 13 pensions, which all pensioners received socially threatened, and unfortunately there were many. There were many, at one point, 60 and some thousands, and then we moved the line a little bit over 13, 14, and we got to 104 grand in the city. At that moment in Serbia, we had it for a year and we fought it, 490,000 pensioners had pensions of less than 15,000 dinars. So when we talk about this support we've given, I just want to say how difficult our decision really was. A million and forty thousand pensioners we managed to protect, all those who have up to 25 thousand, but the good part did bear the burden. We all know that pensions are low and we know that wages are low, and I think what our president is saying, that pensions are supposed to follow wages is exactly the real definition of that. You can't have big salaries, you can't have small pensions or vice versa. I'd like more attention, you've talked about regional development, and I think he's very important. Of course, we accept and we have given support to the strategic objectives of this government. Digitalization, technological development, it's really the future of the country. I must remind myself that in Serbia, a lot of people still sign fingerprints. We have over 400, I think 31 thousand pensioners waiting for the mailman to bring him a pension just because they're not just dressed. As far as regional development is concerned, it becomes a strategic problem of the state and will talk later about it by my colleagues, but we in southern Serbia, we have almost empty villages. We are safely open to neighbors, 631 thousand households of rural areas exist and millions and 400,000 people work in these households. That's why we need to develop villages, develop cooperatives that you've been talking about. Let's get people back, at least those who have their own estates. Serbia is ruined. You in southern Serbia have small possessions that do not cross two and a half hectares, in the middle of Serbia, in the forest about five, five and something, Vojvodina is stronger, it has 10.9. It is necessary to group these properties and thus join them. Co-operation isn't just a village, of course, but I think it's the most important thing right now, and then we're going to get into a situation where we don't have rabbles that have problems, that we don't have grain producers that have problems. So I think there's a lot of things to do. There's a lot of work to be done. We will indeed give all possible support from PUPS for everything that is done in the interest of this country. We're all here mostly, we already have big careers for us all, very successful careers, we're very responsible, we know what's possible, but we're not elves. No one's here. We can't work things out overnight, we can't bring the country in, we can't skip some of it. We just have to have some time. I hope that what's about the population that we're protecting here, and in the meantime for the last three years since 2016, everyone has defended the pensioners even though they didn't even care about them before that, so we've established ourselves. The PUPS party would never be founded if people were protected. So, I hope these three years we've done our best, that we've helped as much as we can. Of course, I'm going to do a little depression, my dad, in time, when I told him, this country was always having problems, it was always the state that would take the money, no money, etc., to raise the money, because apparently the state would take the money, said – I wanted to give my life for this country, if my money meant anything to her, let him take that money. So, of course, we all live off our salaries, but we all made a contribution. But let's try to do a little bit more work together, make less correspondence, be cooperative, and I think we'll go a lot faster forward, and really this is a train we shouldn't miss. I repeat that the PUPS parliamentary group, the nine of us, of course, will support Mrs. Brnabic's proposal for the mandate and all members of her government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18274	Thank you. The word has an Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18275	Thank you for your support and in your previous work and I hope very good cooperation and future. I just wanted, on behalf of the government, to answer one thing that was said earlier, so that it would be clear and unequivocal to everyone from now on and in the future, it was said that the government defends the "gay parade". It does not defend the Government of the Republic of Serbia "gay parade". The government of the Republic of Serbia defends and will always defend the Constitution by guaranteeing the rights of all citizens of Serbia, both the government and members of the government individually and together do not go into it or say whether they love or do not like it, or whether they like it or not. They are also there to defend the constitutional rights of all citizens. So we had one, now we have two short lessons about the Constitution of Serbia. The first lesson is that Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia and another lesson that all citizens in Serbia have equal rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18276	The word has Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18277	The President-in-Office, respected Mrs Brnabic, respected candidates and candidates for ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, co-worker and counterparts, this debate is already taking place and I have listened with attention to the exposés of the prime minister for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. I repeat what I have been saying these days on behalf of the DS Parliament Club and in general on behalf of the DS and my personal name. So, citizen Ana Brnabić will always have protection for my own and MP club DS when it comes to her personal rights, personal freedoms. I think that's more to talk about. There's been a little talk about exposé itself, about freedoms right now. I'm glad you mentioned that now. But unfortunately, we see many examples in which there was not enough clear voice, nor yours, nor the previous prime minister, nor the competent ministers, but not your voice when it was necessary to defend the freedoms of minorities in Serbia. I think it's an extremely important question, an important question not only because of individual and personal freedoms. I think it's also a development issue, because it's a prerequisite for a serious, mature dialogue in a society that can only be built in such a way. If the word mentioned rarely is precisely a question of freedom, a question of rights, both in the exposé and in this debate, then it is extremely rare to mention the word dialogue, and this willingness to dialogue is something that can build a civilized, democratic society. That's what DS always stood for. We also have proof of that. So we will also defend you from some MPs who will vote for you the next day, and who have repeatedly shown this kind of impatience towards diversity, but we will also fiercely criticise what we disagree with, especially in terms of references, policies and what you yourself have called the continuity of the future government in line with the previous government and for the past five years, because this opportunity is in some way, to draw the line and look at the results of the five-year work of the previous five governments, so four governments, plus one reconstructed, five governments. So, the fact itself, in five years, five governments are saying that we have lived a period of deep instability, because to be realistic, and the ideal cycle of democratic changes of four years does not allow enough space for capital projects and serious implementation of serious projects, because each government mandate starts with a year of modeling. It is then ideally necessary to have two years to realize a serious project and in the last year it is entered with a year of demagogy in preparation for the next elections, and there is no result. What only happens to cycles where you have five years per year of office, and you yourself know as ministers, because there have been many ministers in the previous meeting, as much system and large as possible to do in that sense. Now I'm talking about your successes and personal references, because we met you here as Minister of Local Self-Government and State Administration. And then we criticised the Bill on Local Self-Government, which brought eight billion less budgets at the local level. Cities and municipalities received eight billion dinars less, with the latest changes to the law. We know ourselves, because there are a lot of MPs and former mayors and former mayors here, among ministers there are former mayors and people with experience in local self-government, they know what kind of problems people in the local community face, and especially because that's where this real life is going on for people who need to solve their real problems. So, you didn't have enough authority and I won't say that the crucial role is that reduced transfers to local self-government are only yours as Ministers of State and local self-government, because first of all, it bears the responsibility of the Prime Minister as a man of the highest authority, and that is from tomorrow, probably, you, because most of you will vote, so this is also some kind of invitation to take more care of the future of local self-government compared to what you did as a minister yourself. That's why we can't support you and give you trust. We won't vote for you as a prime minister or for your cabinet. But we can give you our opinion and try to fix it. What's the role of local self-government? The role is to fill their budgets, because people at the bar are organised because of the need to address their needs, to improve the quality of life in their environments, to raise some money in solidarity, to manage these budgets transparently, and to ensure transparency, it is necessary to have democratic conditions in choosing the right people and people from trust in the place, and to choose the right people, enough personal freedoms, sufficient legal certainty, enough media freedoms should be given. Unfortunately, we didn't have all that in this cycle. What is also referred to your address, you have been silent, and I call you to cease your silence, and when it comes to attacking yourself, because it is not just a question of you, but of all the people in Serbia who are at risk, and we saw 15 days ago exactly the fall of security, of party security in front of the Assembly, of twenty meters from this building where we are now talking, of journalists, of photographers, of people who have expressed different opinions and saw the willingness to hear a different opinion and how it reacts. It reacted in such a way both in the presence of the police and in the presence of cameras, in the presence of the public, and we can imagine what it looks like when in the previous five years we had local elections, where, of course, the target was always DS and DS candidates, but also other citizens of Serbia who thought differently, who met with these same people, with these same jeeps, and that there were no words of protest over such a way of treating these people who were about to provide both transparency and the functioning of local self-government and their freedom at local level. We resent you for not doing your part of the job, not having enough courage, not having enough authority and inviting you to change your behavior in that sense. How does all this later reflect through life and the quality of life in Serbia? So here we see now the Fiscal Council confirms this story by its report on the state of the Kragujevac budget, above all, that the city, the local self-government, is in charge of the entire budget. So he owes the banks a year-long budget of the town of Kragujevac. I'm a professor. Pavle Petrovic announces that the bankruptcy of such a city, an important city in Serbia, is possible. The city of Nis is in a similar state. Something better, but with 50-60% of the budget plans. I'm talking about that status. Not far from Belgrade with its debt, not far from Novi Sad either. When total debt is collected, about a billion euros, which seriously endangers the financial stability of the entire Republic of Serbia with, data we have, 300 million unpaid claims from these local self-governments. That'll come on our agenda at some point. We'll talk about it again, but in order to avoid it, I think it's important to open up the debate, not by shooting at each other and trying to, by digging through our personal lives, discredit individuals who talk about certain phenomena and something that we could solve together. That is why we need dialogue and you are at this moment the most responsible for this kind of atmosphere needed in this House regarding opposition and position. How do you look at all this? Now I'm talking about numbers. We haven't talked about real life, but then we have a fire at the Vinca dump, because we haven't focused enough power on investing enough money in what's key, solving sanitary dumps at a local level to keep the population healthy, solving wastewater treatment collectors, because Novi Sad, Belgrade and Smeder's are the only cities left in the Danube that don't have wastewater treatment systems. We poison our waters, poison our food, come through the market, and these are the key challenges. The Democratic Party has proposed three years ago, since the adoption of the law on amendments to the Ministry Act, the formation of the Ministry of Ecology, we insisted on it, and you said then – no, that is a pointless proposal. Yesterday you accepted it and admitted indirectly that you made a mistake and that we as a state lost three years, and we could have been more efficient, because local self-government itself can't do it. I can go with the environment minister and I can go with the Ministry of Environmental Protection that is needed, but in synchronising with local self-governments that have to pull out their finances, they have to pull out their communal systems to do such important, key things for the health of the population in Serbia. So, clean drinking water, wastewater treatment and regional dumps. I guess we can agree on such things and we can do something in Serbia. You have commented on this economic part, since we are now talking about the continuity of the government and we are talking about a cross-section of the situation that needs to be said about macroeconomic opportunities in Serbia. I'll read some data. I know the numbers are often boring, but I think we can get some analysis out of it, and you've touched something that I'm going to mention here now and you've interpreted in your own way. So, when we compare the cost and expenditure growth based on interest payments for 2012 with the 2017 budget, I refer to the data that are only present to us, because there is no budget implementation, so we have no execution, but we are only talking about projections, because it is only possible to use it. Thus, projections are such that in 2012, the amount of interest payments was 582,495,000 euros. Is that right? A billion and 83 million for 2017. So 85.6% more interest from 2012 to 2017. Now I can expect the question, therefore, of interest is practically proportional to the 2012 public debt ratio of 15 billion and the public debt of 2017, which is 25 billion. So, the deficit for these five years is 10 billion euros in public debt and about one billion euros in less foreign reserves at the National Bank of Serbia. It's a draw along with that data that says that the amount of interest is exactly proportional to that 10 billion increase. We can do that analysis and ask if they're so-called. The effects of the "roll over" arrangement, therefore, the terms most commonly used in Serbia in the last five years... So it turns out that it was absolutely not about more favourable financing of existing liabilities, even in that comparison with the proportional amount of interest commitments and the absolute increase in public debt. To mention, in this regard, the fact that following costs and borrowings increased by 100% compared to 2012. - 2017. I see Minister Vujovic is responding. These are not large assets, but are comparable in terms of hiring new loans, so it is possible to compare in this regard. Important data show significant data to extract value added taxes in the country for 2017 and amounts to a projection of budget of 857m euros and is smaller than that of 2012 amounting to a billion and 20 euros. So over the past five years, the value added tax has been 15% lower. That's exactly what it says about the transport of goods and services and about what it's about... whether there is a bigger and better indicator for this major dramatic growth from 2012 to 2017. What is interesting, the value added tax from imports increased by 28.4% in 2017 compared to 2012, 28.4% higher imports compared to five years ago. What does that mean? That there is an increasing production of domestic production and placement of these products. What does that mean for all of us, especially you, but also for us, of course? It is that the subsidy policy, because we have seen that somewhere around 860m euros a year subsidize the economy, that we need to encourage from subsidies exactly and substitute what we are importing at this point. So DS had some suggestions, I'm glad to mention that three years ago in our program, we had the introduction of information as a mandatory programme. You were talking about one of the priorities in education. It's a good thing you accepted it. It is good that the idea of our policy, related to incentives in agriculture, subsidies in agriculture, is exploited. I will remind you that in 2012, the government to which so many attacks were carried out had 100 euros per hectare of subsidies and encouraged the production of agriculture. I think we need to think about exactly how we can substitute all this food that we import in order for our farmers to have the opportunity to be competitive on this market. I'm talking to you about this particular percentage, 28% higher imports, obviously compared to 2012. It's dramatic data, but we need to talk about it. There's still a lot of data to analyze, and so will you. I will leave part of the time for further analysis, but I think it is also important to talk about what you missed to say, and I think you now have the opportunity to say clearer messages, first of all, about foreign policy, about regional co-operation, what priorities in this regard, the Belgrade-Pristina dialogue, the way you will lead this dialogue. I think we need to hear it in the Assembly. The part that's fundamentally important to our citizens, and what we rarely hear about, remember, we used to have reports on the RTS of the consumer basket, about the drinking barometer, about life, food, people. We rarely hear, now, the data and comparison of the average consumer basket and the average salary in the Republic of Serbia. I will read to you this information and this information should be a measure of the success of this government, of your personal success, and you can achieve this success by opening a dialogue and having an open discussion on all topics. Here is the initial position that you inherited from the previous government, which is that the average consumer basket in the Republic of Serbia, in March 2017, was 69,194,00 dinars, that average monthly earnings, excluding taxes and contributions, were paid in March 2017 at 47,814,00 dinars, which means that the average net earnings in the Republic of Serbia are sufficient to cover 70% of the cost of the average basket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18278	Thank you. The word is by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18279	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's been some untruths about the SNS here, and that's why I have to react. On the day of the oath of the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, the Serbian Progressive Party had the only legal meeting, in accordance with the applicable regulations, which, without any excessive use of force, was removed only by man, I think it is called Marko Radojkovic from Zemun, whom DS 2011 allegedly hired as a teacher who insulted and provoked people who came to support the swearing of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. What Mr. Goran Ciric owes us as an answer, that is, why did the DS regime, in the summer of 2008, kill Rank Panic just because he had a different political stance from them? (Balsa Bozovic: Rules of Procedure. ) And what I am interested in, is how, Mr Goran Ciric, intends to restructure public enterprises in Serbia? That is exactly what I expect from him, because Mr. Goran Ciric, if I am not mistaken, is an adviser to the Director General of the Post Office of Serbia, with a salary of, again, 150,000 dinars. It would be good, Mr. Ciric, since you are a high-ranking official in an important public enterprise, to explain to us how you think to implement reforms, for example in "Serb Post", which is one job Serbia expects in the coming period, and you as a consultant to the Director General, I think you will play a very important role in this.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18280	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Goran Ciric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18281	We just saw what a dialogue in the Assembly doesn't look like. Without any arguments, a personal attack again, and that, for who knows which time, has been proven in this assembly. All the things we talked about, we talked about the arguments, and I liked to face thoughts about numbers and ideas, and the way we're going to get out of this topic smarter and better solutions for Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia. We also had this example in the previous debate, where the fresh files from the Ministry of Defence of Some MPs read confidential documents, which is very strange, you have the rights to do this, but once again it says, this is not the way to keep the dialogue in the Assembly, which we expect the effects, of which we expect the real laws that will improve the quality of life in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18282	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18283	I hope you noticed, Mrs. Gojkovic, that I absolutely didn't insult anyone, I didn't even raise that. I was just asking why they killed a man who had a different political attitude from them. (Balsa Bozovic: Rules of Procedure. ) And I asked Mr. Ciric, as adviser to the Director-General, you will acknowledge this is an important place in the management of every company, which are its ideas about how to restructure and reform the public sector in Serbia and public enterprises, and to help with its constructive advice to the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this business that the government expects, which you will admit, is not a bit simple. I did not read any confidential documents, I did not insult anyone on a personal basis, I just asked a question for the murder of Ranko Panic, and I asked Mr. Ciric, as adviser to the Director-General, if he would be kind enough to help us, or the new government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Mrs. Brnabic, to restructure public enterprises in Serbia, because I think he has a rich experience, both as former director-general of the Post of Serbia and as current adviser of the Director General. I think his experience is very rich, very valuable and I think his help in this direction would mean a lot to the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18284	Thank you. That's what you decided. [[Balsa Bozovic: By Business and Mr Ćirić replica.]] Okay. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18285	Members, presidents of the Assembly, 107, 108 and 109 were violated. Is it possible to punish the MPs when they talk about the exposé, when they have someone's opinion, and they get warnings, and on the other hand they're warning about the word traitor, and on the other hand, when someone says someone's a murderer you're letting them qualify the opposition, and you don't interrupt it, let alone you give a warning or warn them of such behavior. What kind of way is that now? Tell me, is this the way I need to talk to you here today? Is this the attitude towards the opposition, as it should be in this House? That someone says he's a murderer and you're watching him, and you don't say anything about it? He didn't ask the question, he claimed it. I think this is indeed a great shame, not to warn Martinovic, after such qualifications of the opposition, just because she spoke in a very correct way about the exposé and everything the prime minister said today, during today's day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18286	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. It was not about punishing your MP group, nor were you invited to speak for the entire opposition. The punishment was given to the MP, the only one, because he counted the blood cells of the prime minister, and he made it clear in his speech. That's one thing. Second, by name and last name, he said who he thought was a traitor. By name and by name, he said who. Exactly who he called from you to the killer. Who exactly did he call from you murderer? No one. You tell me, you help me. You co-workers. (Alexandra Jerkov: All of us. And all of you. Prove he said you were the killer. (Goran Ciric: Replica. Here you go. The word is made by MP Goran Ciric, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18287	Since I have received one kind request to contribute to the restructuring of public enterprises in Serbia, I will remind this Assembly and now I will say in these two minutes, how much time I have, that I have spoken several times when we talked about the Law on Public Enterprises and proposed, precisely, adoption, for starters, the law on doing business of public interest, first. Secondly, public systems should be restructured in such a way as to separate operations from infrastructure. Under infrastructure, we mean, of course, part of the railway, telecommunications infrastructure in the area of telecommunications, we mean airport, in agriculture we mean agricultural land, and operations on that infrastructure are what needs to boost the market. So, we are against it that when infrastructure is singled out, infrastructure is privatised so that it becomes the majority ownership of foreign capital. I think that majority ownership must have domestic capital up to 51%, but it is possible to work a private-public partnership in accordance with the law, and that the state, in such a way, by managing infrastructure encourages competition, encourages operations, encourages those who want to invest in air traffic, who want to invest in rail traffic, in telecommunications, and that in such a way the state and government have mechanisms to support development and through the development of public enterprises. I've talked about it many times, and it's great that I've had the opportunity to say it here and you now, because I haven't been able to speak in this section about this segment, but I can see that my colleague had a very high understanding and a very high respect for my experience and gave me that opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18288	Thank you. Anna Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18289	Thank you. With all due respect, I really have to say that I feel a little bit like this here, these are fantastic ideas, and it's great that you've taken over this idea of introducing IT as a mandatory class in school, and they're great ideas. It's all great ideas. It just needed someone to come and make them real. It seems to me that somehow I've never had a great idea, but they can't be realized. Now this government is sitting here. Somehow it realizes these ideas, and now they're just throwing themselves in, you could do this, you could do this, too, as if this was the first government of zero years, it was 2013, so now let's do it. So, the Minister of Education, with whom I have had the great pleasure of working, Mr. Sarcevic, has done in the last nine months a really remarkable effort to finish this job and to ensure that information technologies are introduced as a mandatory subject of the fifth grade school. I guess everybody knows how hard it was, but it's over because nobody's done it by now. So, it's a great idea, just needed someone to realize, here we are. As for local self-government, financial problems. I said we weren't talking about the past, we were gonna leave the past in the past, we weren't talking about how your debts were really inherited, but we know about these debts, and we knew before the fiscal council came up with that information. You can check that with the IMF. We drew attention to the serious problem of the debt of pharmacies since 2006, when, without any consultation with local self-governments, the primary health care and primary education of local self-government were transferred to local self-government without any additional funding, when it all went to hell and in the sun in 2012, when all that debt went to public debt and continued from day one to day to pile. We're going to solve it, and it's really hard. I'm not saying we've solved it, but we're on our way. As for local self-government again, we try to force local self-governments to rely more on their own incomes, and I said that when I was defending it as the new minister of the first law on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of local self-government. What about your own income? For example, we have a property tax as 100% of our own income and the introduction of order into the state, because it's real that we as a state had to wait, we waited and now we ended up, again a fantastic idea realized, legalization of illegal objects. They are finally listed in 2016. There are close to two million, two million that no one has written before. It's called introducing order to the state. The issue of agricultural land - 40% of the income from the issue of agricultural land goes to local self-government, not to mention how much it helps our farmers, to those who do business fair. It's one of the great things about fighting the gray economy. Is it possible that in 2016 for the first time all 145 local self-governments brought an annual programme for the issue of agricultural land? Only then did we get an additional 146,000 acres from the gray zone into a legal lease process. Now local self-government has begun to earn from it. The budget inflow was only increased by 16m euros in 2016. So again, just a rational idea, a great idea, just had no one to implement it before. We also introduce local self-government to order rationalization. There were local self-governments that had four and five times as many employees. They didn't even know they had more employees because first they didn't know how many employees they had, and second they didn't have any standards by which they would know what the optimal number of employees were. Now it's gone. Own revenues from jobs export investments. As far as jobs are concerned, the Labour Act is also mentioned. The labour law is required. The economy has been looking for him, and you all probably remember that for over 10 years. It was because of populistism that he should not have adopted the Law on Labour to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, President Alexander Vukic, when the same Mr Alexander Vulin was Minister of Labour and thanks to this Labour Act we today have the lowest unemployment rate in the last 20 years in Serbia. Today, in the fourth quarter of 2016, the unemployment rate in Serbia was 13%, the smallest in the last 20 years. Is it big? Great. Was it better? Well, maybe 25 years ago. In 2012, the unemployment rate was 25.9%. So, the Labour Act, which seems to me, and should be said again, courageously adopted by the Government, and then the Assembly and thank the Assembly for that, for the initiative of the Minister of Labour Mr. Vulin, led to this. And then this leads to bigger local self-government revenues. We have both export and investment. Exports reached nearly 1.5 billion euros in March 2017, which is a monthly volume larger than ever in Serbia. In the first quarter of the investment has increased by 10%, and these are things we can't slow down. It's black and white. So these are statistics that are indisputable. As for national minorities, you say -- there was not enough clarity in defending national minorities in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The amazing thing is that there is a Republic Council for National Minorities as the Supreme Co-operation Body with all national councils of national minorities. In the last three years, the Republic Council has held four sessions. Prior to that, he met once in October 2009. After 15 years, the previous government finally re-activated the National Minority Budget Fund. So everything you bring out, there's data that's done. If it was a great idea, they're finally realized and there's a lot more to be done, but I really think it's time to accept together that a lot of things have been done despite the legacy of the hard, above all the financial heritage we've had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18290	Thank you. Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18291	I thank the esteemed president. Dear Mrs. Brnabic, ladies and gentlemen, the most important thing for the SPS parliamentary club is that the exposé is a clear confirmation of determination and commitment to the policy of continuity and political stability. The Government of the Republic of Serbia programme, very clearly and precisely defined objectives in the mandate exposé, tells us very clearly that three key words will be when we talk about the work of the future government, exactly the same as when it comes to the work of the previous Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is reform, growth and development. The government's policy defined by the exposé confirms that modernization and changes are unconstitutional processes in Serbia. When we talk about the goals, it is very important and we fully agree with you, Mrs. Brnabic, it is important that we always raise the scale. It's important for the future, because we're talking about the future today. On assignments, you always set new tasks to speed up Serbia, because the results are not made by big words, but by great effort, work, effort and effort. We are fully convinced that the future government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the previous government, will remain committed to Serbia, resolving the problem, staying committed to the interests of the future, not to the interests of political parties, ratings or popularity. In the era of day-to-day political events and this is seen today, and I suppose it will also be visible in the coming months, in the era of day-to-day political events and possibly daily attempts to degrade the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to reduce the results of the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we Mrs Brnabic for you very well-meaningly, as someone who wants to share the value and responsibility in the work of this Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have a well-intentioned advice. The government shouldn't waste time on that. The government should remain committed to the work for which it has taken responsibility, because by doing so, the government is working in the best interests of Serbian citizens. We welcome the determination and determination to continue the reform processes. Serbia's reform course has no alternative, reforms to make Serbia a healthy country, primarily in economic terms. Serbia was brave and determined, I would like to remind and speak of it as an exposé candidate, bravely and resolutely in 2014, because there was then one final political consensus of all the political parties that were part of the ruling coalition, Serbia courageously and resolutely started reform processes, bravely and resolutely started and led, I would say, unpopular steps leading to macroeconomic stability and leading to development. The government of the Republic of Serbia had a long-term plan at the time, had clear and precise objectives, a concrete programme, but also concretely defined deadlines, and this gave some strength, importance and importance to reforms in Serbia. This strength and importance have also been recognized by international organisations in the right way. It was an ambitious approach, but the results that have been achieved are far above the goals that were then set. The IMF recognises this in the right way, as well as the World Bank, as well as the Fiscal Council of Serbia. The two objectives I think we have fully managed to realise and this is a reduction in public debt in the gross social product and a permanent reduction in the budget deficit. The International Monetary Fund has done something else, correct me if I'm wrong, Mr. Vujovic, you don't have the opportunity to speak, but you can confirm, the IMF has done something that is otherwise not a practice, that during the period of the programme, that consent to an increase in income. So very often, we were respected by the Socialists as being able as socialists to vote to cut wages and pensions, as we allegedly kidnapped someone, we as the Socialists of the ruling coalition, wages and pensions, and this is a simplified view of what was actually the goal that we wanted to achieve. You know, we're socialists, but we can't be the socialists of utopians, and in 2014, there were two different directions for us. One time it was in the right sense to say a list of good wishes that would certainly maintain social peace, but in the long term, in our assessment, in 2016 or 2017, there would be financial collapse and financial collapse. The second route is something that was necessary, something that is inevitable, which is the continuation of reform processes, reforms to have positive shifts. Of course, as a responsible party, a party that primarily has responsibility to citizens, we had one responsible and serious approach and at that time chose the only possible answer to the current problems of citizens. Then, and today, there is one simplified way of looking at all of this. So it's simplistic to say – you've taken something from someone. No, we were then talking about measures, which are for the rescue of the Serbian economy, measures concerning Serbia's future and measures concerning the future of every Serbian citizen. So, a healthy system that won't be based on politics. Reforms, according to which Serbia is today recognizable, respected and respected in the world and that is something that today opens doors to Serbia and around the world, a healthy system based on life, a healthy system based on economy, and I repeat, not on politics. Today we have positive results. Today, when we have positive results, it is said that you are too little for pensioners. Well, yeah, but you know, it's obvious that there are positive effects. There are positive results, there's been an increase in wages and pensions, and we have a plus increase in the budget. It would be irresponsible and unserious to take more from the republican budget, to have bigger increases to maintain social peace, and to have a minus in the state register. That would be irresponsible and unserious. So in one rational way, we have what we have managed to earn and to achieve exactly thanks to the reform processes. So we have an increase based on sound foundations. All this led to a 3% GDP increase, a reduction in the budget deficit this year, a project budget deficit of 1.7%. All of this led to Serbia today on the world's "duing business" list in 47th place, and two years ago it was in plus 44th place. All of this led to Serbia today being among the top ten countries in the performance of reforms implemented in the area of economy and finance. Economic and political stability, in addition to what the prime minister said, incentives offered by the government of the Republic of Serbia, incentives offered by Serbia to potential investors, reduction of bureaucracy, faster licensing, all of which today makes Serbia an attractive investment destination. One of the most attractive countries to invest in this part of Europe and we as the National Assembly have made a serious contribution that Serbia today has a good, positive business environment through the adoption of system laws. Because reforms have just begun in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by adopting the Labour Act, Law on Law on Law of Law, Law on Construction, the Law on Inspection, the Law on Administrative Procedure and many others, but the positive results will only be visible in the period ahead. We just heard some data. Let us share some of the information that we have, which contributes to the positive results achieved by the previous government and I repeat, is a very good foundation and foundation for the work of the future government. Mr. Vujović and Mr. Vulin, correct me if I'm wrong. There was little time to talk about unemployment. Unemployment seems to me Mr. Vulin, according to some data we have in 2012 was 25.9%, 2016 15.3%, and today 2017 13%. A serious result no matter what they say about it. As for GDP, by six billion more than in 2009, and next year by another billion. This was about some ten billion-dollar borrowing, which is absolutely pointless. On the contrary, Serbia has increased its credit rating while countries in the region have reduced credit ratings. As for the minimum labour price, Mr. Vulin, correct me if I'm wrong, the working hour has been increased from 121 to 130 dinars, with full union consent, which we fully support. Salaries in the public sector and pensions, as well as the minimum earnings received by 350,000 people in Serbia, 30,000 in the public sector, will also increase their profits after that will be 9-10% higher. Economic growth, I already said, over 3% by the end of the year. Public debt now is 67.1% and 20% in the region. There were few words about investments, in 2016, foreign direct investments amounted to 1.92 billion euros, in the first quarter of this year about 370m euros and these are data from the Chamber of Commerce, and in the first four months of this year, the surplus in the budget is 10.7 billion dinars. It's the Ministry of Finance's report. So we are fully convinced that good years and positive results are ahead of Serbia, but what is important, we need to complete the reform processes. We need to maintain fiscal discipline, we need to continue our determined fight against the gray economy. When we talk about public enterprises, we fully agree, public business reform must continue. Public enterprises must be both rational and more efficient, but, of course, make more money. We support the concept, we have said this several times so far in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we fully support the concept, we know how difficult and painful it will be, but we support the concept of public reform and strengthening the private sector. We believe that the private sector is the future, that the private sector must and should be a pillar and bearer of the Serbian economy. The private sector has everything on its shoulders. The private sector is of the utmost importance and importance on the one hand for the country, and on the other hand for the economy. For business because it opens up new jobs, and for the state because the state is now living off taxes, taxes it collects from company profits. That is why I fully support this concept and we support all the measures leading to the strengthening of the private sector, because we believe that this is Serbia's future. As far as saving is concerned, saving is very important in times of crisis. We need to act rationally, behave domestically, we fully support it, but we always need to find a way that Serbia can, must and should develop. For us, Mrs Brnabic, the key one sentence you said during today, which is - greater separation and investment in the area of infrastructure. So investment in infrastructure, we believe, is not a cost. It's an investment in the future. No economics without infrastructure development. That's what we learned younger than our friend Mrkonjic, and that's really what it is. There is no economic without infrastructure development, and through the implementation of infrastructure projects, we are fully convinced, with success we continue to solve one of the key problems today in Serbia, which is the issue of unemployment. We are fully convinced that there is a government before us that will ensure progress, prosperity and stability. That is why both the exposé and this composition of the government and the future prime minister have our support. We believe that we will choose a government that will successfully continue to implement internal reforms, both economically and politically. We believe that we are choosing a government that will successfully continue the path of European integration. We are establishing a new ministry for European integration, better coordination, structure, organisation and pointless stories to talk about new employment. There's no new employment here. It is also pointless to talk about how Serbia does not achieve results on the path of European integration. Well, those results are visible and recognizable. And if they weren't recognizable, they wouldn't be properly evaluated, new chapters wouldn't be opened. We are convinced that we are choosing a government that will allow for strengthening Serbia's international reputation and image, although it has never been stronger. He is important because of the support of the international community. When we talk about regional policy, we believe that this government will have continuity over the previous government when it comes to regional policy, which is that Serbia remains and remains what it is today -- a symbol of new values in the region, a hub of regional co-operation with clear goals, which is peace, stability, good neighbourly relations, prosperity. If there are open issues, Serbia always hands out. If there are open issues, these open issues are resolved through a dialogue. The dialogue has no alternative, no unilateral moves and unilateral acts. We are fully convinced that we are choosing a government that will lead one determined, rational first and wise policy when it comes to defending national and state interests in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, a government that will allow decent lives for those living in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, and consider Serbia their country, a government that will remain committed and defined dialogue with Pristina, because dialogue is the only way to reach compromise and fair solutions that are acceptable to both sides. I repeat, dialogue has no alternative. With a statusual approach, Serbia will not recognise Kosovo and Metohija's independence, it's quite clear and quite precisely spoken several times, it's a clear policy and attitude of the government of the Republic of Serbia, but for regional stability, for better Serbian-Albanian relations, we go to dialogue to find a compromise and just solution that will be acceptable for both sides. Serbia shows its commitment to implement and implement everything agreed during the Brussels dialogue, but we expect it on the other hand. So there are no double arches, and first of all, I think of the Serb Community. So clearly, one of Serbia's key foreign policy goals is full membership of Serbia in the EU, but Serbia continues to strengthen traditional friendly relations with both the Russian Federation and the US and China and with many other countries of the world. Serbia is free, democratic and independent. Serbia is leading an independent foreign policy, in the best interests of its citizens. Serbia has proved to be a reliable, credible, reliable and predictable partner. Serbia wants co-operation with NATO on what are common goals, which is to preserve regional stability and peace, but there is no aspirations to become a NATO member. On the other hand, Serbia wants to co-operate with the ODKB, but Serbia also wants to have its own army and retain military neutrality policy, of course. At the very end, and with this I want to conclude, one very important issue for us, a topic initiated by the president of Serbia, the newly elected president of Serbia, a very important and important topic, a topic concerning Serbia's future, which is constitutional change. We certainly feel that we should talk openly about this, that we need to achieve what is common consensus. We express our readiness for dialogue on this subject, because, I repeat, this is a topic regarding the future. So, it spreads consensus, but, of course, it does not go beyond the interest and will of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18292	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18293	Thank you. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, Serbian citizens live very badly. The private sector, which is not linked to political parties' tops, is very difficult to operate, has a huge tax burden, bureaucratic burden. I hope the prime minister of this is aware, because listening to the exposé doesn't seem to understand it. Citizens really, really, really hard to live on. There are a lot of good places in the exposé that concern promises and things that should be done. But we've been listening to it for years. I'm not just talking about the last five years, how much this ruling structure is in power, but I'm talking about the time before that. Nice promises that repeat themselves like that and never come true. For example, one of them is the law on the origin of the property, which everyone was talking about, and so far has not been brought in. Here, I also found a sentence about this law and in this exposé. So, some of the things we can certainly agree on that the mandater read concerns the modernisation of the public administration, which is definitely something we need. For five years, the ruling majority is in power and none of this has actually been achieved, or very little. We agree, of course, that stamps, counters, papers need to go into history, that there's no reason to exist. It's one big burden for all entrepreneurs, for the entire economy. Also, we agree that public data availability is also needed. The first should show understanding of it and publish all the contracts it signs, and then all the ministries in the government do the same thing. Full transparency, I hope that's what the prime minister meant. Publishing everything the government does, every dinar that's been spent. That's exactly what the Movement "Enough Was" stands for. I hope this goes that way. Then she mentioned updating the voter list, which is an extremely important thing and I hope she can answer us at least indicatively in what time period that will happen. Then, we are pleased to hear that the government will do something about selling land to foreigners. We've been talking about this for three years. We'll see what kind of proposal this will come up with, but that the government's dealing with this issue in the first place is significant. We have been talking for three years about this, this very bad part of the Accession and Association Agreement, which was signed in 2008, which did not take care of this issue. Serbian citizens are poor, our farmers are poor, they have no money to buy the country and it takes a transitional period to protect them. It's a very, very important thing for domestic farmers. Domestic agricultural production should be based on domestic entrepreneurs in the area of agriculture. So, family, individual agricultural holdings. That's why cooperatives are needed because in themselves these households can't survive, so we welcome that part of the exposé where cooperatives are mentioned. We've also been talking about it for three years. Then, the mention of social cards, beyond what is needed in Serbia and we are unclear as to why so much time has passed without making any more significant shifts. Well, to mention the Law of Origin of Assets, which everyone mentions, but never comes to the agenda. Then we agree that focus should be on entrepreneurship, not in the state. However, we do not see a measure that speaks about it, or that changes will occur. We're talking about the need to reduce the tax burden. So these are all some things that are hard to agree on. However, they remain in the realm of some fine desires without concrete steps, so we will monitor whether the government will really work in this direction. We are naturally skeptical, but we allow the possibility that things will go that way. A quick and effective criminal procedure is mentioned, which is also necessary. On the other hand, however, the fact is that Serbia has conducted a robbery privatisation, that the country has been robbed, that no one has turned out to be guilty, so some of these effective procedures have been released both Karic and Dinkic, and everyone else, so that the part is somehow missing. What's gonna happen to that? Dispute privatisations have gone missing. There's no conversation about it at all. It is interesting that the prime minister proposed to the government of a minister who participated in the privatisation of "Minela" which, like many companies that failed in the robbery privatisation, is burdened with huge bank debts, everyone in Minel knows this very well. The money was somehow drawn from the company and the companies were put into bankruptcy and not to ruin the company's bankruptcy manager. It's ruined by the owner who pulls out the capital, leaves the money for the company in charge and lets it go bankrupt, and then there the workers can't collect their claims, so this choice is really interesting. Then when the exposé, or exposure, went into the area of speech about what the government has been doing so far, now there are huge differences in the assessment of what has been achieved so far. I note, the ruling majority has been in power for five years. This is the fourth government. To accuse those before of problems not how it lost meaning after that year. At some point, you need to take responsibility. So, to say that the state's bankruptcy was prevented today after five years, to remind you of the public debt in 2013, i.e. in 2012, when the ruling majority took over, was about 15.5 billion euros. It's over 24 billion today. You were talking about the interest the state pays and, of course, that's a big problem. But to remind you of interest in 2013 was 89 billion dinars, and today we're talking, and you mentioned 128, interest is a little bit higher, but let me say that's part of the debt. So, as this country was saved from bankruptcy in 2012 when public debt was where and where smaller and when interest expenditures were where and where less, and today we are in a great situation where debt is much bigger and interest much bigger. Of course, there was a change in the world market in the meantime, and interest rates fell. It's not something this government did, it's a positive movement that the government was supposed to use to reform the economy. She didn't happen. You also mentioned in the exposé that it was left to address the 153 companies with 52,000 employees. There were over 600 of them there somewhere in 2013, I then proposed as a minister of the economy ID cards, the introduction of order, the list of assets, the list of commitments, the making of financial plans, the analysis of the market. None of that was accepted, and then what happened? Well, the difference between those 600 and 10, 15 enterprises or 153, where are they? Mostly the vast majority went bankrupt. Nothing's been done. And it's what employees in these companies know, and neither are their associated internships, nor have they been paid back, that I'm not talking about the ones previously released in the same way as to shut down, nothing on that plan has been done. I understand that from the point of view of international financial institutions, when these companies close down, it's a positive old one. On our part, however, is the question – and why did we not do anything, so that at least we could try to impose order? To determine what happened to them. How did they lose the market? How did they get into this situation? The way they're poored? Practically, they were simply released down the water. People know this very well. Then, it's very important, in fact, and it's a reduction in public debt and it's said in the exposé itself that it's a big problem in Serbia and you say that because of the high borrowing costs only in 2016, you say in the past, but it's not in the past like I said big borrowings came after 2012. The state paid tax bonds of 128 billion dinars, interest payments. That's over a billion euros, or 3.1% of our GDP. You're saying to better understand what amount of money we're talking about, you're stressing that this amount can finance construction of 150 km a year. That's right, of course. But on the other hand, we still have 84 billion dinar subsidies in our budgets, we have activated company guarantees, various companies for which the state has provided guarantees, for 2017, the estimated cost of both the principal and interest rates of 40 billion dinars. Then, on the fines and the penalty of 11 billion dinars. So here we are again to a billion euros. In the Development Fund, two billion euros for which bills have never been deposited. These are some things concerning state reform, i.e. the introduction of order. There's nothing practical about it. This is what our companies pay for. When we talk about foreign investors' subsidies, you have a domestic water heater manufacturer who employs people, pays taxes, and that tax gives subsidies to a foreign water heater manufacturer. It's prepetum mobile, economic policy. We're destroying our homework to help with the site. We're not making any better. Then he's talking about reducing the deficit. It's very important to say that the deficit has been reduced. So pensions were taken, against the constitution, 20 billion dinars, salaries reduced by 22 billion, all taxes and excise taxes increased. An electricity excise of 15%, of 15 billion dinars, was introduced in 2017. Then, from public enterprises, profits of 17 billion were taken. To remind citizens of VAT rates increased from 8% to 10%, before that from 18% to 20%. The tax on property, all possible taxes have been increased. In total, it's about 80 billion dinars. When you add all of that up, you get 150 billion dinars and that's basically a reduction in deficits. What did the state do? Where it's order to cut costs because it's easy to take out of citizens' pockets and businesses, raise all taxes, cut salaries, cut pensions, anyone can do that. It's responsibility to introduce order in the state. It just didn't happen. Then, talk about how the government has some contribution to software development, I think it's completely unfounded. In fact, if you look at the development of IT industry, it really has growth in Serbia, the bottom line is that the state has not interfered and, in spite of its burden on bureaucracy, large tax burdens, because their state has not broken down and because their markets abroad, without corruption, were able to develop without party participation. So it's not the government's merit, and it's similar to sports. The credit for the medals belongs to athletes not to the government. You also said that we should be a society where knowledge is valued. Of course, we agree with that and that knowledge is the greatest value. But now we're getting into a little bit of a problem, if that's true, knowledge, experience, people's greatest value, how you got to this kind of government, or what it is that qualified the people you proposed for the government to be ministers. For example, what are the qualifications of Alexander Vulin to be minister of defense, from his biography that was published? Or Zoran Djordjevic to be for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, what are these experiences? They may have someone else, I really don't know, but in these areas, you should explain it. Or, say, what does Minister Antic have to do with energy? Or Minister Mihajlovic with traffic? Or Minister Stefanovic with police and internal affairs? What do you mean? Or Minister Ruzic with the state administration? Or is the minister without portfolio Krkobbic with regional development and public enterprises, except that he hired his own in the Post Office? Or, say, Nenad Popovic with innovations? Now that we get the biographies you gave us, we start reading, through these biographies there are very interesting details, where, practically, it starts with Minister Ivica Dacic, who except for having an average score of 10, which is for every praise, of course, neither speaks foreign languages nor can he deal with this job he's set up for. Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, the question for the mandate is – did you read his doctorate "The New Role of Strategic Management in Local Self-Government Management"? I read it. Do you know what it says and what the academic community is saying about him? Okay, for Mr. Rasim Ljajic, we know why he's in the government. Then, Zorana Mihajlovic. Nothing in her biography has anything to do with traffic. Or, say, Branislav Nedimovic. The biography says he graduated from Law School and nothing on agriculture, forestry and water industry, except for being the mayor of Sremska Mitrovica. I'm not saying, maybe there are some things missing in the biography, but they just don't. You yourself said in the exposé that you were showing respect for the MPs. If you're showing respect, then we need to deliver full biographies, so we know who we're voting for. We have a new Minister Goran Trivan. The question for you is – was he really arrested in 2001 and released for obsolescence? So now we're getting another minister who's been arrested. Then Aleksandar Antić, in his biography, except for party service in various municipalities, etc., has nothing on energy. Then, Nela Kuburovic, when you look at a very good student, however, the experience needed to be a minister of justice is enormous, you have to know the system well to reform it. When you read that long biography, which says that she was in two months of practice at Raiffeisen Bank, that she was an intern at the First Municipal Court, that she later worked in the litigation department as an assistant judge for a short time, and then at the Department of Justice. Where does the experience of reform come from? Or, say, Branko Ruzic, what does it have to do with the government? What's the experience besides party? Unless you left something out in your biography. Here, for example, from Alexander Vulin's biography, he said – he was assistant director of marketing at the Super Press company from 2000 to 2002. After that, from 2003 to 2007, he was the director of marketing at the company "Color Press", deputy director general "Color Media International" from 2007 to 2012. He was the editor-in-chief of the weekly "The Seal" and columnist in several daily and weekly papers. What does this have to do with the Department of Defense? Then, Jadranka Joksimovic, minister of European integration, says -- careers began as an informer at the Faculty of Political Sciences. The demonstration is an unpaid function, helps the professor, and afterwards to the SRS, etc. We also have Vladan Vukosavljevic, a candidate for the Minister of Culture and Information. He is said to have worked for three years at the external commercial company Universal since the end of the study, from 1993 to 2000 he owns the company for the provision of legal services and consulting, and from 2001 to 2013 he owns the public relations company "Logos Public Relations". This is perfectly fine, but what does this have to do with culture? Then, we have Milan Krkobic, for him everyone already knows, and Nenad Popovic. So the big difference between what you said here is that there are priorities and the value of knowledge and the value of the work experience and the biography that you've offered us. I have a question for you. Have you chosen a single minister? I want you to explain to me, too, that the prime minister explains to me – how is it possible that the president of the state says that you will be in charge of only economic matters, and that specific digitisation, and that political matters will be dealt with by Vice President Dacic? Article 125. The constitution says: "The Prime Minister leads and directs the government's work, takes care of the equal political functioning of the government, synchronises the government's work and represents the government." Where is the second Prime Minister Ivica Dacic and where is the story of the political and economic prime minister? So this issue is an extremely important issue, as well as a constitutional order in the Republic of Serbia. To repeat in the end, citizens are very hard to live on, the economy is very bad at business, the main problem is that there has been no secession, Serbia's main problem is a more partial, party employment that is bigger than ever, which has eaten all the spheres of society, and that is exactly what should be reformed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18294	First the replica Nedjo Jovanovic, then I give you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18295	I thank you, President. In order for someone to assess and value the work of anyone else, they need to have some authority and credibility. The gentleman who now allegedly valued the minister's work has neither. If something can be raised, something that certainly no one else would accept as a divination can be raised, it is that, as the bankruptcy manager of one creditor in that status, he was also a consultant to the bank who trusted that creditor. If that's a reference, then I don't have any other comment, nor do I think any of you can have any other comment. Ivica Dacic and all ministers together with Ivica Dacic have results behind them. What kind of results are there for someone who appreciates their work on being tried by someone else, I won't. As a man who, in his profession, also engaged in bankruptcy, I also know how well individual bankruptcy managers behave in bankruptcy cases. Finally, what could be attributed to my President, the SPS, as a possible mistake, so it is a mistake, is a mistake that he suggested that in the government's composition when he was Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to be the person who is today assessing the minister's work in an absolutely inappropriate manner. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18296	The word has an Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18297	Thank you. I just want to say it's better if we talk about the results of this government. You can tell about people this or that, that's your personal opinion, these people have results and this team has results that no team has ever had before. So I can think about these experts and experts who were previously in governments about their expertise, and I certainly don't think that you should ever put me as an unbiased figure as an expert or expert in the government because I think it's only important that you get up every morning and work for your country from morning till tomorrow, and that's what this team does. So don't read their biographies, but look what they've done for the last two or three years, and today we've been talking about these results all day. So we're talking about real results, and they're definitely talking about the whole team here a lot more. Speaking of which, you're telling me that experts who were previously in governments, we're talking about experts who in 2009 led to a real GDP growth of -3.1% or 2010 of 0.6%, in 1.4%, in 2012 -1%. We're talking about these experts, compared to these people here who stood up and worked from morning till tomorrow, which must be true, and achieved results. I remember in 2009, when the then Serbian government, also full of experts, established the National Competitiveness Council, with only one goal, to improve Serbia's position on the World Bank's "During Business List". Pompezically, four working groups, the Deputy Prime Minister was then president of the National Competitiveness Council. The National Competitiveness Council had its own website. All ministers were at the National Competitiveness Council. It was meetings and announcements. And, year after year, we kept falling. This government, the previous government had neither the National Competitiveness Council nor pompous announcements, had a joint working group led by Deputy Prime Minister Mihajlovic's Deputy Prime Minister, and in two years we moved 44 places. There, it seems to me that it may be saying enough, since the "Ding Business List" of the World Bank is really comprehensively looking at the conditions of business in Serbia and I think it might be saying enough about whether, if we want to talk about workers, they are against experts in the government. What did the state do? Yes, the citizens have made a lot of sacrifices. What did the state do? Well, she's rationalized. We have 39,000 less in the state administration, compared to December 2013. We have about 80,000 less if we include public enterprises. The total budget savings since December 2013 are around 180m euros. It's been rationalized, and now we're going into reorganization. It introduces order by charging what is hers to fill the budget and help the citizens further. I was saying something about everyone having fantastic CVs before, they were all experts in the government, but that's why we had to wait until 2015. In 2015, if citizens knew, for the first time in Serbia, it was started with the payment of port fees. Imagine, by 2015 no one in Serbia charged port fees. Why? Because there was no need, because it wasn't legitimate revenue for the budget, because someone was putting it in someone's pocket so they wouldn't charge port fees. Not to get into it, but is it realistic that we had experts in the government, all super CVs, and then no one remembered to charge port fees. In 2015, revenue from the budget's port fees was 88 million dinars. It's not much, but it means, in 2016, 170 million dinars. Now we have introduced a system, we charge, we have more money for social protection, for mothers, for kindergartens, for roads, etc. Legalization of illegal objects, we had to wait for 2015-2016 to write illegal objects. Was it such a fantastic, expert idea to put order in the country to list illegal objects? There weren't many, close to two million. That's how much the abandoned state was. The issue of agricultural land, I already said, is over 146,000 ha in the gray zone. We are in 2016 from the lease of agricultural land, the budget is increased by 16m euros compared to 2014. That's already significant, I think. What else did the state do? In 2015, it adopted the Inspective Control Act. Did the citizens of Serbia, and I talked about it many times when we talked about the fight against the gray economy, believe that no government by 2015 remembered that inspections should also be responsible for unregistered economic operators? Is that real? That you have a hair salon that's registered and next to it you have a hair salon that's unregistered, and then the one that's registered, there goes the inspection, and he's trying to find out what's wrong, come out, look, get into the hair salon, he says -- but people, we're not even registered, he says -- oh, excuse me, by law we're not in charge of you, just you keep working and it's okay. By 2015, the state has stimulated the economy to go to the gray zone. Repayment guarantee. We've set aside a budget to pay off the guarantees. If he's an economic expert or a bankruptcy manager, he probably needs to know that if he came to the checkout, the guarantees we gave, which were withdrawn because they weren't well negotiated, that it was negotiated five years ago, because it's so much of a grace period. Isn't it? Five years of grace period, so five years ago it was charged. It's here to collect now. The proof that the government is fighting for every company is, I think, the best Ironstone Smederevo, and I'm not going to say another word here. After all, and that e-Government, yes, and that's where we bring order to the state administration. You see, after more than seven years, we finished the list, the transfer of parent books into electronic form. We're talking about a single polling list. What, could no one complete the transfer of parent books into electronic form and then just that database to connect to the unique electoral list and update it automatically? Was that an expert idea? No, that was common sense. This government has finally set out to bring order to the state and common sense into the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18298	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18299	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament The one who's making noise has to be in a hurry for a gig. [[Saša Radulovic: Ah, replica?]] I suggest you take away his pin, he can be dangerous to himself and others. Namely, this economic gromada, and it is as economical as my fellow farmer – a farmer, only in an attempt, was mostly talking about partocratism here. The only game he has, and he doesn't have a registered party, the only game he has is a card game. I hope she's not in a hurry. Now I'm going to talk a little bit about that giant, who sent his MPs here to spit and curse me and everything for 800,000 dinars from calling that party of his, and he's against partocracies. Well, they say so -- he writes, my and Cvian's parliamentary group will certainly be part of the future ruling coalition, as the IMF and the Americans set Vukic a condition for the promised $500m budget support. He was forced to accept it, just as he had to accept my appointment in August last year, therefore, at will. I should take over the reunited Ministry of Economy and Finance, and my best associate, A.S., as governor of the NBS, after Jorgenka Tabakovic, was appointed ambassador after the election. I don't call this partocrat. I call this the best man. Let's move on. The one that apparently went to a gig or a card game, an economic gromada, an advisor in... The embassy, writes an act appointing his firm to be engaged in bookkeeping at the First Serbian Sugar Factory "Dimitry Tucovic". Apparently, he's been getting a good look at it, but what's got eyes on him is student square number 15/4. There's SPS headquarters. That firm never existed. This is from 2009. She couldn't have a PIB. Now, that's how they ruled, that's how it was partocrats, that's how they destroyed everything in order, under a password -- transfer to their company, transfer to their wife, transfer to the godfather. Here we listened to another thunder of Orthodox nature, which highlighted several of its remarks. And I had an attitude about a gay parade and I didn't change it. I'm against a gay parade. I'm also against gay propaganda. I'm against hetero propaganda if it's public, but I'm not gonna have a party and a career on that parade. I'm going to make an antipropaganda, and then I'm going to make the first church, Orthodox, family association that I'm going to declare after the party, and I'm going to swear on the Three Hand that I'm not going to make a party through that idea. Usually as a believer, as he is, I go to church to leave something behind, and he goes to church to take something to build a family association, and then, behold, he manages to trick the priests. If it wasn't for Scott, I believe that neither the church nor his faith would have helped him. Of course, I'll vote for Prime Minister and Government. I've already voted for Anna Brnabic to be Minister. If I voted to be a member of the government, then how can I not vote to chair that government? It's kind of hypocritical. This isn't about a gay parade, it's about the government, and for that reason, I'm going to vote. Let me tell you right now, it's not the first time I've voted for a gay prime minister. That's what I did in 2003, in a character sense, when I voted for my fellow farmer to be prime minister. Here we passed Karadjordje, the man who launched the creation of a new modern Serbian state. I want to thank all the villagers, all the workers, the citizens, especially from the inside, especially my villagers, who went through the mud through the cabin to the polls, knowing that they were actually saving the country from bigger troubles. I am grateful to them for being governmental, for understanding the need for a strong man to come to the head of the state. It also created an opportunity for us to have the government's choice again, and I am grateful to these young people, and we have to take care of them, because agricultural policy is no longer just a matter of agriculture, but a matter of demographics, a matter of security, security. I want to bring agriculture, energy and processing industry as close as possible to the place of production, as close as possible to the village, whether through the manufacturing and processing cooperatives, whether through the freezers, whether through the droughts, whether by building processing facilities. Most of these little people need to be kept where they live now, because they're governmental, and they've shown it countless times. Dostoevsky said – it is not enough to have the poor, it is necessary to make the poor. It was precisely the password and leadership of the party of former regimes, the yellow machinery, the freebarogue movement, the thief and some bankruptcy manager. Atlagic's theory is that man has become a bankruptcy manager. Looking at one, I've concluded that that's how he became an inhuman. The yellow machine, the freelender movement and the thief stole and fired hundreds of thousands of people by destroying their dignity, which were poor, fired, underpaid, without any dignity, trampled on so fired workers' suburbs in industrial cities. At that time, 50 billion of their money was made. Everything that was ours, together, everything has become theirs. It is estimated by the international organisations of 50 billion of our money on the Virgin Islands, the Seattle Islands and some other white world islands. Today when my fellow farmer is talking about money laundering, about the rule of law, let's see how it was in 24 years, he hasn't served military yet, and he hasn't been to college, so high school isn't a college... At that time, the army was serving at the age of 19, and he said that at the age of 24, he had not yet served the army, leading us to believe that he was probably not telling the truth. Namely, this fellow farmer who talks about money laundering was founded by a company, a solution, etc., 24.11.2008, "Vinemont ventures tortola rotaun" Virgin Islands, British, home number, etc. That's the one who advocates the rule of law, and you, Madam Minister, your first task, when you are once again a minister of justice, is to make sure that what his colleagues from the party testify is true that in his youth he threw the man off the train just because he spoke English. So, this individual needs to be properly checked, and possibly, if true, what Mr. Martinovic said and seized the weapon. They're criticizing us today that we haven't solved all the problems... (Zoran Krasic: He is not in prison. All right, Mr. Krassic, a little quieter. You can't distract me that easily. ... That we haven't solved all the problems quickly and simply that they left behind, and there's no problem in this country that they haven't made. It's not easy to get out of a difficult situation. It's hard to get out of a difficult situation. The country is a complex, serious and long-made product. It'll take a long time to repair the damage. They're talking about Herzegovsky today, the rule of law. Such political pressures make them aware that there is no rule of law with such strong and strong political pressure on the prosecution and on the judiciary. They're talking about freedom. Freedom of speech is the first democratic right, and I have been sued by Mr. Rasulovic, his wife, the dog is not for words spoken in the National Assembly, and with the complaint they have submitted, believe it or not, a stenogram. Today, they cry out for freedom without fear, and justify beating Milanovic in front of RTS in due time. As for the defence, I am obliged to say that the defence minister is qualified for this job and the legal profession, and later on for safety, for work, but to preserve peace we need to know that not everyone outside is so fond of us that there are those who want to share the people of the former Yugoslavia with each other. In order to preserve peace, we must have a technique and a ready army that can preserve that peace in a technical way, because without a strong army, if we are not ready for God's conflict, in such situations we will find it difficult to preserve peace. We don't need to crash into conflicts, 'cause the guy who crashes into conflicts usually loses them. We should look a little bit at Napoleon, who said – we should know when to draw the lion's skin, and when to fox. We've fought a lot for others, it's time to live for ourselves, but we must be prepared for any kind of resistance in the defense conflict, because we must protect our country and our country with our own army, and whoever doesn't have their own army will feed others. As far as foreign policy is concerned, we must respect ourselves. We should have friends and partners, but we can have friends and partners with both Russia and China, and with the United States and with the EU, we can be partners but not vasals and subjects. Our national interest, if another appreciates what our national interest is, is not our national interest. You're the government of continuity. You continue the work of the government that made the surplus, you continue the work of the government, because the government that was almost double-digit inflation, reduced to negligible, the rate growth is negligible, the export coverage is almost even, it jumped to nearly 80%. In this regard, let me say that the coverage of imports by export to Russia is the smallest. Russia is far away, not all goods can be competitive there, regardless of the low customs rates. We must use our way into the EU to strengthen our economy, in order for others to invest in it. This government has made a surplus, this government has made a country that can live on its incomes, which is more harvested than it spends. We have to tie ourselves to production, to export. Small countries like this can only survive if they have enough investors to bring in a part of the market, where we can export money, service our obligations and debts, and provide the best possible existence to our population. I believe that before the government there is a hard work, that you will not rely on happiness and horseshoes, you will turn your sleeves, that you will not twist people's hands, I believe that you are dedicated, that you will be worthy, many of you have shown it in the last term. And finally, to say, those who advocate big Serbia, we must fight for a better future, we must be economically strong. In order to recover KIM one day, first, we must have a strong economy. The strong economy must create a strong political position for our country, a strong army, which requires Serbia to be great. We'll get better when we're better. Serbia will be big when it becomes big on the inside. We have to fight for a better future. There's no such thing as a gift for the future. And finally, to those who think that discipline will yield to this government, I advise, Thomas Man has said - about the country all, to the government as much as it deserves. I translate that, you have my vote, while for Serbia you give everything, so my vote for Serbia is everything, and for the government as much as it deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18300	Thank you. (Dragan Vesovic: Rules of Procedure. ) The word has been made by MP Dragan Vesovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18301	Thank you, Chairman. I think he's a broken member of 106. Rules of Procedure, where he says the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. No matter how interesting it is for me to listen to an esteemed colleague, he spoke first word about the government and the exposé in about 13 minutes and 15 seconds. Until then, we've heard about getting rid of the train and the vineyards and all kinds of islands and weapons, and everything, and the church, and the parades, so I think it really took a little warning from a colleague. No matter how many things I'm interested in beautiful words like this, and who intrigued me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18302	He only compared the former government to the prime minister and her government. There was no reason for me to interrupt him. I understood his speech. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18303	I'm so glad you understood. First, let me point out that the injured members are 27, 107, 109. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. Not only did the gentleman not speak about the subject of the agenda, of 15 minutes 13.5 he spoke of something else, but he also violated the dignity of the National Assembly, Article 107, and you are under article 27 to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure, and to apply the measures given to you by Article 109. When, in our presentation, when the president of our parliamentary group presented a political qualification as Davery sees and sees the Brussels Agreement, and we consider it a national interest, and when the persons who signed it so qualified, you first interrupted our president, and then you made two warnings in the order of the Rules of Procedure. I am now saying that MP Marijan Risticevic spoke in his speech about everything except the subject of the agenda. He spoke of all the MP groups of the opposition and I will quote him – he called one a fake farmer, here he called people yellow gnomes and non-workers, thieves. Look in the stenogram, he gave such qualifications. Please, since you've been so sensitive, when it comes to the executives, apply the same degree of sensitivity to the opposition MPs, so here, apply Article 109 to this emergency. The Rules of Procedure, and to Mr. Rističević, you give a warning because he qualified his fellow Members, the MPs, and thus offended them. I think it would then be a parity in applying the interpretation of this Rules of Procedure, or then it remains to withdraw the warnings that you previously said to Bosca Obradovic, because then do not interpret the Rules of Procedure in an even manner.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18304	Please tell me exactly who he meant? Because he didn't answer. No one recognized, no one answered. (Bosko Obradovic: I found myself. Nobody answered. So he didn't say who that fake farmer was, etc. I don't expect him to say it. (Srdian Nogo: Who is the gay Prime Minister? ) Who's the gay president? (Srdian Nogo:) Who sits here. I know one. So we'd better stop. (Srdian Nogo: To put you to the vote. ) Doesn't necessarily mean he's at this level of government. Each of us has some association that Marian Risticevic thought of, and he said a certain year, and then I wasn't in Parliament, so I can't confirm it. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18305	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Brnabic, at first I would like to say that the SNS parliamentary group will vote with all its heart for you and for the proposed ministers in the Serbian government. I would like to tell you, on behalf of the parliamentary group, that in us, the MPs of the SNS, and in all MPs who have been elected on the election list, Alexander Vukic – Serbia wins, you will have a good ally in everything you intend to do and what you have brought out in your exhibition. Your exposé is very seriously written. You covered, with your own exposé, all segments of social life for which the Government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible. As much as your exposés are seriously written, I think they speak enough of the following data. Sometimes numbers say more than just words. Your exposés, which the MPs received, had 88 pages and that, as you can see, was written on both sides. The exposés of Zoran Djindjic had 13.5 pages, the exposés of Mr Zoran Zivkovic from 2003 had six-and-a-half pages, the exposé of Vojislav Kostunica in 2004, had nine pages, the exposé of Vojislav Kostunica from 2007 had ten-and-a-half pages and the exposés of Mirko Cvetkovic from 2008 had eight-and-a-half pages. I think this is enough to talk about how the state was managed and how our governments were in that period when the country was making huge problems, both political and economic and social, and that this government, as well as all governments have to solve since 2012. What I also want to point out, and it is important to point out for the SNS, here some MPs may be eager to be funny or perhaps in a desire to bring some evil blood into the SNS ranks said that you are not a SNS candidate. I say it is and that the SNS has introduced a new style into Serbia's political life. The state should not be viewed exclusively by party glasses. You are an SNS candidate for the Prime Minister not because you have or do not have our party's membership book, but because it is your exposé, which means your government's program is absolutely in line with the SNS programme. It is a programme of a modern, democratic, advanced and developed Serbia. I would also like to point out, and it is important to point out for us from the SNS, given the fact that all of us who represent the SNS in any way, all of us who are fighting for a better and different Serbia headed by Aleksandra Vukic, from 2 April, are practically from the day the presidential elections were concluded, exposed to one barbaric artillery fire, media and political. They tried to convince us that Aleksandar Vucic did not actually win the presidential election, that he was not the winner who won two million and 200,000 votes or nearly 56% of those who went to the polls, but that election winners won 1%, 2.2%, four points something, 5%, etc. As early as April 3rd, you had some sort of spontaneous protest outside the National Assembly of those who did not say that Aleksandar Vukic had stolen the election, but those who claimed to be unhappy with the election results. I think it's something that's not recorded in the civilized and democratic world, that someone gathers because they're unhappy with the fact that the election won by a party candidate or a group of parties. That's what I'm saying, first of all, because of the proposed candidate for Home Secretary. Despite the fact that none of these meetings that have been held here for days and weeks for more than 70 days in front of the National Assembly and in downtown Belgrade, although none of these meetings have been legally held. None of these gatherings were reported, and at these gatherings they could be seen and heard the most terrible paroles and words against Alexander Vukic, above all, but against all those who support and fight for his policy. Maja Gojkovic was on the warrants, her forehead was targeted. I'm not going to quote all those vulgarities that could be seen on certain paroles. Never did the police react for the 70th and a few days, and not that she didn't react, but you couldn't see the cops on the street. No one's hurt. God forbid no one died like Ranko Panic died in 2008. So they tried to derail Alexander Vukic's victory, and it didn't work out for them. It didn't work out for them because you can win with the will of the people. You can hate, you can hate, you can disagree with someone's politics, but you can't change the will of the people. It was the first attempt to politically delegate Alexander Vukic's victory in the presidential election in some way. The second attempt to delegate Alexander Vukic and his victory in the presidential elections is related to Mrs Brnabic's election as prime minister for the composition of the new government of the Republic of Serbia. I hope you agree with me, Mrs. Brnabic. About the next situation was created – what Alexander Vukic has to ask about the new government, he was elected President of the Republic. He now needs to go to the wax museum and must no longer declare anything that has anything to do with the politics of the Republic of Serbia. How come the right of Alexander Vukic, a man who received over two million votes to entrust the mandate to the government of Ana Brnabic? It was a second attempt to delegate itself, to devise Alexander Vukic's victory as well as to disenfranchise both the constitutional and political systems of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to remind those who are unmistakably attacking Alexander Vukic from day to day, and together with him, Mrs Brnabic, and ministers in the future government and all of us who support Alexander Vukic's policy, that one of the principles on which the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia rests is the division of power into legislative, executive, administrative and judicial power. It's a constitutional principle. This is the principle on which the political system of the Republic of Serbia is based. And not only that, the role of the head of state in the political system was written about by Slobodan Jovanovic's largest Serbian lawyer, theorist in his famous work on the state's "Basics of a Legal Theory". I will now read what Slobodan Jovanovic wrote more than 100 years ago about the role of the head of state in the constitutional and political system of a state. "A man, a boss, is at the head of the administrative authority. It is absolutely impossible for him to do all the tasks of the government directly. He performs them through a large number of subjugated organs. Each one of these organs does one part of those jobs. Administrative jobs, therefore, have been dispersed between a large number of different authorities and the unity of the administration is maintained by the fact that its numerous authorities stand under one joint head. The hierarchy of administrative authorities has been calculated to maintain unity in the work of the administrative authority. Following from lower bodies with a tight circle of jobs to higher bodies with a wider circle of jobs, a growing number of authorities are facing until at last several ministers themselves are coming to the hands of the entire state administration. “ And then the sentence by which Slobodan Jovanovic concludes his presentation on the head of state – “They are the ones the head of the administration of which all the administrative authorities have been subdued to. “ The greater legal theorist, Mrs. Brnabic, of Slobodan Jovanovic has not given the Serbian people so far. All that Alexander Vukic does about forming a new government of the Republic of Serbia is absolutely in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is absolutely in line with the highest achievements of Serbian but not just Serbian, legal and political theories. As for the program you have presented, the SNS MP group absolutely supports this program. We also imitate it when it comes to internal and foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia. Today, there were many words about Vidovdan and the importance of Vidovdan in Serbian history. Today our psychics and our pieces are new factories, new roads, new railways, new schools, new hospitals, new kindergartens. These are our psychics that will allow Serbia to win this battle for Kosovo and Metohija as well. Kosovo and Metohija cannot defend in their country's "weak Serbia". Strong Serbia, a healthy Serbia can do that. Your program you have presented is absolutely consistent with the SNS program. We want to finally after centuries and centuries of Serbian dissension and disunity, all Serbs and all Serbian citizens agree and gather to make Serbia really healthy and strong, that Serbs and Serbian citizens look at the world with no one else's eyes. This is neither Russian nor American, this is the Serbian government. As Alexander Vukic said today – this is the government that forms, if formed under someone's pressure, is formed under the pressure of the citizens. So this is the government that will represent and represent all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I wish you a lot of happiness and success, first of all, when it comes to economic and financial policy. I want you to continue with the economic recovery of the Republic of Serbia, and I want you to keep our public finances healthy during your term, as it was during the term of office of Alexander Vukic. I wish you a lot of happiness and success in the sector led by Mrs Zorana Mihajlović, which means further construction of road and railway infrastructure, this means further improvement of air traffic. I want you to continue with that good trend, which Alexander Vukic started, attracting a large number of investments, opening new jobs, increasing GDP, reducing public debt, increasing surpluses, and reducing deficits. It won't be easy for you, because you inherit a successful, brave, strong, and energetic man. But, listening to you today all day, from the moment you exposed your exposés, so here until a few minutes ago when you answered the questions of the MPs, I am convinced that you have this energy, that courage, that determination absolutely, and therefore you will have the unreserved support of the SNS, or its parliamentary groups. As for the foreign policy you've been running for, we're also absolutely in favour. The strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia is membership in the EU and everything we do, we are doing to reform Serbia's society from the inside and prepare it for a moment when Serbia will become an EU member. But we don't do it, and it's important to emphasize ourselves because of Serbian citizens, we don't do it for the EU, we do it for us, because it's in the interest of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens, that there are more roads, more schools, more hospitals, and better agriculture, and better healthcare, and better and more efficient justice, and of course better and more efficient state administration. In all this, we support your policy of not imposing sanctions on the Russian Federation, we support your policy of continuing to deepen good and better relations with both Russia and China and with all our other friends in the world. I know that, and all SNS MPs know that, and so do those who have criticized you, but they are simply doing it for daily-political reasons, that the position of the Republic of Serbia in the international community is not a bit simple. We have friends in the world, and we have countries that may be a little less of our friends, but we simply have to cooperate with them, and we can't. The history of the 20th century teaches us, whenever we Serbs felt that the fate of the world depended on us, we experienced severe defeats both political, military, and demographic. The heroes of some today, counting your blood cells, say we should lead politics towards Kosovo and Metohija, as we should defend Serbs in the environment, and I want to say because of the citizens of Serbia that wise peoples do and how the peoples who, unfortunately we Serbs are very often included, are a little less wise. From World War II, we both went out as winners. The Serbs lost every seventh man, every seventh man, woman and child, every 44 Englishman. Let us Serbs be smart, as my colleague Risticevic said, let us be wise and take care of Serbia, strengthen Serbia, heal it. When we strengthen it and recover it, it will also be able to preserve both Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija and guarantee the highest degree of human rights and freedoms and Serbs in Croatia, and Serbs in Montenegro, and Serbs in Macedonia, and to strengthen the good ties and relations we have with the Republic of Serbia anyway. Finally, Mrs. Brnabic, since I know that you have worked hard to improve our state administration, and since I know how much you know, how difficult it is to reform the state administration, to finish with the words, again Slobodan Jovanovic – the legislative authority is thinking, the administrative authority of the work. The legislative authority is asked for the versatility of the observation and objectivity of the trial, of the administrative authority the speed of decision-making and energy of implementation. I want you, Mrs. Brnabić, to be quick to decide and energetic in performance, just as it was the government of Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-28-0.u18306	Thank you. We are done with authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. Today's work ends with this and we start tomorrow at 10.00. I apologize to Ambassador Nenad Canka, but the consensus found that we were tired.
