ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16138	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the e-system MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 117 MPs are present in the hall. In view of this, in accordance with Article 88(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. Thank you. [[after breaks]] I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 128 MPs are present in the hall. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's Messenger Slavisa Ristic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16140	Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, I would like to address the parliamentary issue to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Office for Kosovo and Metohija and Telecom Serbia, and ask for an explanation in writing, by proposing that this information be delivered to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where we will consider this information, to finally shed light on agreements signed in Brussels, related to telecommunications. Because we have completely different developments on the ground when we implement this agreement compared to what we heard in 2015, and later in November 2016, when we received information from the authorities, above all from Marko Đurić, that we have preserved the property of Telecom on Serbia, that Telecom will continue to work on Kosovo and Metohija without any interference, that this is one of our greatest diplomatic victories, etc. There are other things happening on the ground, you heard that on May 1st other operators, VIPs and Telenor, in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, and Telecom Serbia continued to work as the daughter of the Belgrade Telecom company, however, by registering with the institutions of the unrecognized state of Kosovo. So we have a situation that we've allowed our company to register with so-called. an independent Kosovo, in a state which we do not recognise, or in a country which is not recognised by this authority by the To God. On the other hand, there are many other problems, and we have a situation that, therefore, that daughter of the company we claim to be our Serbian, will pay all taxes so-called. independent Kosovo and help financially independent Kosovo. We also have a situation that all employees who worked in the "Telecom of Kosovo" in the area of KiM received an end to the contract at Telecom of Serbia and had to make new contracts to work with the new daughter of the company, with General Director Predrag Culibrck ordering them to simply take out personal documents as a condition so-called. An independent piece. So they had to change their citizenship so they could keep working. Also, out of 15 telecommunications users in KIM, there are already a number of problems. One of these problems is that I can't say they pay by phone a variety of services here in Serbia. I personally tried to pay for parking on this 064 number yesterday. I tried to pay for parking here in Belgrade and got a message – the respected user this service is not allowed to you. It's a complete lie that nothing has changed. Unfortunately, we now have not a Serbian but an Albanian company. We created this company, the daughter of the company Telecoma Serbia, and at its head, the head of the management board of the new Kosovo company is Zoran Milojevic Zelja, otherwise known as SNS expert for local elections in Mionica, Luciani, Vrbas, Zajecaru, etc. who, by his own admission, says he's a private entrepreneur, but apparently he has far greater qualities, even for this area of telecommunications, and otherwise, as an expert on local elections, we know that in the context of the campaign he led, he coached voters and committee candidates, those who didn't want to listen. For the matter to be serious, what is worst in this agreement, it is that users of phone services at KIM will have to make new contracts with that daughter of the firm and as one of the conditions is that all of us who have used these services so far must take out personal documents so-called. independent hairs, and as a condition for the ID card, so-called Independent Kosovo is the citizenship of the Republic of Kosovo. I ask the prime minister and all those who have signed this agreement – who has allowed them to change our citizenship and make it a condition? A very short question for you, Madam President – when will you schedule a special session for KIM when will we consider these issues?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16141	Time. Thank you very much. Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16142	Dear fellow Members of the People, it helps God all. Today, I would like to ask two questions to the resolution ministers and first refer to the minister without portfolio Slavica Djukic Dejanovic and her work over the past 10 months since the formation of the current government of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, we are constantly in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in these 10 months not receiving a report on the work of ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. According to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, ministers are required to submit a report on their work every three months and then to attend and attend meetings of the relevant assembly committees and to answer the questions of the MPs. That's what the ministers in this government of the Republic of Serbia never do. This is an irresponsible government of the Republic of Serbia, and the real example is precisely Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, whom I want to ask certain questions. Namely, no one knows what 10 months as a minister without a portfolio for demographics and population policy is doing Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. It was only these days that we received a brief statement on her part that is actually the best proof of the defeat of her complete work, that the government of the Republic of Serbia has singled out one million euros from the budget for population policy in Serbia. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the city of Belgrade has singled out twom euros for a "music fountain" in Slavija, and the government of the Republic of Serbia has singled out twice as much, one million euros for a complete population policy throughout Serbia, twice as much as one fountain in Slavia in the city of Belgrade. That is why my question to Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic is going exactly that way – how is it possible that in 10 months she has not launched a single project on population policy, how is it possible that she is now asking local self-government that they have working bodies for demographics, that they have projects, to allocate funds in the budget when half of the current calendar year is? So, one completely disintegrated one radically invented to divide the party's prey after the ministry's election without portfolios to host a party coalition chamber and to honor the coalition deal, without doing anything in the field of fighting the white plague as national priority number one. The minister herself admits in her statement that only on the basis of this experimental period will she pass certain laws that need to improve the population situation in Serbia. So there is no idea and no solution at this time how to fight the white plague in the Serb people. The second question is directed to ministers Alexander Vulin and Nebojsa Stefanovic. It concerns the serious concerns of a large number of Serbian citizens in which the migrant crisis will go. It is the problem of the citizens of Subotics, citizens of Tutina, Zupski Aleksandrovac, a series of other cities and municipalities in Serbia. What exactly are they worried about? They are concerned about the information that I have received from the state secretary, Dr Nenad Ivanisevic, of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, where the Government of the Republic of Serbia has recognised that up until now 16 local self-government in Serbia has made local action plans for the care of migrants, that 38 units of local self-government are under way to amend and supplement local action plans, that the government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted a regulation on the programme for the use of funds to address housing needs and other programmes for the integration of migrants in 2017, that the Ministry of Education has sent a professional instruction by the signing of Minister Sarčević on 5 May to include migrant students in the system of education. The manual was signed by Minister Sarcevic himself, and the content refers to the inclusion of migrants in the school system regardless of previously acquired knowledge, with the obligation to provide a pedagogical assistant. I ask the questions to the competent ministers – have they resolved the housing issues of refugees, internally displaced persons from Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina, from Kosovo and Metohija, so that they now have time and capacity, strength and resources to solve and provide housing for migrants? Did they solve the problem of inclusion in Serbian schools? Did they solve pedagogical and other assistants for students, people with disabilities, so now they have time to integrate migrants into the school system? Serbia is very concerned about strengthening the migrant crisis. More than 8,000 migrants are in Serbia and I ask for clear answers from the competent ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16144	Thank you. You've wasted your time. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16145	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, I ask the question of the Minister of Culture and Information, the Minister of Business and the Government of the Republic of Serbia about privatising and implementing a set of media laws and privatising media and what are the effects and results of media privatisation. The idea was to ensure transparency of the functioning and ownership of media houses when the Law on Privatisation of the Media Law was adopted, to ensure that the state came out of ownership in the media, to provide citizens with transparent, true and timely information. It seems to me that today we have a situation that resembles everything except what it was when you explained the motives for adopting a set of media laws. A few days ago, we had a day marked as Freedom of Media Day, and it seems to me that in Serbia today we cannot boast of it, because the media is all but free, impartial and not the media from which the state came out. So the media situation today is worse than when today's president and prime minister served as the minister of information in the 1990s. You can see that on countless examples. One of them is "Tanjug" and this is also a continuation of my question – what is the status of the Tanjug News Agency today, which was shut down on 31 October 2015 in accordance with the law, but today it works uninterruptedly and not only secures financing, but also provides profit from its business. It is not in accordance with the law and they seem to become another mark of your reign, or another fan. In addition to the "Savamale" phantoms, we have a phantom from the media area such as the Tanjug News Agency. I wonder how her status will be resolved and how will the Tanjug function in the next period? He's not the only Tanjug. You have countless examples of local media where you, under media laws, allegedly wanted to professionalize the work of the media. Now you have a situation that Kragujevac TV has been shut down after privatisation and that you now want to return it and the government has made a decision that Kragujevac TV with all the debts that came back to the City of Kragujevac in the meantime. Of course, what else can I say to that, but that you gave some Radojica Milosavljevic, some Gasic and others to privatize these TVs, to play with them a little bit, and then to get them back to the state to finance it. Neither the state nor its citizens nor its citizens are the media, nor can they be toys or any individual, or any government. Of course, this exit of the state from the media was such that the funds from the local budget and other state institutions privatised the media. Privatised are those who were similar to the regime and today are not financed from their professional business, i.e. private firms provide funds from competitive funding through local self-government units. As a rule, in most cases, those media that are similar to the Government of the Republic of Serbia receive the highest amounts of funds and then they serve to conceal the truth and state of society, serve to manipulate, serve to create an atmosphere of fear, create an atmosphere of hatred, and that you regularly have series of different headlines that call for wars. You have on TV shows introduced during one period of coup, various situations in the Lambs and all with the idea of actually distracting attention from the truth and state in which the Republic of Serbia is today. That is why I am as an MP for the People's Movement of Serbia and our parliamentary group Social Democratic Party, the National Movement of Serbia submitted yesterday a proposal for education of the polling committee to determine the situation in the media following the privatisation and state of agencies and media houses whose status has not been resolved, such as "Tanjug", such as "Politics", "News", because a few days ago we could hear from the Minister of Culture and Information himself who is now trying to find some new way to function these media houses, and perhaps now they also return to the state's credentials, which says that you continue to violate the laws that you adopt here yourselves most of the MPs from the ruling structures in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16146	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16147	Thank you. I'll try to ask the question I tried again last week, but I was prevented from it. The public's interest weighs on the interests of the government of the Republic of Serbia not to answer the simple question – which is why Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic sided with Zvezdan Jovanovic, the killer Zoran Djindjic, and not Officer Dalibor Karanovic, the honorable officer who is one of the biggest anti-drug fighters in police today, in Serbia. The two police unions stood behind Dalibor Karanovic, 90 of his colleagues supported him by signing support, asking the authorities to react, the prosecutor's office also to react. Dalibor Karanovic is a police officer threatened by drug dealers from Backa Palanca. Dalibor Karanovic, an honorary Serbian police officer, has filed a criminal charges against which the government of the Republic of Serbia is not being treated and asked – how is it possible not to act on criminal charges to endanger the security of the official? What's that criminal report in the drawer for? At the end of last year, several people reportedly sold narcotics to minors in Backo Palanca. Dalibor Karanovic came out on the spot and asked those present to legislate. One of them, the son of Zvezdan Jovanovic refused to do so. Under the rules of the service and the Police Act, he was detained for only 10 minutes to determine his identity. This year on February 13th, Zvezdan Jovanovic writes a letter to Nebojsa Stefanovic in which he calls police angry dogs. I ask Nebojsa Stefanovic another question -- how could he not have responded to the writing of Zvezdan Jovanovic, who calls the honorable Serbian police angry dogs? On February 14th, so immediately the next day, Nebojsa Stefanovic reacts by suspending from the cabinet of the minister, the Internal Control Sector, according to Stara Jovanovic's report, is that officer Dalibor Karanovic is being punished, he continues to run against him. Witnesses who gave evidence, the Internal Affairs Sector planted false statements they signed, which they said were false after they made their personal statements before the prosecution, the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Backo Palanca and Novi Sad. I ask the third question to Nebojsa Stefanovic -- why did the Internal Control Sector, within the Ministry of Interior, plant false statements to honoring Officer Dalibor Karanovic? Is that because Stara Jovanovic asked him to? Is it possible that we have ministers who choose Zvezdan Jovanovic from between murderer Zoran Djindjic and honorable officers who fight every day not to sell drugs to children on the street, to choose Zvezdan Jovanovic? How is it possible that the Government of the Republic of Serbia still has ministers who have been or have been in very close relations with the "Zemun Clan" and how long will this situation be in Serbia? It is obvious that Zvezdan Jovanovic is the head of many in the government of the Republic of Serbia, to speak and frame Serbian police, to speak when and who should be suspended, removed, possibly tell the prosecution when he will launch criminal responsibility against honorable Serb police officers who are doing his job. From the day he was suspended, and this ends, Dalibor Karanovic from his post at the Bačka Palanka police station has zero drug confiscation and this open market of narcotics in that part of Serbia, near the border with Croatia where drug trafficking is huge. It is all to honor Minister Stefanovic and I want him to answer questions and I will ask questions until he answers why he was put in the defense of Zvezdan Jovanovic, not the honorable Serbian policeman? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16148	The word is Mariana Maraš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16149	Dear Presidents, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today, using my right to Rules of Procedure under Rule 287, I would like to request a notice from the Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, and the issue concerns the status of civil persons with war. Since World War II, there has been a category of civil people with disabilities in our legislation, the laws have changed, but the civilian victims and their families have had legal rights to protection and a certain amount of responsibility, as well as a fair compensation for the consequences of the wounded and loss of a family member. The 1996 Civil Victims Act is now in force, and according to our knowledge and knowledge, civil disabled organisations have prepared a new law. According to the information we have, a large number of civilian war victims will be left without the authority they've had so far. The restrictions are in obtaining documentation. To remind the civilian victims are considered to be persons who have established a degree of disability of up to 50% and above. There are among them campers who are killed by explosives and wounded. There is also a particular problem in the community organisation of civil disabled War Vrbas-Kula, where several members of this organisation who have a 50% disability cannot exercise their right because they cannot reach the original documents. Of course there is a category with a degree of disability of 50% and less that do not have this status. My question to the minister would be - what is the most optimistic way to resolve civil invalid war status for all of our citizens who would eventually lose their authority under the new law, because it is the acquired rights of a group of citizens based on the consequences of war crimes and armed acts, and it is estimated that these extensions could lose about 15,000 persons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16150	Thank you. The word is Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16151	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with my question, I am addressing Prime Minister Alexander Vukic and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. Why has the Government of Vukic-Dacic, or the Progressive-Social Government, which has lasted for five years in continuity, completely left behind the problem of prominent Serbian statesmen, military commanders who have been unjustly sentenced to The Hague tribunal, who have been sentenced to dragon sentences for fabricated crimes? You remember, after the government of Vukic-Dacic was formed, she was formally Dacic-Vucic at the time, but we all know that Aleksandar Vukic as the first vice president was actually the practical head of the government, she sent Justice Minister Selakovic to visit almost all Hague indictees. Soon after him, Tomislav Nikolic sent his adviser Oliver Antic with the same intent. They talked to almost all the prisoners, I know only one with whom they didn't, although they were climbing out of the stained veins and making big promises that the government would do a lot of things to help families, to ease the prison of convicts, indictees, inmates. The pledges went towards the government's push before the UN Security Council to make a decision to allow all Serbs convicted in The Hague to maintain a pronounced sentence in Serbia. It would make their position much easier, easier for families to visit. It'd be like they're halfway home. However, as promises were made then by Mr Selakovic and Mr Antic, so far nothing has been done. I remind you that in Denmark still the prison of Prime Minister of Republika Srpska Radoslav Brdjanin, that in Finland still has General Nebojsa Pavkovic, in Estonia the president of Republika Srpska, to whom the term of office has not expired, Milan Martic, General Dragomir Milosevic and Milan Lukic, that in Germany General Stanislav Galic and Colonel Vujadin Popovic, in Poland's prison Radislav Krstic, who had already been slaughtered once by Arab prisoners in England, had already been cut off by his neck vessels and at the last moment his life was saved, and in France still been enslaved by former President of the municipality of Prijedor Milomir Stakic. So, I'm talking about people who are undoubtedly innocent in The Hague who are convicted, to whom no guilt has been proven. There are still four Serbs in The Hague. Stojan Zupljanin and Mico Stanisic were convicted of fabricated crimes. The first degree was convicted of crimes by Republika Srpska President Radovan Karadzic and a verdict is expected on General Mladic, who was the commander-in-chief of the Republika Srpska Army. General Mladic is in a very difficult state of health, and it is obvious that his death is timed right after his verdict. They tried to do that with Slobodan Milosevic, and they moved on to something. It won't cross twice, they'll do it exactly this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16152	Thank you. It's been a while. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16153	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, I will ask a few questions, for the simple reason that I am touched today, touched by the fact that drug dealers are told by those who are the leading drug dealer in the Balkans, and perhaps in the world as the biggest investor. I suppose they thought that what was grown in Uruguay and Latin America should be grown in Serbia and that farmers should bring into combinations highly profitable cultures. I am touched by this and therefore I ask – was Darko Saric an investor and participated in privatisation directly or indirectly in the Republic of Serbia during the rule of the former regime and when did this happen and which combined and which companies were it? I am also asking a question about Zoran Ćopić Ćop, to answer me – at what time, in what years did he participate in the privatisation of IKL in Zemun and in the privatisation of the sugar company in Sremska Mitrovica? Let's see whose merits are, which parties, because it's constantly transferring something to us. With this in mind, regarding the accusations that we are related to the Zemun clan and Zvezdan Jovanovic, I ask the following questions. From 2000 to 2003, how many members of the JSO were promoted? I'm also asking a question - were the biggest state officials, members of the DS at the time, visited the Tower several times by JSO, what are the photos confirming? Is it true that Zvezdan Jovanovic was also in the special operations unit under the control of the government of the Republic of Serbia? Also, is it true that senior DS officials, along with Mr. Bracanovic, who is accused of something, are not entering what, is it true, that they visited JSO again, where Zvezdan Jovanovic was? Is it true that senior DS officials, members of the federal government accompanied by members of the Republic government, staged several months before the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic and staged a special event together with Bajaga for the unit? These photos confirm that I'm telling the truth. So, we also have a representative of the federal government, the interior minister, and we have a representative of the Republic government, Mr. Mihajlovic's interior minister, who also visited the JSO on that occasion, the machine shows Zvezdan Jovanovic. I also have to ask – is it true that the president of the DS visited and fallen in his own time, and they are acting as some peace group, and he was suffocating along with Radovan Karadzic, what does the photo confirm? So, I want a precise answer to these questions, given that we are being honored by some connection between us and the Zemun clan. So I ask further, did any of the DS officials then and government officials visit Dusan Spasojevic and a team in central prison for what, and did this happen after the arrest in France and extradition to our country and, instead of being tried, some people visited him there. There are indications that it was the high-ranking DS officials, the officials of the time. With that in mind, a few months after that, they were released. So I ask you, all of us together, if it hadn't happened, if it hadn't been for those visits that resulted in the release of liberty, would then have been the killing of Prime Minister Djindjic by the Zemun clan and the JSO officer with whom the DS, its officials who were also state officials, had something to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16156	Time. Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? The word is Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16157	Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, so far the parliamentary group has asked 32 questions to the Prime Minister and President of the Assembly 20 times and to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia 12 times, and none of the answers to these questions have been answered so far. When we ask the question, that citizens know, professional services type that question and instructions to officials, in this case the presidents of the Assembly and the Prime Minister, and they have an obligation, under Article 287. The Rules of Procedure, to answer questions in writing within 15 days, not verbally, but to answer them in writing. These are the rules. I hope we all agree, she'd have to respect herself. The question for the speaker of the assembly is – why is it not answering the parliamentary questions of MPs from the parliamentary group Enough? A question for the Prime Minister – why are they ignoring the question of MPs from the parliamentary group enough? Don't they understand that disrespecting the rules introduces a very bad practice and sends a signal to citizens that some rules apply to them and do not apply to senior party officials and officials? So this is a very important question for the rule of law and for respecting the rules and laws that would have to be established in this congregation. Then we ask a question for the President of the Assembly. At the previous session, we had a discussion on where MPs from the opposition are not given the right to reply and when they are offended, and representatives of the ruling majority are always given the right to replication. Then we received an explanation from then-President Arsic that when someone calls the MP "Sasa Kradulovic" or, say, "Sasa Rasulovic", the MP has no right to reply because it is not his full name and last name and is not likely to be recognized in those words. We think it is childlike and immature, however, we have received an official explanation from the Vice-President of the Assembly. The question for the president of the Assembly, if we, for example, behave as immaturely from this pay phone, and we talk about the "Serbian backward party" or we talk about "Lazoljub Arsic" or "Lazoljub Risticevic" or we address "Kradoljub Vukic", will that also mean that the ruling majority will not get the right to replication? We think that this is unacceptable, that this is the humiliation of this home and that this practice should be interrupted and that we are not talking about that, by Article 106, this kind of thing should not be said at all, and by Article 107. So this is a question for the president of the assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16163	Thanks, time. I will see why my answers to the question do not come to your parliamentary group, and if they are in accordance with Article 287, that is, within my rights and obligations, I will check that. You have as much as I know consultants who are employed and indefinitely, they come to their jobs...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16164	I ask you not to answer orally but in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16165	Because of the public so there wouldn't be any delusions. So, there are indefinitely paid employees who regularly come to their jobs, for other persons who want to come to parliament for some reason, we will see in the General Secretariat, probably from the day that three people have entered this hall, and they do not belong to the category of consultants, or MPs, and they have played guitars and I don't know what they've been doing, they've been a little bit sharpened by some controls, so that we don't think our parliament would be equal to all the parliaments in Europe and in a world where there are strict and important rules of conduct for MPs and for all interested people who would go around the hall or play at a time when we have breaks or we end regular work. The word has the People's MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16166	Dear colleagues and colleagues, using the right to comply with the Rules of Procedure, I ask the question – the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Sports and Youth, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education. The question is, in fact, not only about the operation in the area of these ministries. I even think that every single one of us is obliged to confront this evil that I'm going to try to talk about. With Serbia in addition to the many torments that put us different under the influence of friends, one evil that is called sects and NGOs. I think that's where we failed, and we're not working hard enough to solve that problem. Young people most often, and others, are in grave danger from these organisations that are trying to use the current life position of people in Serbia, a lot of things that are negative. These sects have many and many NGOs. Some of them have the name "Black Rose", some "Young Lions", some promote a learning called Shambala, but the common goal of all of them is to create a bad situation among the young population most often and to ask this question has affected an article in the paper where Professor Mirjana Tomovic sincerely presented her problem in which she showed that she lost her son 15 years ago from that sect called "Black Rose" and her struggle these 15 years to try to make it possible for the next generations never to happen. Trying to look at this problem, I was interested in seeing who was dealing with these problems and who could help. Once an MP here in the Assembly was Sladjan Mijaljević, he was an SRS MP, he was one of those who deal with this problem, Zoran Lukovic also dealt with this problem but I see that these people are also withdrawing from the problem, most likely because they do not have the systemic support of the ministries and our entire government. I'm counting on it to be a big problem and it's hard to solve. But if we can't do something ourselves, we can look at how the EU countries did it and the two strongest countries in France and Germany, and an even better example of how Russia did it and how it tried to solve the problem. I think this question will awaken the conscience of many who can help solve something like this, that no family ever again, no single person will suffer from this evil called the sect and the NGO. Are there any NGOs whose performance is positive? Most likely that there are and I don't refer my question to them, but those who are trying to do their own personal benefit or those of their sects and NGOs to convince young people to raise their hand to themselves, to kill themselves, to overwrite certain assets to them and many things that are neither positive nor at this time that are not similar to a country like Serbia, we must root out. We need to gather our strength to solve this problem. I appeal to the ministries that I mentioned to try to make their proposals and to set a strategy, and all of us together, to the common forces, united to fight this evil. I think that a large number of Serbian citizens, especially young people, are already under the influence of these sects, and if we don't do something soon enough, we'll make a big mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16167	I would like to inform you that today the sessions are prevented from attending: Djordje Milicevic, Vladimir Marinkovic and Nada Lazic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I convened the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). As soon as possible, the Rules of Procedure shall consider the proposals for acts set out in the proposed agenda of the sitting. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before setting out the agenda for the session, we will decide on proposals for putting on the agenda for the urgent procedure and proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda. The DS parliamentary group has proposed to put on the agenda following an urgent procedure – a proposal to amend the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting a motion to vote. I conclude the vote - for the vote - 140, against - no one, abstentioned - voted - 17 MPs. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The president of parliament proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda – a proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, also on a proposal from the DS. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote - for the vote - 141 v - no one, with abstentions, voted 16 MPs. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank KFW Frankfurt on May, under the responsibility of the Electric Network of Serbia, the regional energy efficiency programme of the transmission system. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 129, v – two, abstention – one, 25 MPs did not vote. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank KFW Frankfurt in May, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise of the Elektroprivred Serbia, Belgrade, Project Modernisation of the TE "Nikola Tesla A". I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – two abstentions – no, 24 MPs did not vote. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – Proposal for a law supplementing the Deposit Insurance Agency Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – two abstentions – there is no. I find this proposal accepted. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – Proposal for a law supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 132 against – two abstentions – no, 24 MPs did not vote. I find that a proposal has been accepted. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Waste Management Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against two abstentions, voted with 158 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested putting on the agenda a draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The New Serbia parliamentary group -- the Movement for Rescue of Serbia, proposed that the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. On the basis of article 92, National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the amendment of the Law on Agricultural Land. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The National MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Criminal Code. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law on the financing of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on textbooks. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Maja Vidinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on the Budget System. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Gordana Comic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people were killed. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Jesic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the draft amending and supplementing the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Jesic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of Maja Gojkovic from the post of National Assembly President. Ambassador Goran Ciric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16168	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, we have applied for your shift and, above all, vote and support to discuss how the Assembly works in this assembly, of course, and in previous meetings. Last time I read an integral explanation, I'm going to tell you what the point is. So, you have endangered the dignity of the work of this Assembly, which calls upon the Assembly, by allowing the function of the Assembly, which has three branches of government in the Republic of Serbia in the task, control, and above all by the executive authorities, to govern the government of the Republic of Serbia and its Prime Minister, Aleksandar Vukic, in the course of a pre-election campaign in the selection of the President of the Republic of Serbia, and in such a way as to compromise the dignity of the Republic of Serbia and its Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic, and we were able to see for ourselves in both direct transfers and public appearances. Another important thing is your relationship and reason why the Assembly should not work during the campaign, because you told the public and citizens of Serbia that the Republika Srpska Assembly is a source of instability. I think you have thus injured all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have in some way given confidence, whether 200 thousand, 300, 500 thousand, votes and opposition MPs, as well as MPs. You failed to get rid of your personal relationship with the MPs, because you show one kind of relationship all the time to MPs the position and another relation to the opposition's MPs. You proved this at the beginning of this call, when Professor Dragoljub Micunovic chaired the constitution of the Republika Srpska Assembly and when he gave a two-day break in one normal atmosphere and work, you first jumped out of this place and resented it, and we all witnessed that in such a way he threatened Serbia's stability and that it caused a coup. Watch out, two days of breaks and such accusations of this kind of action – causing a coup. After that, the congregation did not work for 40 days. At the time of the presidential campaign, the Assembly did not work for five months. Despite this personal relationship of yours, you show a systemic attitude towards the Assembly, because we have failed to pass a very large number of laws necessary to improve this reform period... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16169	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal by Goran Ciric for the resolution of Maja Gojkovic from the post of National Assembly President. I conclude the vote: for – 16 MPs, against – three, abstention – no one voted 139 MPs. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16170	I know that a large part of my fellow MPs are expecting these bill proposals so they don't stay satisfied on that side. For more than two years, I have been proposing these amendments to the Higher Education Act. Repeat once again, it is not difficult for me, for which I don't know which way, the reasons are known, the wider public of Serbia, everyone in Serbia, which is the flood of fake diplomas, fake PhDs, false people, who are at the top of Serbian authorities, and who have behind them a criminal act of counterfeiting, or boasting false diplomats. This applies to still the current president of Serbia, this feature for the interior minister, for the mayor of Belgrade, for dozens and dozens of people who, I must confess to you by the will of the citizens of Serbia, but with the will clearly given in ignorance and ignorance have become people who are handling this country. If someone who's obviously committed a crime who's not being prosecuted because it's such an atmosphere in society, because it's so rational, and all of the other halfegies that we get when something is done against reason and the Constitution, that's why society is the way it is. Why? As a result, children are not treated in hospitals and budgets, but are treated with SMS messages, which is why foreign policy is being managed by finding a Walker from oil, so he is presented as Serbia's biggest opponent, which is why the government and its president say is powerless in front of fans, which is why there are real tunnels that can't go through, which is why we have huge growth in everything and everything about the economy in this country and the huge decline in the standards of all Serbian citizens, which is why we have a falsification of the state. We still have a beautiful country, dear, proud, with people who should be proud to be her citizens, but we don't have a state, because the state is in forgeries. With these changes in laws, we can come up with such customs, that such a habit, that such a practice is interrupted and that future generations of Serbia will be people who will be aware, that the people who have given them trust to perform this or that function will not be people who have found some sort of roll toilet paper or some other bad paper, went and wrote to some fraud diplomat who today is taking a place for the smart people who are running from this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16171	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for 11 MPs, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16172	And this is a law that's been in the process for over two years. All around us are obvious examples of the need to pass a good law, which would arrange the area of planning and building the arrangement of space. We have almost every street, if the construction was so intense, but since it's not, then in every part of town we have an obvious example of illegal construction. I have already spoken of the building in Nebojsa 8, and the public has received further information in the past days, and such examples are visible everywhere. We have one in New Belgrade that I see, and the city government has raised something to the public level, I get every day from various parts of Belgrade and evidence from Krnjak, from Ban's hill, choose which part of Belgrade or any city in Serbia where anything is built, every other, third, the building is minimally suspicious, and possibly absolutely against the law. Finally, we have the biggest example of illegal construction in the history of Serbia, in the history of these areas, called collokious -- Belgrade on water, and it is not formally called at all. We don't even know who the investors are, we don't even know who's building it, we don't even know who the designer is. All we know is that the Prime Minister worries us every week about the work going on and on the 17th floor, hoping to see a better future on the other side of the Danube. This law is, I've already said it, but I'll repeat it until you understand and until the Serbian public absolutely establish it in their knowledge, is an accredited version of the law that was passed in 2003. Under the law, every start of construction without a building permit and all the permits that preceded the building permits was a criminal offense with a threatened prison sentence. This, of course, has not been applied since the government that came in 2004, or from governments that came to this day. We've received the Law of Law, which is supposed to solve all these problems. Nor has he solved the primary problems of those objects whose legislation is possible, let alone punish those who do not have permission for any construction, such as the already famous cottages of the former president of the state and many others who defiled their face, but also the face of Serbia by working in an unfair way. Vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16173	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16174	It's just, I have two laws like that. One is financing, one is advertising, uh, health check.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16175	Law on the selection of Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16176	But there's also the mention of advertising...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16177	The election of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16178	Okay. Just give me a second. So that's a bill on selecting MPs, where it's said, where the point is that I asked to ban commercial advertising of candidates, lists and all those participating in the elections, because it's spent a lot of money on each election campaign. It is estimated to be close to 100m euros. Surely Serbia has much better ways to spend that money, because it is not the money of political parties or candidates, but rather the money of citizens of Serbia, which is used for campaigns, was formally through that part of the budget that is given to political parties and voters, whether that is an even bigger part of it, which is the grey money that is converted through public enterprises, institutions, dirty government jobs not only of this, but also of some former ones, into money used by political parties. What's the point? The point is that there are no ads, those dumb, aesthetic, political, morally unacceptable on television, but that Serbian citizens are familiar with a political programme of candidates in a way that is otherwise older than commercials, which is the way that is applied in normal countries, in countries with a long and deep democratic tradition, which is the TV dual of candidates, and before that, the presentation of their programmes. This has not been seen in Serbia in the last five, six years for sure. I'm afraid it hasn't been before at the level necessary to strengthen democratic principles and create the foundations of democracy in a society, but for the last five years it's become so bad that it's completely vomity. This money spent on these bad purposes can be used, without demagogue intentions I say it, first of all, to treat our sick people abroad who cannot find help in Serbia. I also think that there is a need to find special means to treat children. There are some other ways that would be good for reviving production, especially agricultural ones, but in the right way, to settle people where they are abandoned areas in our country, surely there are much better ways to use that money. I call on you to vote against further bad ads from bad politicians.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16179	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16180	Thank you. And I'm gonna do this all the time. Of course, it's a concern for condemning genocide, war crimes and similar ugly things wherever they happen, whenever they happen, whoever they happen to. It's a fight against the definition that there are good and bad crimes, good and bad criminals, that there are criminals who are patriots and that there are others. That's just not true. Evil is always evil, whoever does it, whenever he does it, with any excuse, under quotes, that he does it, whoever the victim is. I've spoken more than once, and I'll do it again. Both the Serbian people and all the citizens of Serbia and all those living in these areas were victims of both war crimes and genocide, some of which were accomplished. And we in our modern history, which is at least in the last 200 and a few years, have always been on the right side, except in some disgusting, bad years of the 1990s, we could always say that what we have done as a nation, as a people, as an army of this state, as other institutions of this country, that it was on the side of justice, on the side of civilization, on the side of the protection of freedom, and that is why it is our obligation to join a large number of countries that have already condemned the genocide of Armenians that occurred at the beginning of the last century, which was done by the Ottoman Empire. Of course, the present Turkey, at least two years ago when I started talking about this topic I was sure of it, has no ambition to go back to those times. I hope this is still the position of Turkish leadership today, but I repeat, this resolution has nothing to do with Turkey's current one. This is the condemnation of something that happened a hundred and a few years ago and this is a way for Serbia to get another argument more when it seeks the condemnation of war crimes, genocides and anything similar to its citizens, to its people. If we adopt this resolution that can't do anything wrong to Serbia, and it can bring a lot of good, we're going to line up big countries, serious countries that have already done it. I've already spoken, from the Russian Federation, through France, Italy, Spain, many states of the United States, many countries in our environment, and I think Serbia is a place among these countries, and it's our obligation to condemn genocide whenever it happens and whoever did it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16181	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for ten against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16182	It's a law that's about that Law on selecting Members of the People. In both laws, it defines, according to my proposal, the inability to continue commercial advertising candidates, electoral lists, everything I have already called poor propaganda by bad politicians for large pairs of honest citizens of Serbia. I think it's very good for the congregation's majority to ban the possibility that in the next election cycle their opponents might get the opportunity to spend their national money in the same dirty way as you've done so far. Of course, it's probably not the fault of any individual of you, it's the fault of those who operate the parties or coalitions that you belong to. But generally, that would be a very good thing. To repeat the experience of developed countries, in most EU countries, in some other non-EU countries, but have a long democratic tradition, commercial advertising of political parties is prohibited. That goes for France, where we've had elections recently. This also applies to the UK, a recent EU member. That goes for Spain, Italy, Germany, Norway. Many countries succeed in their citizens, politicians from these countries succeed in presenting their programmes to their citizens, to motivate them to go to the polls, to make the percentage of those who went out 75, 80%, to get a large number of votes, to have the right legitimacy and legality of the functions they were elected to, without any commercial advertising. I think it's a good opportunity for Serbia to join the ranks of those good countries that care about democracy, but also care about the standard of their citizens, care about their children, care about their future, care about their education, care about their cultural heritage. The money spent in one campaign in Serbia for one election is enough either to treat all the children who are today waiting for help from SMS or Lord God to get conditions to be treated. The money would be enough for that, or would be enough to complete all works on cultural institutions, for example, in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and other Serbian cities, where the works began five, six, ten, fifteen years ago. We'd get the National Museum if it wasn't for advertising political parties. We'd finally get a done salon or a museum of contemporary art. We'd get reconstructed full...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16183	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for the vote – 11 against – no one, abstentioned – is anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16184	We are now entering a set of health laws, and of course it is always necessary and everyone who lives on the globe of the Earth, even in Serbia, certainly wants to be healthy, to be able to perform their function, whatever it is. My proposal is that the Government Act, above Article 11 and Article 11, is changed and written – health capacity, incompatibility and conflict of interest, so it says that before the election, every proposed member of the Government works, means, while still a candidate, it must provide the National Assembly with medical assurance about the health capacity to establish a working relationship in state bodies. Also, the other two states that it's incompatible for him to be in any other function, to perform any other function, even though he thought he was capable of any life function. It is very good that candidates for members of the government, which, of course, applies to candidates for MPs and candidates for the president of the state, have the electronic assurance of the relevant health institution, which is necessary for all those who want to establish a working relationship in the public sector, and above all in the state institutions. Since ministers have established a permanent working relationship in the government or not, they have an obligation to be fully committed to their work, to give the last part of the energy to perform the large responsible functions they have received through the National Assembly, and from the citizens of Serbia to determine whether they are capable of it. There's no need to push some people to do something they can't do. They may have good intentions, they may have a good desire, they may be patriots, they may be willing to give up, but they simply have their limitations, whether physically or even more psychologically or psychologically. That's why it's really good to have that doctor's examination done. That wouldn't be news. It would only be the legislation of something that has already happened, which happened in the election of the first democratic government in Serbia's history. It happened in 2001 when all the candidates for ministers in the government of Zoran Djindjic were on VMA before the elections, received a certificate there that they were able to establish a working relationship in the state bodies and as such came before the MPs who had chosen them and who had done very well, most of them, their work until the end of the government, by March 2004.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16185	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic proposed that the agenda be completed by the meeting – Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the election of the President of the Republic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16186	Of course, consistency is part of a good policy, so as I think candidates for the Prime Minister should receive a certificate of their health rightness, as some younger people would say, that the same goes for candidates, as I said, for MPs and for the president of the state. I think there are many reasons that are very good, long known to the Serbian public why this should be done. We have a former president of the state, he's still there the other day, at least he's right by the law, who's done a lot of things that are a big question of whether these things were done with common sense. I don't mean just the cottages next to the Danube or Sava. I don't just mean ending the globe of earthly and natural laws and laws that define water, not law, but conditions that have been like that for millions of years, that we have several plums from this Serbia, that some rivers are going towards the Black Sea, so it's called the Black Sea plum, that some are going towards the Aegean Sea, so it's going to be called the Aegean plum, and our president still had a brilliant idea to combine those two plums and to bring the rivers together, so that we don't know if he's going to go to one or the other or it's going to be a pair, so one day when the steam date is to go to the Aegean, and another day to go to the Black Sea and whether it's going to benefit anything or anything. The project was also related to the ideas of our current ambassador in Beijing, if I'm not mistaken, to a good friend and not just a friend of the current president, who spoke of thousands of billions of new investments coming to us from this great, distant, friendly country called China. We have the same symptoms today. We also have today's announcements from the elected president that this year the Belgrade-Budapest railway will be launched and completed. These are the same symptoms we had a year ago, two years ago, because there was no law on medical examination for members of the government, so it's repeated over and over again, and all the time there's this photo where this prime minister, the elected president, is standing by the meter and by the tracks that were made as a theater of props and where he lets that train go those meters and a half. Of course we have a lot of examples of the same level of importance, but I don't have time to talk about them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16187	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16188	The labour law had a lot of objections when it was passed, when it was proposed. It has been adopted in a way that has become common in this parliament, but the practice has shown very quickly that it has its big holes and that these are holes directly related to the health issue, this time not to the question of candidate health for the president, MPs or members of the government, but to the question of Serbia's citizens, who thought they were lucky to get a job, which they have hired in those companies whose owners are big world firms, from a major renomy come to our country with a motive called 10,000 euros per job. When they spend those 10,000 euros per job, divide 10,000 by 200 euros, the average wage, they leave because they get such a good offer elsewhere. The point is that the amendments to the Labour Act, which I am proposing now, we are coming to the point that we are serious about this law and that the dismissal of workers who are temporarily sick due to serious illnesses, child care, child care, pregnancy, etc. So I propose to amend the Labour Act, so fellow MPs and colleagues, which will be prevented, yes, when someone is sick and is committed either to his child or to his health, to prevent his employer, whoever he is, from firing him and pushing him into total impotence, into complete disaster. So it has nothing to do with left, right, this or that party, new or old, but it has to do with protecting rights, fundamental human rights at the beginning of the 21st century. If that doesn't change, this law in that domain will create from people who happen to be ill, and that happens to everyone, slaves who will be fired because they are sick and who will be pushed into the greatest agony of their lives. Imagine a single mother, and such an example was the primary motive for me to pass this law, which feeds the child, which someone fired without any chance of ever getting a job again. Vote on it and be assured that Serbia is watching whether after that we will all be together and each individual will have a calm conscience.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16189	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The latest proposal, Zoran Zivkovic, to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16190	Last in this session today, there will be more of them of course. There were eight, if I'm not mistaken, no proposal has been accepted, and the reason is that there is no mandatory medical examination for candidates for MPs, because if it existed in Parliament there would not be people who voted against these laws and would not be people who would vote against the last law I was talking about, which is that unhappy, sick people could stay on their jobs until they were cured. That kind of vote is sick. That's why it's necessary to pass a law like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16191	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs of the Dveri Group have proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16192	Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, have been in force since 28 October 2014. No law that lasts three years can be temporary. It is clear that the permanent orientation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to further tax its oldest citizens, and to the pensioners is to take their acquired right and acquired property, which, no doubt, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia represents a pension. This, of course, endangers the economic security of pensioners, thus making economic discrimination against pensioners and all of this clearly says that the government of the Republic of Serbia has shown its courage to introduce austerity measures on the Serbian poverty, on the Serbian middle layer, on our soldiers, police officers, educational and health workers, and on our oldest fellow pensioners. When it was to be saved, when the budget was to be filled, when order and fiscal consolidation were to be introduced in the state of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Alexander Vukic, came to the sense that it would be best to tax its own citizens. Of course, it was possible to sense something much smarter, to tax foreign banks that make extra profits in Serbia, to tax foreign insurance companies, to charge taxes to tycoons, who haven't paid taxes years ago, or to save in other ways, in fact, but the easiest thing was to rob pensioners. After three years, indeed, I again appeal to you, not alone, and not only on behalf of the Dveri parliamentary group, but together with the Association of the Retirement Unions of Serbia and the Association of Unions of Retired Military Persons, to accept this proposal to put the Law on the agenda of today's session on the suspension of the existing Law on the temporary payment of pensions. It would, in fact, be the right thing to do and finally abolish this looting and thieving law against the oldest citizens in Serbia. Of course, if we had predicted here ways to fill the budget of the Serbian state so that the pensioners could return what they had been robbed in the past three years. It is very important, it is not enough just to break this devastating robbery law, it is also necessary to return to the pensioners what the government of the Republic of Serbia has taken from them, or robbed them, in the past three years, and this bill also foresees. How many years did it take to get that pension back?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16193	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MPs of the Dveri Group proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2017 election process, from the day of the presidential elections to the day of publication of the temporary election results at 99.9% of polling stations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16194	I'm always looking forward to it when the proposal to set the agenda comes and the point concerning the establishment of a parliamentary polling committee to determine the truth about election thefts, which, in fact, the SNS has come to power in previous years. That what I'm saying is full of truth is, right now, you're always witnessing by refusing to form a assembly polling committee and establishing the truth about election irregularities, irregularities, manipulations and thefts that took place in the previous period in Serbia's elections. Of course, if you had nothing to hide, you would have formed a congregation survey committee and made certain conclusions that would show that no election theft had occurred. As soon as you vote against forming a parliamentary polling committee, so that we can all study together what was actually happening in the elections, it clearly tells the citizens of Serbia that you have something to hide and that you hide, of course, the ways in which you have performed various elements of electoral irregularities, manipulation and theft. One of these elements is, of course, the pressure on voters working in the public administration, and you're blackmailing them to lose their jobs if they don't raise 20 safe votes for your presidential candidate. Another form of this kind of electoral irregularity is the media darkness in which we live and the practical absence of a single political show in which we face the authorities and the opposition. Believe it or not, the citizens of Serbia may not have paid attention to this data, but in the previous presidential elections, there was not a single one, and in letters and numbers, one single direct television duel between any presidential candidate with another presidential candidate, let alone presidential candidates of the opposition with the presidential candidate of power. What can then be called presidential elections that did not include the face-to-face of candidates, in which there was no debate between the government and the opposition, in which media darkness flooded the entire Serbian political scene, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and its work were abolished. What, of course, I am stressing over and over again -- the Supervisory Board of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which, under Article 99 and Article 100, has not been formed. The law on selecting MPs has very important powers, such as addressing the public in order to protect the moral integrity of the candidate's personality or to warn of the actions of political parties that threaten the equality of the rights of all candidates. So that's what you missed to form here, which is how you showed that you want from... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16195	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs of the Dveri group suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on the genocide of the Independent State of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16196	Dear fellow MPs, I am deeply convinced that there are no SNS or Socialist Party of Serbia voters who would not support this proposal to adopt a resolution on genocide against Serbs in the Independent State of Croatia. Why their people's representatives at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in continuity refuse to put this proposal on the agenda I can't explain it to them, because I can't understand it myself. I cannot understand that there is a Serb sitting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and is not ready to vote that after more than 70 years, one state institution of the Republic of Serbia condemns genocide against Serbs in the Independent State of Croatia. Believe it or not, dear colleagues, it's never been done. No state institution of Serbia has ever dealt with genocide against Serbs in the Independent State of Croatia. Never has a state body of Serbia condemned genocide in Jasenovac, Jadovna and a series of other monstrous death concentration camps, the death industry such as children's camps that existed in the Independent State of Croatia. In the declaration, which we are proposing here, and which I have read to you on many occasions, there is a final part that I will now read to you and which should be the conclusions regarding this declaration. He says, one - that the Republic of Croatia, as a state of Croatian people, accepts the historical and any other responsibility for the genocide of the Independent State of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II. Two, that all crime scenes may be marked in a decent manner, and that all crime scenes may be secured, and that he may remember his many sacrifices. Under three – to preserve and maintain in general as a monument to the victims of the Jasenovo Jasenovo complex of concentration camps for the extermination of Serbs, Jews and Roma. Under four -- to establish and implement a programme of protection and regulation mentioning the area of Donja Gradina, in co-operation with the competent institutions of Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia. Under five -- that in the Republic of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia the same day is set in memory of the victims of genocide in the Independent State of Croatia for Serbs, Jews and Roma. Under six - to establish and pay within a reasonable period fair compensation to the victims of this genocide and their descendants by the Republic of Croatia. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia expects the international and domestic public, especially the states of the World War II anti-fascist coalition, to support this Resolution on the Genocide of the Independent State of Croatia, so that after 70 years of waiting... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16197	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for -13, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs of the Dveri Group have proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16198	Referring to the previous bill that we wanted to fulfill our pre-election promise made to pensioners in Serbia, a more specifically said social partnership agreement with the Association of Pensioners' Unions of Serbia and the Association of Unions of Retired Military Persons of Serbia, we have also submitted these two legislative proposals, wishing to ensure economic security and protect pensioners from discrimination under this authority. So, in addition to the law, which we believe should be abolished the Law on the way of temporary retirement and compensated the pensioners for everything they've been robbed, which you here today have refused to put on the agenda, and this specifically applies to PUPS, false pensioners in Serbia. I want to point this bill to two more very important things that we are proposing here. The first is to return to the law that provision you deleted from the law three years ago, which was in law, which is that every year the pension level must be aligned with the cost of living and rising prices in Serbia. Therefore, our oldest citizens are economically at risk and are subject to certain discrimination in financial and economic terms if this harmonisation of the pension level is not achieved at an annual level with a rise in the cost of life. You have abolished that provision and we ask that the provision be returned to the existing law and thus ensure the economic security of the oldest citizens in Serbia. Another thing that is particularly important, I will explain and why – we are looking for changes in the structure of the members of the board of directors of the PIO Fund because this authority has reduced the number of members of the Management Board from 15 to seven. Of these seven, the government elects four members of the board of directors of the PIO Fund and thus the government has ruled the PIO Fund, taken it into its own hands and is now doing what it wants with the assets of the PIO Fund, which is inadmissible. The property of the PIO Fund is not the property of the Government of the Republic of Serbia but of all those who have been paying contributions to the PIO Fund and those who are today users of the PIO Fund, which are pensioners. The PIO fund is owned by huge assets in Serbia, rehabilitation spas, our healing spas, various medical institutions. The PIO fund has built half of this country and you now want to privatise it, to sell out, to destroy, instead of putting into service the domestic economic development and better filling of the PIO fund itself, which would be for the benefit of the users. Retired.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16199	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for 11 MPs against them. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Parliamentarians of the Dveri Group proposed that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to identify the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2016 election process from the date of the opening of the Republic elections until the date of publication of the final results of the elections. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16200	In order for Serbia's elections to be regular once, we must draw the line and determine what has been going on in the elections so far. I can't understand why you refuse. If you have nothing to be ashamed of, if you have nothing to be afraid of, if you have nothing to hide, if you've never stolen from the election, why don't we form a assembly survey board and see what happened in the 2016 elections? So, gentlemen of power, you have something to hide. You stole from the election. Of course, this is the truth about the 2016 election process. To prove to you that Serbia's electoral irregularity actually looks like I'll only show you two examples. In order for the elections to be the regulatory law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliaments in the article. The 99th and 100th clearly states, look at the law, that a congregation monitoring committee must be formed to monitor the regularity of the election. What are his assignments? Here are a few more quotes from the existing law – monitoring pre-election activities and pointing to any irregularities in the conduct of political parties, candidates and other participants in the election process, controlling the handling of public information funds in the application of the provisions of this law relating to ensuring equal conditions for the presentation of all applicants of the electoral lists and candidates. Under three – it proposes measures to respect the equality of candidates in the presentation of their programmes. When was the last time in Serbia the equality in the presentation of pre-election programmes? When was the last time in Serbia an equal media treatment for all election participants? When was the last time a debate was secured in Serbia, the confrontation between the government and the opposition? Why don't you form the Supervisory Board of this House since 2000? So no one would control how you steal in the election. Why was REM silent during the election? Why didn't he punish broadcasters who don't respect the equality of all election participants in the media? Why don't we have full REM composition, but it's actually disabled to function normally and work? So, anything that represents a control role in controlling fair and fair choices, you've abolished, so you can steal in elections. Therefore, you must not form a congregation survey committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16201	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16202	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable President, respected citizens of Serbia, are it possible every day for DS to propose over 25 amendments and amendments to the law to each new session, and that the ruling majority does not want to discuss any amendments and amendments to the law. The Democratic Party is proposing amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government because all local self-governments, from Surdulica to Sudotica, are in a catastrophic situation. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97(3). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the DS proposes amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government precisely because the life of all Serbian citizens, no matter where they live, comes first. The DS therefore proposes a concrete amendment to the Law on Local Self-Government, i.e. A concrete measure to bring back five billion dinars to local self-government last year. Since you are calling for European laws, let's see how this has been done in the EU that has been seeking DS for 27 years, and finally you are trying. At least that's what you're saying, but we haven't seen it in your specifics in the last few years. The European Charter of Serbia ratified in 2007, which you then voted against guarantees all local self-government political, financial and administrative independence. Unfortunately, local self-government in Serbia has neither political nor financial independence. Financial independence only comes when the SNS orders it, as ordered Tomislav Nikolic's son to make over 70 million dinars out of the 185m budget last year and to Rasim Ljajic in Novi Pazar. So the money only gets the likes of it. In the EU, half of the budget goes to local self-government and autonomous provinces, while in Serbia only 10.2% of total budgets go together to AP Vojvodina and all local self-government. Since 2012, you have taken away 50 billion dinars from Serbian citizens through a reduction in local self-government. That's why your mayor of the Kings opens up as a capital investment traffic lights. Your president of the Municipality of Vozdovac as a capital investment opens a walking crossing, and your mayor in Novi Sad opens a bike trail as a capital investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16203	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Social Protection Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16204	Ladies and gentlemen, this is an extremely important law. We propose amendments to the Social Protection Act. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97(8). I ask from here Minister Vulin who deals with social protection – is it normal for another pregnant woman, that Mrs Tamara Pavlovic from Smederev was fired because she announced to her employer that she was pregnant. In such a situation, Serbia is currently in place. The Democratic Party proposes three concrete amendments to the Social Protection Act. The first is that all students whose parents do not work are provided free lunches, that all students whose parents do not work provide free transportation from home to school, and that all students whose parents do not work are provided free textbooks. I don't know what's funny about you SNS, but today 50,000 kids who are covered by primary and secondary education are hungry every day. I understand it's funny to you, because with the help of criminals, Zvonko Veseninović and others, you filled your pockets while our children starve. It's not Serbia he wants and what the DS stands for. Unfortunately, we have an example of a boy from Moll who took his own life because he had no financial resources to attend high school in Vienna. Before that, the same student left the third grade of high school in Vienna because he had no money to transport from home to school. When we talk about the Social Protection Act, is it social equality to have 50,000 children hungry every day, while Secretary of State Nenad Mijailovic of the Ministry of Finance buys a 400,000-euro villa? Is that the policy SNS stands for? The Democratic Party will never agree and never agree to such inequality. In 2015, the total share of children in Serbia's total population was only 17.3% and therefore the DS proposed that the state finance free out-of-body fertilisation for all married couples who cannot become parents. Serbia, ruled by the SNS, is a leader, but unfortunately is a leader at the risk of poverty. We're the first in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16205	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Information and Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16206	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, very briefly. The situation in the media is disastrously ruled from 2012 to 2017. It's not the press' fault, it's not the people who do their job with honor and integrity, it's the SNS' fault. You and Kim Jong Un would envy the dictatorship you conduct in the media. The frantic data is that 92% of the advertising space in the election campaign for the president of Serbia in 2017 belonged to the ruling coalition candidate. This is unacceptable in Serbia in 2017. The DS does not have to propose amendments to the Public Information Act. A concrete proposal is that all parliamentary groups give one MP and that the area is finally settled. Journalists are in an increasingly difficult material situation, the newsrooms are in a growing financial problem, the SNS is putting more and more pressure on people who are honest and honest about their work. It's time to get in the way of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16207	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Radoslav Milojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Police Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16208	Thank you. Serbia is a country where both the military and the police strike for the first time in history. Serbia is a country where the first strike by those who risk their lives provide us and our country. The Democratic Party is proposing amendments to the Law on Police because the life of every Serbian resident and all Serbian citizens comes first. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the proposed and amended amendments to the Law on Police are necessary, given the state of the MUP members. The situation is so bad that the SNS paid the first MEPs a 10% reduction, a reduction in wages, and then the SNS also honoured members of the MUP and a reduction in the daily living. A journal for those who risk their lives provide all of us and our country is worth 150 dinars. For 150 dinars, one cop can buy an empty muffin and yogurt. I know it's funny for you SNS, but is it funny to a member who's been providing us all day and doesn't have his kids to give for lunch, who can't buy a muffin and yogurt for his living room? This is very funny to you from SNS because you have filled your pockets with corruption contracts, while honest police officers, honest soldiers, honest workers in Serbia are barely making ends meet. Two key points are in the amendments to the Police Act. The first is that the ministry must determine the needs of the system and how many students who finish the police academy can be admitted to the MUP and start a working relationship. We need to have compatibility between the number of students who finishes the police academy and the number needed to get into the MUP. We need to get these children, educated, professional, educated, into the MUP system, so that they don't run some Dijana Hrkalovic there and we don't want the police to question what Minister Loncar is doing with the murderers of Zoran Djindjic. Since you were showing some pictures earlier, here's a question for us to ask what the government minister is doing with Zoran Djindjic's murderers. The second provision is for the provision of Article 172(2). The law on police destroys the presumption of innocence and we suggest that Article 172 point 2 be deleted. The law on the police, because any member of the police can get any criminal charges even from some Mr. Martinovic and is automatically away from work, which is consistent with our Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16209	Thank you very much. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the law on corporate tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16210	Thank you, Chairman. This is a law that I have already proposed several times, which refers to the creation of better conditions for the business of our businesses, entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises operating in Serbia. Unfortunately, here's a long series of sessions, almost a year, as far as I'm proposing, MPs of the ruling majority do not want to put this on the agenda, and it concerns two fundamental changes. It is one thing to free the pay of taxes on the profits of our entrepreneurs who employ people indefinitely for at least two years and to free newly developed areas of the Republic of Serbia from newly established companies for three years of paying taxes on profits. So, all you've been saying so far, as a government, is that you're going to help Serbian entrepreneurs, you disrespected. In 2016 you declared that year as a year of entrepreneurship, that you will abolish more than 40 legal regulations and regulations to facilitate the business of small businesses operating in Serbia, but unfortunately this has not happened, continued to support those foreign investors with whom you take pictures, giving them from an empty budget tens of thousands of euros per employee and representing it as I don't know what successes for workers in the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia and boasting that someone will work for a salary of 200 euros or just over 200 euros. So Serbia is slowly becoming a slave society and that is because you do not want to help our small businesses and entrepreneurs who are supposed to be the bearer of business activities in the state of Serbia, which is much more necessary to fill the 30% budget as they do today. So, what is the situation in Serbia's economy, the best talks about it is the level of average earnings in Serbia. All of us already know that the average earnings in Serbia are at least in the region, that we can only compare ourselves with Macedonia, that they are above us and Montenegro and Bosnia, that we are not talking about Slovenia and Croatia, but the devastating fact is that some economists these days could hear that the average net wages in Serbia are far away, far from the republic in African countries. Here, for example, are fewer average salaries in Serbia than in Angola, Libya, Zambia, Congo, Swaziland, Gibuti, Côte d'Ivoire, Tanzania and other African countries. So that's the result of your work for five years, that's the result of your policy. Therefore, I ask you to stop by listening to those who may know a little more than you, although they are the opposition, and to put some laws on the agenda to start economic activity in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16211	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on additions to the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16212	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, we have proposed that registered offenders in the family be deprived of legally acquired weapons the moment they register as thugs at the police station. As you know, this proposal was proposed by Dragan Sutanovac in the last meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and for a wonderful miracle he never received support to find himself on the agenda, although we were talking about giving up any credit and we offered a real solution to you that you as the ruling majority would bring one useful thing to the family to take away legally acquired weapons because it happened when they registered at a police station they let themselves go, return to their home, return to some celebration, take their weapons that were legally acquired and then happen to kill half the family, kill half of some weddings, it happened in Serbia in the past few years. What's important is that we could save dozens and dozens of women who, first and foremost, were victims of this type of violence without talking about families, not talking about friends, of neighbors that we could have saved, only that we had adopted this bill. There's no politics here. Whoever registers as a bully, a police officer asks him for legal weapons, and he immediately takes it away from him. It is one measure whose adoption in every way protects tomorrow or reduces the risk of someone committing a crime by using that weapon on his wife, on his neighbour, on his family, as it has been in Serbia lately, and you can read that, of course, in the daily press. I think that this bill of law, past any policy, is important that as a society, we react to a growing increase in domestic violence, and that through these things, we prevent someone who has legal weapons from using it in the moments of their madness and we can save someone's life. That's why I'm asking you to put this on the agenda together. We give up the debate, we won't discuss this law, just to put it on the agenda and adopt it, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16213	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - draft law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16214	Thank you, Chairman. This is another draft law I have been proposing for over a year, and regardless of what it's about, the mere harmonisation of two laws, the law in the student and student standards and the Law on Local Self-Government, and because it affects the ability to scholarship the best students and students, and regardless of what I'm sure, that most MPs of the ruling regime would support putting this law on the agenda, you don't do it because you don't hear the bells. So you didn't get the command to vote for something that's of interest to people in Serbia, students, students, their parents, and in the interest of you as political organisations, because in most local self-government you're holding power today. I don't understand why, actually, but it's probably a new way and a new democracy that you're introducing here into this home. As for the law itself and the conditions in which both parents and their children live today, I don't think you see it, because you are blinded by your haughtiness, you are blinded by a constant campaign, and by a constant desire for domination, by manipulation, by the use of your media, by government media, which have one single task, which is actually to conceal the truth, to cover up facts and conditions both in the society of the Republic of Serbia and in the economy of the Republic of Serbia and in the houses and pockets of our citizens. But the truth will come out, and you won't be able to hide forever, so what I'm talking about now will be one day a topic. I think you'll be ashamed then, and you'll be ashamed that you haven't put these laws in order. Young people leave Serbia, and more than half of the young polled people today want to build their future in another country. If this trend continues and you are deaf to such proposals, we can expect, according to the statistics department, that already in 2041, we will have all people in Serbia who will be over 65 years old, therefore, pensioners. So if you're not creating jobs, if you're not helping young people to better finance their education, their parents, so how do you think they're going to stay here in this country? We should not be surprised that every year tens of thousands of young and working people leave Serbia, last year over 60 thousand, 2015, 58 thousand etc. It is a trend that will continue if you continue to continue with this policy so you don't simply see what's going on in the country, because simply you don't run the country, you've been constantly and permanently engaged in the campaign for five years. I wish we had some results from this campaign in our lives, but unfortunately, we don't have any politicians, but neither any other citizen of Serbia nor students, nor anyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16215	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the establishment of public interest and specific procedures for expropriation, the issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water".
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16216	Thank you, President of the Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what we've been saying since the beginning is that there's no public interest here, that someone's private bar can't be of public interest, that someone's private hotel can't be of public interest and that someone's dwellings of 3.5 thousand euros per square can't be of public interest. What is essential is that a joint venture formed on the basis of Serbia investing several billion euros indirectly or directly, and on the other hand a strategic partner for the construction of the "Beograda on Water", only 150 million joint loans, guaranteed by Serbia's citizens of course. What is Serbia's ownership stake in this joint venture is 32% with billions of euros, and with only a few-tenths of millions of euros, the strategic partner has 68% stake in the joint venture. This is called treason, this is called insulting citizens' intelligence and common sense, because this is how you try to rob Serbian citizens and rob Serbia's resources. That's what our grudge was from the very beginning. There is no "Belgrade on Water" built there, there are apartments of tycoons that will buy them for three and a half thousand euros per square. Who today in Serbia has the money to buy an apartment of 200 squares with one square of three and a half thousand euros per square. So, I want to tell you that the whole thing has been done to make those who are privileged in this country richer, so that they can have some of their own cafes, some of their shopping malls, and on the other hand, they all guarantee it with their money to the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade. You never had the courage, and we invited you to call a referendum, what citizens in the Sava amphitheater area or Belgrade at all think of "Belgrade on Water". Whether it changes Belgrade's appearance and spirit and whether it is acceptable for citizens in any way, but in the end, you didn't care. Over 100,000 euros per job we gave it this way. There are only a few workers on the site and hundreds of millions of euros invested. We'll never retreat, of course, and we'll always stop. The Belgrade elections go, in Belgrade's elections we will show that citizens will not do this kind of robbery, corruption contracts and projects that only apply to the SNS summit. We'll be against it, and we'll break these contracts.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16217	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against. I understand, no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments and the addition of the Law on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16218	Thank you, President. In fact, this law is also very important for the functioning of the state at all its levels and the law concerns establishing local communities throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and among other things in units of local self-government in the territories of cities and municipalities. So that's very important for a few reasons. If we really want to manage the country, if we want to solve our citizens' problems, we must also decentralised Serbia. Serbia today belongs to a highly centralised state and, of course, the biggest damage to its citizens because we have today one supreme chief who is also presidents who is also prime minister and who is minister of all ministries and here, I would call on him not to forget that there is competition and for the managers of residential buildings, to apply there, to be a professional manager in his building because he already has all the functions. But that says that one man who wonders cannot solve the problems of Serbian citizens. These problems must be solved at levels where they arise. In fact, in units of local self-government, even regions should be given greater authority, greater jurisdiction, and, of course, to local communities where citizens know best what it is they are facing. You're obviously not interested in this law. After who knows how many times I've proposed you don't want to discuss it, even though today you have in most cases people who run cities and municipalities from the ruling regime. Decentralisation is something that is the insatiable need of Serbian society at this time so that we can function as a state and that we can introduce a system. That doesn't fit today for you who are in power. You're comfortable with this condition. It suits you that one man is cheerful and dressing, that you are all hiding behind his poster when you go to the polls, and therefore you are unable to put on the agenda a proposal to amend the electoral law even though in the previous session you formed a commission whose head was, if I am not mistaken, Mr Babic with the idea of a proposal for a new electoral law. But this new electoral law would probably mean a reduction in your political power that does not suit you, but would therefore certainly come to the benefit of the state and its citizens, given that you are not interested in the state and citizens, you are more interested in your function, your chair, than in how it will live in Serbia, and in which direction Serbia will develop as a state. I call on you to make a precedent once in a while, to put some of the strong laws proposed by the opposition parties on the agenda, so that we can discuss those things that concern the lives of citizens, not just your political functions, your chair, and your political powers.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16219	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I'm closing the vote - no one, the abstentioned one, is in favour of - 10. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16220	Thank you. So, ladies and gentlemen, according to Article 84. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 1, all have the same legal position on the market. It is forbidden, of course, to act which restricts competition against the law by creating or abusing a monopoly or dominant position. So this agreement puts one privileged few foreign citizens in a privileged position compared to all domestic businessmen, on local citizens in Serbia in a privileged position. The essence of this law is that it preceded the contract, i.e. "lex specialis" and the contract at the end of this "Belgrade on Water" and we want a state that works for everyone in this country, for all its citizens, for all of our citizens. We don't want a country that works for a privileged few who get rich, which is only at the top of a party in Serbia. So we want a state that will have the same arches for every businessman, for every citizen, not a state that only takes care of a privileged few at the top of the SNS. What was given to their partners, their friends who came from the UAE, that no country that holds onto itself would do. This means that their investments are being paid by us, and that they are making money, so aren't they poor enough citizens of Serbia, that you're still bringing people on the side that are going to make money on our poverty and on our misfortune. And that's why this agreement between Serbia and the UAE is such that it exclusively gives the opportunity to earn money to those who are represented as friends of the prime minister, friends of ministers from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and does not give the possibility of the same equal that the Constitution guarantees by the condition of Serbia that you do not respect domestic businessmen. Why shouldn't the domestics of Serbia have the same option as some of your friends in the UAE, and that's why it's so important that we put this law out of force and we cancel and then abolish "lex specialis" and then cancel the Treaty on "Belgrade on Water", because these are projects that exist exclusively for a few to earn, and that all of these are citizens with their reduced salaries and pensions. So that's enough and it has to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16221	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I'm closing the vote - for -13, against - no one with abstentions is there. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the facts on the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in the lawless destruction of buildings in Belgrade's "Savamal" district and to determine the facts on the responsibility of the person who destroyed those facilities. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16222	Thank you. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished citizens, my colleague Marko Djurisic and I proposed immediately after the previous parliamentary elections, the Survey Committee because a criminal act organised by RIK on the night of the vote, involving many ministers from the Government of Serbia, many of them from the top of the city government, of course the Prime Minister of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic, who, or ordered the destruction of the facilities in "Savala" or failed to commit a crime, or to cover up the crime. When then, gentlemen, you'll be responsible for what you've done. The fact that you think you're above the law, that you're above the Constitution, will never make you feel guilty. I know with this current majority that you've acquired in one suspicious way in the past election, I know you're not even touched by this right now, but these are changing times. Times change in the region, they change in Europe, they will change in Serbia as well. The moment that times change in Serbia, nothing will be as funny as you now find funny, many of you will make statements to the judicial authorities about what you've done, from the fact that even some people from the crime scene have participated under phantoms in human attachments, in kidnapping some, in the destruction of private property, and it all ended, of course, with the tragic death of one of the guards who experienced enormous stress during that act. I think that in front of the citizens of Serbia, but most importantly, before the laws of this country, you will be responsible for these crimes, and no one on this side will ever come into any political constitution with you, any political agreement, because you are people who violate fundamental human rights, all members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and that is why in any recent future you are not well written. It's not just political responsibility, it's a criminal responsibility. You can laugh, Mr. Martinovic, but that's what your bosses expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16223	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I'm closing the vote - for -13, against -one, with abstention - no. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be completed with the dots – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16224	Thank you. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is also another shame that happened, not only in our country, and the Constitutional Court alone in Serbia has not responded to such disgrace. When pensions were reduced in some European countries and pensions were reduced in some countries in the region, many governments also resorted to such populist steps, because they also did not know how to reduce the deficit or how to fill a hole in the budget. They tried to establish some financial consolidation this way. What is important, however, is that all constitutional courts in the region and in Europe have made unique decisions that pensions have acquired property and acquired rights and that you cannot reduce anyone's acquired right, because workers have worked fairly their entire lives, paid taxes and contributions and thus obtained the right to receive their pension. Retirement can only increase, but it can never be reduced. So, on the other hand, you spend money on some of your private television SNS officials, you spend money on some UAE partners, hundreds of millions of euros, and these 50 or 100 million you saved, kidnapping someone's private property, so you've trampled out every morale and every hope that they'll ever live better in this country. In 2000, just to remind you that we were returning pensions, or parties to the Democratic Opposition of Serbia, which then came to power, were also returning pensions that you and the SPS remained in debt to the citizens. These pensions will come back with all the differences you've reduced, but the question is whether any of our fellow citizens will experience it. That is why it is important for this power to be replaced as soon as possible, in order to get your pensions back as soon as possible and to return the difference that you took from people in your pockets, to fill, above all, the pockets of your tycoons, your friends abroad, who are building their money, Serbian pensioners are building themselves shopping malls, cafes and hotels. It is the shame of this government of Serbia, and of course the Constitutional Court, which pretends to be dead to such a scandalous decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because it must not, apparently under the pressure of the government and the executive authorities to rule that this matter is not constitutional, above all, and that this matter is not legally possible. For that reason, I believe that some future generations, also with this debt, will cost extra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16225	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggests that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16226	This law is more popularly called the Law on the Employment of Young People. So last year, 60,000 citizens left Serbia. According to OECD estimates this year, 80,000 per cent. If the pace is increased this way, year after year, we will be left with almost a million inhabitants in ten years. What is urgent for all of us is to pass a law that would keep young people with their knowledge and their energy in Serbia, not in another country. It is very important that those who have graduated from high school, those who have completed a trade, those who have graduated from colleges, those who have mastered or doctored, use their knowledge and their energy in this country without doing so in another country in the EU or somewhere else in the West. That is why we have proposed a law on employment, where in this way one degree of contribution that is least for the youngest, and then increases with years of life, we would make those youngest people who in time finish high school and colleges more competitive in the labour market. This is a proposal that costs 50m euros. I think after all the expenses you pay to your partners and to your fake investors, this is the minimum we can do for this country's youth. This is a proposal supported by employers, and it is easier for them to make it easier for those who are informally employed when they have to draw cash on black and to make it much easier for them to be cheaper for the employer, to pay taxes and contribute to them and then to transfer the young from the informally employed sector to the formal employees. That way they can have insurance, they can have social, health, they can raise loans, they can do something about their work. This way we treat them like slaves and second-class citizens and then they commit to escape from this country. Maybe it's in someone's interest in politics, that young people aren't here, that they can't complain, that they can't protest, but what's important is that there won't be any Serbia. In order for our country to be, and for Serbia to have a future, this young world must remain here. Let us bring one measure, which may waver and give them the opportunity to work in Serbia. Because if we don't do anything for them, then they don't owe us any loyalty to stay in this country. I think this is a very important issue that raises a hundred other questions, but it is the first step towards a solution that is the biggest problem in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16227	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16228	This is one of the laws that I propose several times and concerns the creation of conditions for the use of resources that we have in agriculture and the provision of aid to agricultural producers, in order to be competitive on the world and European market. Unfortunately, what this government has done in the past five years, or rather several governments of this regime have been continuously reducing the yield in the area of agricultural production and farmers themselves, thus reducing the premiums, thus reducing and giving for plant production and production per hectare, and that is the result that you have achieved, but you did not say so five years ago. Five years ago, I'll remind you, when you came to power in 2012, in your white book, agriculture took one of the central places, that every year, you'll start to increase the agrarian budget by one percent, which means that today it should be 10%, and it's below five today. You are also in violation of the Budget Act today, because you have an exemption for agriculture below 5%. Also, you said that economics is a strategic branch, that you would help farmers. None of this has happened, except for the abundance of lies, the abundance of empty promises, and of course, always the awakening of the new hope that the next day, in a year, two or three will be better and that we will sometimes be better and that we, or our farmers, will also sit on the green branch. In parallel with that, you promised wonders. On the other hand, Prime Minister Vukic promised miracles to the Arabs whom you gave ten and a half thousand of the most fertile orans in Vojvodina, that they would accomplish some production that would be five times larger than our paori do. It turns out, after only a few years, that she's five times smaller than our couples make a contribution today in Vojvodina. Also, you gave it to some company that's phantom, like the Phantom Tanjug, as we have the phantoms of Savamal and the phantoms will mark your rule. Now we do not know who manages it, and who manages it, except what our couples testify there that Andrej Vukic is regular and that he is learning agriculture and is obviously not doing very well, because the offerings are very small on those hurricanes that you gave away from those tens and a half thousand acres, you gave even three and a half thousand acres in Morovic, or Karadjordev, so that and how should be the subject of future analysis of the investigation, who did it, whose account and what did our farmers get from it? I propose this law to raise up is incentives for farmers, to help people, and we have a million and 500 thousand of them living today from agriculture and working in agriculture on their holdings of 638 thousand registered agricultural holdings that we have in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16229	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16230	Thank you. When it comes to the employment of young people, the biggest problem young people face today is when they graduate from college or high school, the employer tells them that they cannot be admitted, as talking for a job is necessary to have some work experience. This is a proposal to introduce mandatory practices in high schools and colleges and higher, of course, schools, so that it would be three months for high schools, so that there would be no abuse and six months for those who study. In this way they would have had some working experience and would again, arguing more competitively, even compared to their peers in the region. For this work, of three or six months, they would have allowance in the form of a warm meal, in terms of transport costs, and in the same amount both of the employer and of the state. So it wouldn't be as big and not as insignificant money for them and it would further stimulate them, that in one responsible and serious way this practice as serious and interested citizens, really something in that practice and learn, acquire some experience, acquire some knowledge and really become more vital in the labour market than our young people are today. I believe that this amendment and the addition of the Labour Act is necessary in order to enable yet another incentive for these young people and to be conveyed to them a message that the state really thinks of them and that they are really important to us. You have people today who win international competitions, you have young people who are getting better from year to year, especially in science debates, in science Olympics. The mathematical high school was celebrated for the year-to-year medals arriving at our address. The point is -- let's go out and meet them a little bit, and not just when you try to give them some stimulation by inviting them to come to the balcony of the City Assembly, and then cancel them at the last minute because, well, they're not so popular amongst citizens, so the mayor won't take pictures with them, etc. Let's at least show them this way that we really care about them as a society. Let us show them that they are important to us and that in every way possible this society takes care of its own, first of all, of the future, so that tomorrow we will not be a society of old, wet, wet, wet, but indeed this society is a vise, young and smart people and that we are developing in accordance with those countries that today have the highest levels of development in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16231	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. Here's a word from MP Radoslav Milojic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16232	Based on article 88, I'd like you to determine the quorum, but before that, I'm asking the service to take the cards out of the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16233	That's right. Please get your cards out of the system. Not the messengers present, but the ones who are not here. Please insert your identification cards to determine the quorum. MP, insert the card, don't play. It's not funny at all. I'm shocked that you find it strange. How do I communicate with you? On whose request did I ask? There's a quorum, but I won't release the result until you insert the card.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16234	Please, I was there when I advertised the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16235	You can ask me all you want. Follow the rules, otherwise it doesn't apply what you're looking for. So either you are or you're not here, don't play fun. Ambassador, you're not here, I have no basis for asking to determine the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16236	How did you give me your word then?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16237	Don't play games. We're not small. You are an invisible messenger to me, who is not in the hall and does not participate in the work of this session. You were in that second and then you got out of the O.R. Don't play with the rules. Are you in the O.R. or aren't you in the O.R.? I cannot determine whether there is or no quorum, since there is no MP who has requested it. Don't be silly. Thank you for the applause, but it's like from the hallway to be heard, from the MPs' club, from the restaurant. Are you there or aren't you there? So the MP's not here. I apologize to the MPs. I can't communicate like this, this is a mockery of rules and parliament, making fun of parliament. So you're having trouble putting in a card. You've done a lot of damage to someone other than yourself. There were 132 MPs, not to be left unsaid.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16238	Well done.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16239	National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16240	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members, I will join my fellow MPs who at the beginning of each regular session over 50 draft laws are trying to put on the agenda, but, unfortunately, since they are coming from the opposition MPs, none of these draft laws can be found on the agenda, that MPs can propose the laws they are discussing, we saw it at the last session, but apparently it is the right only those MPs of the ruling majority can use. The income tax is a change that we propose, which should allow for the reduction of the burden on the economy and those who create additional value with their work and which, through this work, primarily fills the republican budget. The story that something should be done to reduce the burdens that citizens, i.e. businesses, pay when they pay their salaries, has been said continuously for years back. Unfortunately, in these five years this government has not taken a single step towards that discharge. Here we now again have the announcements of optimism from the outgoing prime minister, that there is room for the income tax to be reduced one, two, three or four percent, but that we have to get the IMF's consent to a more sustainable position as finance minister, the current one, we do not know whether it will be future, whether it will be on that or another function, which is the reduction, which has been announced by the end of this year, under the question, but I believe that for the ruling majority here is still the most important thing that Alexander Vukic says and I call for us to vote on the amendment and supplementing this law, all together. The proposal consists of reducing the income tax rate of citizens from ten to nine. We think it's a small step, but a step in one direction that shows the government's intention to continue the major reforms it's been carrying out for five years, do something for the benefit of the citizens, which is to reduce the tax, to create, it's about five billion dinars of more money in the economy, to give these money to the businessmen, whether they will make a minimum increase in wages, whether they will invest something, whether they will start to develop their business, that's on them, but they will have one fresh capital that will allow them to develop further.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16241	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for six, against them, no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16242	Thank you. These are two related laws, and if they were to come to the agenda, by adopting them and by putting them on the agenda, they would be fulfilled in the right sense by that provision of the Rules of Procedure which states that laws can be held in a joint investigation because solutions are interrelated and dependent. To be able to get those five billion dinars without the influence on the republican budget, how much would be a cut in the budget if the law and a solution to the Law on the income tax were adopted, so that that money would not be a shortfall in the budget, we propose these amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government, which predict that part of the money from this income tax on citizens who remain local self-governments will be returned to the level before the cuts made in October of last year. At that time, we heard from the minister and other representatives of the government that local self-governments had been looking forward to this proposal and that they had no problem with the fact that in 2017 and the following years they would have reduced revenues in total by five billion dinars and more. Since local self-government has already accepted this reduction and are ready to fulfill their function under the Constitution and the law, then we believe that money instead of the way it went, let me say, without a specific plan in the budget, is directed towards discharging the economy. So, the idea is to change and supplement these two laws first reduce the rate of income tax for citizens, and to return to the local self-government, in order not to be damaged again, the percentage that remains for them to the percentage that was before the October changes were adopted last year. We think this kind of proposal is neutral as far as the local self-government budget is concerned, that there's only a five-billion-dollar reduction in the Republic budget, but here, we hear that this year, instead of the planned deficit, we have an unplanned surplus. If that's true, that's another reason more to adopt this solution and make it easier for the economy to actually develop economic activities, but also for this famous growth of the gross social product that this government is trying to present to false numbers.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16243	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16244	Thank you. Contrary to the promises of the parties that are in power today, which were given five years ago, that they would lift the TV subscription, it was returned to Serbia's legal system after, we first waited two and a half years for the subscription to be abolished, and then the TV tax was reintroduced by another law. This time it is introduced in a way that you can practically not pay for it and that you can practically not get rid of paying for this subscription. The legal solution adopted by this ruling majority in 2014 is now such that the subscription is re-paid, i.e. the TV fee is re-paid, as well as the subscription, with an electricity bill, but now in a way that you can't get rid of it. Now citizens who have more than one household on their behalf pay that subscription more than once. If someone has a number on the garage, on an auxiliary facility within a single household, they have to pay that TV fee to each of those numbers. Maybe the only good fact for citizens is that this TV tax is 150 dinars. But she won't be 150 dinars forever. It can be by law up to 500 dinars, by the law we passed at the end of last year there won't be this and next year so much, but no one can practically be released who has more numbers in their name. The essence of our change is very simple, that it is clearly stated in the law that one citizen can only pay this fee once, to one count, that for all those other numbers that are taken to the same citizen, that this tax is not paid, because this citizen and cannot be in more places at once and if he pays a TV fee for the work of public service because he uses it, and unfortunately, it is a special story, a large number of citizens and does not use public service because there is nothing on him to see except the prime minister and the government in a senseless boasting from morning to night, every citizen has to pay that tax, but can consume the right that he gets by paying this fee only in one place in time and space, because so say the laws of physics, in so far as there is no initiative in Parliament to change the basic laws of physics, as I can see, as it is proposed, an initiative to change or to change some other basic laws. So I call on you once again to correct the injustice and adopt a legal solution that only once can a public service fee be paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16245	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16246	Thank you. For a year and a half of the SDS and NPS parliamentary group, as well as colleagues from the DS and colleagues from the Dveri parliamentary group, we have been trying to put on the agenda a bill on the termination of the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way pensions are paid. Obviously, there is no majority for this, although the results of the adoption of the Law on the temporary regulation of how pensions were paid and when the Government came with this proposal and said what it expects from the application of this law, what results, according to the stories of these same people, are more or less unchanged, these objectives have already been achieved, but the intention to put this law out of force is obviously not. It is obvious that it was a big con when this law was called the Law on the Temporary Regulation of the Way of Pensions, and that the word "temporary" was just a colorful lie and something that was to be used by the Constitutional Court of Serbia not to be determined by this law, believing that it was a temporary law there was no need for the Constitutional Court to react. However, what is true is that the deadline of three years, which stood in the draft of the law, was amended, or deleted when the law was adopted and it was adopted without a period of time, and now we see that the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is that it should temporarily last. It is obvious that the government's intention to continue the economic destruction of over 650,000 pensioners who fell under the influence of this law. The government made a bill, and the SNS, that it's obviously less damage to hit the pocket of these 650 thousand, and then by media defamation, the senseless propaganda of the other million and 50,000 pensioners who didn't come under the influence of this law, to convince them that they're better off than ever and that pensions are bigger than ever. The fact is that these pensions have increased twice in the last two years by 0.75% and 1.5%, compared to inflation in Serbia, that this April inflation came to an annual level of 4% and that no increase, so that at the end of the year and 5%, will return the pensions of all pensioners to the real level before the reduction, and those to whom it has been reduced will obviously never be returned.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16247	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by points – draft law on the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16248	Thank you. And this session shows, as well as everyone held in this year and over 80% of the laws of last year and previous years, the need to pass this law. Today, on the draft agenda, we have four laws that have come to the Serbian Assembly by emergency procedure, as the only law in the last session was by emergency procedure and all other laws adopted this year. The essence of this law is to put an end to this practice, that it cannot be one sentence that it is necessary to pass the law by an urgent procedure in order to prevent adverse consequences, and without indicating the adverse consequences, to prevent such a law from coming to the Assembly by an urgent procedure without a public debate, to be adopted by an emergency procedure, so that MPs do not have enough time to prepare for the discussion, that they do not have enough time to intervene in quality with amendments to these laws and that, after all, citizens do not have enough time to get to know the legal solutions, because each of these laws stands, in place of the prescribed Constitution eight days from the day of entry into force, that day will be the next day after adoption. It's the manner of this government and this government. It has been going on for five years and every year this statistics is getting worse and worse, and it is obvious that this year will also make a new record per cent of the number of laws the Assembly adopts by emergency procedure. I have no doubt that this ruling majority of this bill will never accept to put it on the agenda, let alone adopt it, but it is my obligation to present to the citizens through these three minutes that there is another policy, that there is a different way of seeing Parliament's work, that there is a way that respects the role of parliament which is not here where laws only need to run, that parliament must discuss well every law, that MPs have enough time to prepare themselves for that discussion, and especially to follow that law afterwards. What is missing most in this House is this control role. We do not discuss here any report that comes from independent bodies, the committees do not meet because there are usually no three-month work reports, and all of these are indications that one authoritative authority is being enthroned in Serbia, and we see this in the last month and a half when we have two of the most important functions in one man.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16249	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the law on value added tax.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16250	Thank you. This law for more than a year and a half is in the assembly procedure and our intention was to adopt this tax rate, which burdens baby food with a general tax rate of 20% tax at a special tax rate of 10%. When we had the opportunity to make amendments to the government's draft laws amending the VAT law, we spoke of something on this subject and eventually got a response from the minister, there was no opposition. There was one skeptic that this measure would not lead to a reduction in the price of baby food because, I guess, traders are irresponsible and would not reduce the price of products for this value added tax reduction, and it would be very difficult to prevent abuses. Of course, we believe that this is not full of truth and that unfortunately, the tragic relationship that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has with the future of Serbia and the fact that in Serbia, for years, the rate of growth is negative and that the rate from year to year is increasing. Obviously, if the government had no intention of changing something and doing something according to this plan, because if there were, it would have done something, would it have been the adoption of a solution similar to this, would it have been the final adoption of a law on financial support for the family with children, and I'll talk about it later, would that have been another measure. None of this is the measure of this government's intention. It comes with half solutions, so last year a solution was made to abolish the VAT return that was then postponed until the new law on financial support for the family with children, announced for the first half of this year. That half slowly stands out, the law is gone, and it's obvious there won't be one. It is obvious that the people most responsible in the government for this question think that time has or are dealing with something else, their chairs and places where they are located are more important than the problem we have and that there will be no solution. I urge you to put this law on the agenda, to adopt it and send a message to the government that we think differently from them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16251	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law supplementing the Excise Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16252	This is one part of the law, which we propose, which is directly related to concerns about the future generations of Serbia. This bill provides for the adoption of a excise on artificially sugared, sweetened drinks, as one measure that the World Health Organization, which has declared an epidemic of obesity in the world, has proposed to governments around the world, as one measure in the fight against this phenomenon. Unfortunately, our government doesn't think it's obvious that it's doing anything according to that plan. Although it was done by the governments of Hungary, Norway, Mexico, Ireland, the United States and many other countries, Slovenia, the government has no intention at all and is not determined according to this initiative. On the contrary, the government goes and apparently gets support from those who are the biggest producers of these drinks and apparently there meets their desire to have these measures that, I say, exist in most countries, they are thus trying to deter the government from joining this action. Why is she important? The figures in Serbia are devastating. Although in the world obesity has increased from 2.6% to 4.9%, these figures in Serbia say obesity has increased five times and somewhere it says that each fourth, somewhere that every fifth, somewhere that every third child today is overweight. The main reason is poor nutrition and excessive consumption of artificially sweetened drinks. What is our idea is that this law introduces a five dinar excise charge per litre of sweetened drinks and creates one fund of five billion dinars that should enable children to form and implement a program that will, above all, enable them to learn about the importance of a healthy diet, which will provide more physical activity, which will ultimately provide them with a healthy meal a day. We think this is the right answer that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has on this phenomenon, and we are sorry if we do not get the support of fellow MPs again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16253	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on financial support for the family with children.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16254	Thank you. I talked a little bit about the need to pass this law that hasn't been amended since 2011, and this government, in its manner, but five years each time, whether after some elections, reconstructions or before elections, announces that this problem and the adoption of changes and additions or new laws will be in its focus. But here, for five years, we haven't welcomed a single proposal related to this area. And again, responsibility has been transferred to some working group, a famous one, which allegedly has been working on a bill, somewhere since September of the month, but no results or suggestions have been made. What, unfortunately, we have the consequences of a carelessness, the consequences where Serbia is today at the top of the risk of poverty, 24.5% of Serbia's population is at risk of poverty. Every third child lives in a family that is threatened by poverty. Only 25% of children today exercise some right in the field of childcare, although in 2000 that percentage was over 50%. The solutions I propose in this law, the government itself did not refuse in response, and it did not comment on them as good or as bad. She called the task force again. The same minister, Mr. Vulin, who has been at the post for three years, has repeatedly promised the results of the task force and the bill, but here I repeat, three years have passed, this legislative proposal is not before us. I invite you fellow MPs to show responsibility for putting this bill on the agenda, then inviting Minister Vulin and other ministers from the government to come here. If these solutions aren't good enough to adopt someone else, but to get them to deal with this problem. If we don't do that, these numbers and these statistics, which I was talking about at the beginning, will only be worse. There's one more piece of information. So in Serbia, the biggest gap between the rich and the poor is the data that is the strongest in our public these days, which is that average earnings in Serbia today are less than in two-thirds of African countries. I believe that this is not a policy that Serbian citizens would choose to have the right to vote in fair and democratic elections, but let's show that we are responsible and do something for the future of our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16255	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The latest proposal by MP Marko Đurisic to complete the session agenda – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances regarding the destruction of buildings in Belgrade, in the part of the town known as Savamal on 25 April 2016.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16256	Unfortunately, this is the last proposal because you have scheduled a session with only half an hour to prepare proposals for the amendment and addition of the agenda, and have not been able to propose the other laws that our parliamentary group proposes at each session. This bill has been in the process for a year, and for that year neither of those questions that we put into the proposal for the establishment of a survey committee has been answered by the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, nor by who is responsible and who has destroyed the facilities in Savamala, or who is responsible and who has carried out the unlawful, illegal, anti-constitutional detention of citizens at that night and the kidnapping of their personal property. Who is responsible for what the police did that night had orders not to respond to citizens' calls and who is responsible for suspending the state of Serbia for several hours? All these questions, unfortunately for the state of Serbia, since they do not get answers, cannot be answered in front of state authorities, we have in the media. In the manner of the Prime Minister, we have, we know, that what has been happening has been responsible for "complete idiots from the top of the city" and these complete idiots all Serbian citizens have been pulling ears for the last year, making fun of them, continuing to perform their functions without responding to what they did on 24 April 2016 and 25 April 2016, respectively. It's a shame that we're turning our heads from that problem in this conference, and we're not asking the state authorities to finally give an answer. It is enjoyed here by the SNS when the court ruled in favour of Minister Stefanovic, who by one week's newspaper, was designated the main fan of the Savala, and then whine when the senior court changes that shameful verdict. All of this, obviously, while this power is in Serbia, will not get an answer, because if the Prime Minister and future Serbian President has not been invited by now to give his statement to the prosecutor, and he said on June 8th that he knows who is responsible from the top of the city government, who are these complete idiots, I don't think we have a legal state and that it was buried and destroyed that night.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16257	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Please determine the quorum. Throw in your cards. The presence of 129. National MP Maja Gojkovic has proposed to conduct a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a law supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act; Proposal for a law supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act; Proposal for a law on granting a guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank KfW, Frankfurt in May, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Electroprivred Serbia", Belgrade (Modernisation of the System for Extremation of Te Nikola Tesla A); Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank KfW, Frankfurt in May, under the responsibility of the Action Society "Electro Networks of Serbia", Belgrade (Regional Programme of Energy Efficiency in the Transit System); Proposal for a Decision amending the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of the International Parliament in Serbia. I don't want to explain the proposal. Here you go, Ambassador Giurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16258	President, I'm surprised that this proposal has arrived on your part which, I believe, you know yourself, contrary to Article 157. The Rules of Procedure of the Assembly. Article 2 of the Rules of Procedure states, if one does not know, that the National Assembly may decide to carry out a joint principle search on several draft laws which are on the agenda of the same session, and that they are conditioned or are related to each other, with the decision on each draft law being made in particular. We had a similar debate at each session, but what we had was a debate whether the bill's proposals could possibly go with the appointments, whether the draft laws had something to do with each other, but never before did we decide on the bill's proposals in the joint debate with proposals for amending the assembly committees and delegations. So that hasn't happened yet. These points were always separate on the agenda, I am talking about points relating to the selection of board members and delegations, and they were passing practically without discussion. I can't understand what haste this now makes you think that once again directly, more directly, if it is possible to build a graduation, you are violating the Rules of Procedure and that Article 157, which says that it is possible only to combine bill proposals, discussion of bill proposals, you combine the proposals of four laws, of which are two amendments and additions, two laws on the granting of guarantees and amendments on the composition of municipal committees and Assembly delegations.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16259	Thank you. I hope there's nothing questionable about the Democratic Party's proposal and you'll get over all these...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16260	Please let us be clear about this...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16261	Sure, we'll get to the point. That's why there's a vote. It doesn't all have to be adopted by an MP. I ask the MPs to declare my proposal to bring together the debate on the proposed agenda points. I'm closing the vote. My proposal was voted - 132, against - no one with abstentions - has. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We will also vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure at the end of the session, so we will see how many votes Mark Djurisic has proposed. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote: for - 130, against -three, with abstentions - no. I find that the National Assembly established the Agenda for the Fourth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017 as a whole. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a 60-minute break. We'll continue work at 15 hours and 5 minutes. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear MPs, we continue our work. I ask the parliamentary groups if they have not done so immediately to file a statement with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Articles 192 and 193. Rules of Procedure, I open a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a law supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, Proposal for a Law supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act; Proposal for a Law on the grant of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank KfW, Frankfurt in May, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise "Electroprivred Serbia", Belgrade (Modernisation of the System for Extremation of Te Nikola Tesla A), Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank KfW, Frankfurt in May, under the responsibility of the Action Society "Electro Networks of Serbia", Belgrade (Regional Programme of Energy Efficiency in the Transition System), Proposal for a Decision amending the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Decision amending the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of Serbia in the International Parliament. Do the authorities in front of the promoter want a word? The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16263	Good afternoon. Let me briefly say some important information on the agenda points, the first four points of the agenda today. I note that afterwards, I will give the word to Minister Antić that he explains the essential part of these two loans to KfW debts where we, from the point of view of the finance minister and from the point of view of the financial effects of these loans, provide guarantees, and the Ministry of Mining and Energy is in the best position to explain the essence of these loans. As for the first item of the agenda and the second item of the agenda, it is the same amendment to the two laws. One is the Law supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, and the other is the Act supplementing the Law on the Deposit Insurance Agency. In both cases, consent shall be sought, i.e. that Parliament may approve a small amendment to the law, which in the first case adds paragraph 4, and in the case of the Deposit Insurance Agency, paragraph 3. In the first case, it is Article 7 and the second is Article 8. What's the point? The change is – in exceptional circumstances significant changes in the international financial market caused by the existence of negative interest rates on deposits in foreign banks, the Agency may, I would like to stress, that the foreign currency under Article 1 of this Article invests in foreign currency securities issued by the Republic of Serbia or the NBS. That's the essence of the proposal. What does that mean? When this law was passed and the loans that the Republic of Serbia owed to fill the funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund on the international financial market were made, we had a positive interest in investing foreign reserves. So the Republic of Serbia is in charge of both the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and in the first case the credits are taken over, and in the second case, the funds reserved for the need were first paid to the NBS account, and in the second case, they are in the reserve account. The funds that have been paid are standardly in international practice combined with foreign reserve funds and managed in the same way as foreign reserve funds. It was all right until negative interest came in the last year, year and a half, and then we have a paradoxical situation that the state of Serbia is paying interest on the loan. The credit was recorded as an increase in Serbia's debt. Since they cannot be spent, fortunately there is no need to spend, because these are the funds that are intervened only in cases where a bank cannot settle its savings obligations, in such a situation, the Deposit Insurance Agency invests funds together with the NBS and has to pay negative interest rates. According to the latest data, the amount is quite significant and will be even higher in the future if we do not legally allow the Deposit Insurance Agency to, with the consent of the NBS and the Ministry of Finance, the Government of the Republic of Serbia in a way that prevents negative interest rates, i.e. the need to finance it additionally from the budget. In addition to some people who vehemently interpret the rules of security of such payments from financial and other risks, I am firmly convinced that in this case there are no such risks since the state of Serbia and on behalf of it, the Ministry of Finance has signed a loan that has already taken over the debt, there is absolutely no additional risk here, the loss of this substance that we have without our error is not really justified and any MP would have the right to ask why we finance something that we already borrowed from the budget. It's the influence of an international environment that's like this. We don't have a strong enough position to negotiate with those banks that are qualified to hold reserves that won't be restricted at positive interest rates and suffer in that environment. Among other things, because there's still no so-called. "investment Grey" means we don't have a rating that allows us to have investment quality. We will have this soon, I hope, but in this situation our answer to such a situation is to allow the Deposit Insurance Agency to, under clear rules that respect the levels of risk and liquidity needs, invest primarily in the short-term charters of the NBS, i.e. in the short-term charters of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This will not violate any of the rules and I think it will allow the Agency to have a positive result on this job. The other two agenda points concern the provision of guarantees to the German Development Bank for two loans to EPS and ESM, i.e. "Electroprivred Serbia" and "Electro Networks of Serbia". These are loans given under very favourable conditions of 0.8%. Conditions are standard for 12 years, with the EPS suggesting it has five years of grace period and seven years of repayment, and the EMS having three years of grace period and nine years of payment, primarily because the periods of use are funds. the construction of buildings that are financed differently and the ESM wants to start paying off as soon as these investments are activated. In the first case, the EPS is about 45m euros, in the second case it is 15m euros. There's a standard 0.75%, so-called. ‘front end fi’ and 0.25% is a fee for the unused funds. In ancient times, it was called intercalary interest. There's no difference between standards. These are very favourable conditions and they are given for projects that have strategic significance. I would stand here and say that the financial conditions are very favourable and that the state of Serbia provides a guarantee here and that the EPS and the ESM are expected to fully finance all the obligations arising from these loans, but since a state guarantee is needed, we give a guarantee. The guarantee is recorded as our debt, but I expect the state will never have a single euro obligation on these loans. As far as the content of these two loans is concerned, one is so-called. It's a seduction, and the second one is the completion of a high voltage grid. I'd like to give Minister Antic a word to inform you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16264	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16265	Madam President, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, colleague Vujovic, who is first and foremost authorised to defend these laws, has presented these financial elements, and I want, above all, out of respect for this high house, to give one of the shortest possible elements related to these two loans. First of all, I want to give you a strong confidence in all of you, including the finance minister who said that, but in a phase that he expects, I fully assure you that this is exclusively about giving two guarantees for two loans that "Electroprivreda Srbija" and "Electro Network of Serbia" will fully settle themselves. At this point, we do not have any credit lines, nor for Elektroprivreda Serbia, nor for the "Electro Networks of Serbia" where the payments of these credit lines are made by the citizens of Serbia, or the budget. No, it's exclusively about loans that "Electropriority of Serbia" and "Electro Network of Serbia" are self-settling. That's the first thing. The second question is, why the state guarantee? So objectively, taking into account the policy of these international financial institutions and the interest rates that are realised in the granting of these loans, we have come to the conclusion that it is far more favourable to take this loan with a state guarantee because interest rates and all other costs of these loans are far lower. Moreover, as an argument why the State guarantee is in the case of this loan for the "Electro Networks of Serbia", you must consider that it was a condition KfW because the loan was followed by a grant of 6,480,000 euros, taking into account that it is a project located on all those common priority lists, both in the "VB6" and in the other mechanisms in which the Republic of Serbia is located. So two key elements. These two loans will be paid back by EPS and ESS, and we give the State guarantee due to the fact that KfW’s policy makes it far more favourable for the loan itself, plus KfW for its credit line, i.e. for the loan. Their loan was followed by an investment grant of 6.5m euros. I would briefly refer to both projects, with a desire that, above all, MPs, and of course the entire audience, fully understand the importance of these two projects. When we talk about "Electroprivred Serbia", the EPS is going through a serious transition process. This transition is conditioned by the fact that, for more than 22 years, no large energy facility has been built in the Republic of Serbia, that our key production facilities are 30 and 40 years old, that they are their future and their work, which is necessary for this country, for our economy, for our citizens, that their future work must be achieved through the process of different modernisations, particularly in the work of adapting to the highest standards and necessary standards in the field of environmental protection. For this very reason, we have to do and do a few years more capital things when it comes to both the Tent and the Bones. First of all, they're electro-filters to remove dusty pollution. I must mention here that in this process we have invested more than 200m euros and that all key, large, capital facilities have new electro-filters and that this pollution has been reduced to that level that prescribes the latest directives, and that at this point we are doing denitrification facilities, denitrification and that this by solving the problem of segregation is this key factor which will enable our blocks to work in the future and, I believe, to the satisfaction of all of us, to produce adequate amounts of electricity. One of the major projects in all of this is the TENT 'A' sequestering system, and we are currently planning to do a fully modern moving system, considering that how it's been working for decades doesn't meet any standards, that at this point we have more than 200 million tons of ash on these dumps, that the blocks, or power plants, generate approximately six million tonnes per year in Obrenovac, and that the issue must be put into some context. We have here given a very clear description of the construction of the collective silos and the entire technology that separates the scum, separates the ash, in which way that ash is collected and how that ash is delayed. The whole process at the "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plant costs about 55m euros. Under the conditions agreed by us, it will be followed by a 45m-euro loan of KfW and 10m euros will be paid by the EPS' own funds. When we talk about "Eelectric Networks of Serbia" and the loan that lies ahead of you today, I would like as a brief introduction to remind you that in this National Assembly we have brought our timely and certain legal frameworks related and necessary for the implementation of the "Transbalkan Corridor" project. The "Transbalkan Corridor" is a significant pan-European project that defines modernisation, primarily at 400 sqth voltage level, building new power transmission capacities. It was designed to transfer energy from far, east of Europe, from Ukraine, Moldova and the region to southwestern Europe. It passes through the Republic of Serbia, enters Serbia, moves Serbia, has two interconnections with Bosnia and Herzegovina-Montenegro and from Montenegro with an underwater cable headed towards the Republic of Italy. We've divided that project into some four stages. At the first stage of the moment, the construction of 400 sq connections between Serbia and Romania is realized through the construction of a power line between Panchev and Spasca. In this second phase, which is today in front of you, you are scheduled to perform works on the construction of 400 squares of power lines between Kragujevac and Kralje, while raising that trafo station in Kralje to 400 sq levels. This project is important for a number of reasons. First, it opens up the possibility for Serbia to become a country through which a greater transit of electricity will be carried out, which is a higher income for our country. The project seriously repairs general tensions in the Republic of Serbia, which will undoubtedly lead to a reduction in losses and transmission, and I believe in electricity distribution. Finally, this whole project will allow for far better development in Serbia of renewables projects, as it will allow them to connect to that transmission network, and thus the possibility that this energy we produce, I believe to a greater extent, for the next few years we will have hundreds of megawatts, primarily from wind energy, but also new facilities to export that energy to Italy and other countries where that electricity is far more expensive than in this part of the market. The whole project is about 29m euros. It has been defined that 15m euros will be loaned by KfW, 6.4 million and 6,460,000 euros respectively will be an investment grant provided by KfW, which is accompanied by all of those activities related to the "VB6 process", with the support of the Energy Community, the European Commission, and the rest of the funds will be financed from the "E Power Network Serbia". I call on MEPs to support these two laws that are in front of you, i.e. these two ratifications, i.e. these two loans, taking into account, I repeat, that the projects that are capitalizing on the energy system of the Republic of Serbia and, finally, taking into account that it is solely about granting guarantees for the loans that our energy companies will repay from their own resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16266	The word is Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16267	The Honorable President, the Honorable Presidency, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is an interesting topic here in Parliament today. It's a good thing you came together, Mr. Vujovic, with the Minister of Energy, to not only be condemned to this "hot rabbit", through which I think you must go through, as a representative of the government who avoids answering a very important question that is a prerequisite for supporting something that is not in itself controversial. Of course, it is good to support these amendments to the law and that it is pointless to pay a negative interest rate somewhere in the EU or in the area of the European Economic Community, the monetary union, because there is a negative interest rate, unlike that of ours, which is still different, among other things, because of the political risk, above all, has fallen economically. But, Mr Vujovicu, your most impressive statement in the past few months is the explanation of this disastrous policy of "Electroprivred Serbia" and the results, I carefully choose the words my opposition colleagues would describe as criminal. They torpedoed the country's economic efforts, I'm sure you know what I'm talking about. There are a lot of comments, but one of them, which I've paid attention to, says we failed to grow gross social product by almost 40% due to the inability of "Electroprivred Serbia" to do the planned part of the job. You have justified this mistake or infirmity of the Elektroprivreda by bad weather conditions. Mr Vujovicu, like me, and I believe many colleagues and colleagues here in the Assembly, you know that it is not true that meteorology has nothing to do with the disastrous result of "Electroprived Serbia". If we are to approve these loans, then let's ask the question of the credibility of your colleague Mr Antic's assurance that EPS and ESM will repay these loans themselves and it has nothing to do with the citizens of Serbia, nor will they bear any consequence of our decision here in parliament. To be clear, I think these are the necessary changes. Now it's not a question of trust in your government, as soon as I read it's a German development bank, I'm willing to accept something like that, because they're serious enough to take care of the way they give their money. The second question is that the Germans have their own development bank, and we have torpedoed our development fund, and we have not introduced anything in its place in the meantime. So why did Elektroprivreda Serbia have such disastrous results? Because of the management, is that right, Mr. Anticu, and not because of the temperature? And you know it very well, Mr. Vujovicu. Then the only question here is, why do you protect those with whom you have nothing in common? We can agree that we disagree politically, but I think that in these complicated circumstances you do your job well, that's what I said during the budget debate. But what about those you protect and why are you protecting something that is indefensible, and these are the results of the "Electroprivreda of Serbia"? How much money did Elektroprivreda spend on electricity imports, and how much was this import greater during this period than the one that was usual? That we're not playing with our E.P.S. knowledge here right now, but you, Mr. Antic, know very well what coal discovery is. You know that someone once thought, so the Institute "Jaroslav Černi" was formed, that new fields were being conquered, that river flows were changing, that we were moving entire settlements so that "Colubara" could normally work with Tent. And then it happened to us -- what? There was a change in government in 2012. I speak to Mark here, and I say to him, Mark, these men have succeeded in the Colubara to be worse than you. Why doesn't the EPS have a technical director? Why is there no longer a technical college in the EPS that takes care of the fact that from 30 million tons of discovered coal we dropped to 20, so we went under two now. It's such a small area that we can't get close to them with that complicated system at the Colubary anymore. Who's responsible for that? Who's responsible for the EPS consultants, aside from what they cost? Who's responsible for that? Have the consultants changed the decades-old rules in the EPS? They did. Did they ask all the facilities to operate in maximum mode? They did. Have they ignored the fact that this coal discovery is being spent as much as possible? Yeah. Did they produce cheap electricity and then run out of coal that we needed, so we imported it together? Yeah. Who's responsible for that? How many people have tightened the belt, Mr Vujovicu, by supporting your measures or by agreeing to them against their will, wages, pensions, no employment? Finally, instead of 1.8% of the projected growth of the gross social product – barely 1%, with the belief that this will change by the end of the year. He won't, and you know it very well. It's very difficult, because it's system questions. They're looking for a system solution. There's no such thing. Who's taking care of the EPS? I don't want to go into political folklore at all, whether someone was holding a grill or not holding a grill. Why is EPS in V.D. A condition? Arteries of our development, corridors, EPS, v.d. status. Choose an EPS Director. Why we don't have it. So now we have to give credit, support the loan, give the state guarantee, right, the interest rate is favourable, KfF is a serious institution, there's no reason to doubt the justification of this investment. But under these circumstances, so wait, let's first clear up with all the problems we've got so we can start creating something. No partying, no LDP and SPS poisoning, Mr Antic, there is only a sustainable system and unsustainable. This one's about to fall apart, and you know it very well. You know that very well. It has nothing to do with people's willingness to do something on the ground that borders on superhuman efforts, like when they're low temperatures and shoot power lines, and then someone goes there, and you're yourself an actor of one of those events. What are we gonna do with this? Who is responsible for the EPS consultants, for the rules they have introduced, for the uncontrolled consumption of coal, for the lack of timely decisions that led us to this? You know better than I do how many reserves of discovery at the moment. It's true, we had a problem in 2014, we all understood that. A higher power, no one can influence it, once in who knows how many years, speak, a thousand years of rain. What now? What bad weather conditions, Mr. Vujovic? There was no winter for four years. Four years of winter gone. We had a little minus in January and nothing more than that. It has nothing to do with this. Anyone who has little touch points with the EPS knows that this is a top-of-the-line ride and insolence towards the whole country, not just to you, but to us. How can we support you, Mr Antic? Here, now we need to make a decision to put the state in charge, to give the guarantee, will bring back the EPS. Will those people do that? They're incapable of doing anything. The EPS position is catastrophic. It's been going on for five years. All right, there was one director, this director went, someone else came to his place. Where are the results? Yeah, it's good to take money from an EPS account when something's earned, and that's what happened. Public enterprises have started to invest in the budget of the state that owns them. That's right. But that's why there's no funds left for investment, for development. This is, among other things, the problem facing our energy system today. Fortunately, "The Boner" works well, thanks to the repairs of another time and what has been done in the meantime. But we didn't question something that is the artery of our development, which is the entire energy system. We've got a criminal result of the electrics, not the minus, not the snow, not the flood. That's what we need to talk about. Sooner or later, we'll face it. In 2000, we did not choose who would lead the "Electroprivreda of Serbia" and be the director of the TENT or "Colubare". And today, I am paying the price for the decision to support then Boška Buha, who was a member of the SPS and director from Obilić, brought to the TENT in Obrenovac in 2000. That's how it's supposed to be forever in this country. But let's see who's responsible for this. I'll back your deal with KfV, that's a good deal, with a serious institution, but what are we gonna do with these people? They're not capable of doing anything right. They have to answer for this, to be replaced, I don't mean criminal responsibility, I don't care, I have to answer for the absence of any result. It's nice when you say meteorology, but it's not true, Mr. Vujovic, and you know it as well. As for the change in this law that you've been talking about. I'm interested in whether, and why you've ruled out the possibility of the state, since it's a question, among other things, of interest policies. Why you've ruled out the possibility of the state in our banks borrowing in this way that they're in charge abroad, but you've tied it exclusively to government cards and value. We already have a predominant impact on the financial market, so when it is present in the dinar sector, let it be in the foreign currency if it can get to a more favourable interest rate. Like this, I feel like we're going from one side to the other. The state broadcasts charters, on the other hand, one state institution, such as that fund, and buys the records. No, I know, explain to me, I'm not a priori against it, but there must be some reason why we ruled out the domestic banking sector from that market. What if he offered a bigger and more favourable interest rate than that offered by the state? If it were more concrete, it's simple, I'm thinking from the point of view of the fund's director who looks at his income, because I assume that this director is what you signaled to the government that it's bad to pay a negative interest rate. The second issue in particular is the issue of interest policy and the fact that economic risk is decreasing because the country's credit rating is changing, but it is growing politically. Among other things, the fact that the EPS happened has nothing to do with the question of the potential of EPS, but exclusively with politics. Those who brought in the consultants have a name and a last name. As much as we're on our knees here, there's still enough knowledge for some jobs. That knowledge is marginalized. They profiled divisions through the EPS, took their fees, and today they're gone. Am I wrong, Mr. Antic when I say that among other things, that one of the key policies was the insistence that all blocks work maximum? If we had 350 megawatts instead of 320, for example. 90% we've always worked, doesn't have to spend, spend and spend. And then fly exports of surpluses, when the price is minimal, and in winter then we have to import at a much higher price. How much money did it go like that? That's the question. That's what we need to answer. As for these, these are necessary and logical changes. Of course, it should be supported. It's good credit. The German Development Bank is funding, there's no reason to doubt their seriousness, at least as far as LDP is concerned, but all of this, you know what, forget meteorology, Mr Vujovic, better to say that it's a human factor, not some divine force, because with God that we're fighting senseless and we don't believe in it, so even in that war we don't have to push us too much, but this other one certainly does. Let's get this straight with the EPS, and ride on other public enterprises, otherwise you'll be remembered as the man who shot down the public debt. There are not many such finance ministers in Europe, and he has failed to resolve the issue of directors and management of public enterprises. No, their results are management. Here, our colleague ended up in the Corridors, except he travels through Serbia, I don't know what he has to do with the Corridors. What a connection to the Corridors. We've come all this way with this policy, so today we're paying for the approved loans we took ten or 15 years ago and we're not able to realise them yet because there are no projects. Or we're also paying the team now for the expensive money the mistakes made over the last few years. The order in the EPS is a prerequisite for serious results, and they are not presently due to the fact that you are not prepared to establish that order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16268	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, George Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16269	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, honourable ministers, on behalf of the PS-NSS-USS parliamentary group in advance, I say that we will support all the laws we are discussing today and all the proposals for decisions on the agenda. I have to be impressed with the move I can take on a respected predecessor who seems to be only sorry that he failed at the time when he had the opportunity to rule Serbia to privatise the EPS the way he privatised the Veterinary Institute in Belgrade, with the help of pressure, blackmail and hackers, and he probably can never forgive himself because it got under their hands, the type of Fidelinka, and so on, there could be a lot of things. What I don't like about this loan is the only thing I don't like, but probably many of you are too, because we don't take the loan from Beobank, Investbank, South Bank, but we can still thank those who came in here on October 5th, as they did, burn down the Assembly and destroy everything that was supposed to be ours. "Electroprivred Serbia" is not such a simple system that one can bring down in a short time, so they have failed to completely destroy it for 12 years, but certainly not in five years can all that has been mutilated and destroyed for those 12. You know, this loan that is being taken is absolutely functional and understandable especially for us living in Obrenovac, because moving with a small amount of water is something that will affect the environment, and it will also allow conditions to go on and on, which should also contribute to the fact that the citizens of Obrenovac or the wider environment live in a healthier and more normal way, thus probably reducing the obligations of "Electroprivred Serbia" when it comes to the compensation for the threat of the environment in which we live. It is true that the floods in 2014 have caused enormous damage, and it is indeed completely irresponsible and unserious to say that in just three years, and then such a problem as they did on the spears can be solved. It may have been much easier to overcome that the predecessors who were obliged to provide and create conditions, that the Kolubara spears worked uninterrupted for some future period in creating new discoveries by buying land in the right places did their job properly. What was found in 2012? It was found that land was paid to households and landowners who would never be used for spears. Under which there will never be coal digging, they have done so, and I will openly say that I doubt that they have done it because of the fat commissions they have taken for it, not taking care of how much they return the complete "Electroprivred Serbia" system. They cared, as they did today, about what happened to Elektroprivred Serbia, but this is a topic they can manipulate, they can talk about what comes to mind, because people are easily accepting something they say. "Electroprivred Serbia", as far as I managed to look at the results which, unlike the previous years and earlier periods, ended up in a positive business. Currently, there are more than 500m euros in Elektroprivreda Serbia's account, coal is being dug, currently and these days it can be said that more than 10m tonnes of coal has been dug in Kolubara, that the coal has been shipped to the dumps, that the thermal plant dump is currently being filled with more than 600,000 tonnes of coal on dumps. And that is all that provides the full and clear energy stability that Serbia has. They may not have been interested in it, but we took what interests us, so we compared this winter that was strange, very difficult and difficult, and I have to compare it because they really admire Germany and the German banks, which I usually have respect for, because they are consistent, but I have to say that this year, "Electroprived Serbia" had a better energy stability and a smaller percentage of the decline than it was in Germany. It's not satisfactory, it needs to be even better. Serbia has enough resources, has enough capacity to have electricity and to remain a public enterprise, should not be privatised, and those who wanted the satra, who wanted to take a commission, such as when it comes to the Veterinary Institute, will simply never again be able to decide that in Serbia, or move forward from the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16270	The word has Minister Antic, the minister has the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16271	Ladies and gentlemen, since Mr. Jovanovic spoke quite inspiredly, I feel the need to answer that. First of all, my colleague Vujovic and I came here today to defend several legal projects, not the Elektroprivreda of Serbia. But given everything you've said, it simply deserves a series of answers. "Electroprivred" Serbia is not easy, where it has never been easy and it is always a very difficult and very serious system that does a very complex job to provide energy for Serbian citizens. What people in Serbia need to know is that we are, unfortunately, one of the countries that is the largest coal producer. We seem to be the fourth state in Europe to produce coal and nearly 37-38 million tonnes of coal annually produce, transport and produce electricity from them. A particularly complex system is the very link and link between "Colubara" and Tenta. People in Serbia should know that Kolubara produces between 28m and 29m tonnes of coal annually, which is transported between Lazarec and Obrenovac every year or at least these last few years. It is, the honourable MPs, in the middle of the winter 100,000 tons of coal a day. It's 66 compositions, trains that every day from Lazarec go to Obrenovac, first someone digs it up, so someone loads it up, so it goes away, so it gets delivered to the power plant, so you put the compositions back and it lasts 24 hours a day. I would never give myself the right neither as a minister nor as an MP to call such a huge work and such enormous energy and effort here to say, or relativize, a very serious process that is taking place. I repeat, 365 days a year from zero to 24. There are thousands of elements in that system that depend on how it works. Of course, it has its problems every year, it has its ups, it has its downs. I want to be here, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, because I suppose Mr. Jovanovic as a great expert, because that's how he performed he knows it. Over the past 15 years, Serbia's average annual production of Elektroprivred is around 33,700 GVH annually. In 2017, we measure from 2016, which was one of the two years with the largest electricity production in Serbia's history of the "Epekpoprivrede". They were both, of course, at this time, not at that time, so we're measuring. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure I wasn't, you were in that, and I'm in this when we talk in person. The year 2013 and 2017 were the largest production. So I repeat 2016 production 36,650 GVH, the average of the last 15 years is 33,700. In the first three months we have a decline compared to production in 2016 which, I repeat, is one of the two historical years with energy production. The production, Mr Jovanovic, is far greater in the first quarter than in 2001, 2002, 2003 and many years. I wouldn't spread my hands to Mr. Jovanovic, because you didn't leave us and in the meantime built some new energy facilities. I'm sorry. We haven't built a single new energy facility since. No one has left a site for this government to build a new energy facility on. So we work with the same facilities and with the same production capacity as in 2001. Also, the following circumstances must be considered. I don't know if all the MPs were in Serbia in January, but that January is the coldest month since 1964, according to statistics. I don't know if we were all in Serbia in January, perhaps some have forgotten that the Danube was completely frozen in January. I must say that with today at Elektroprivred Serbia in hydro-sector production we have 13% less production than in the same period last year. When it comes to January, it was far more. In April, 21% of the production was lower than in April 2016. So these are all objective factors – the Danube was cooled, there was no hydroproduction, there was extremely low temperature. If you remember, in January we couldn't drive 100,000 tons, or 66 compositions a day, but we drove twice as much because each car had to cool off before unloading at the thermal power plant. Also, we still haven't come out of the technology problems that are conditioned by the floods. Someone's gonna say, well, that was three years ago, but I have to remind you, we didn't have a single kilo of coal on the first day after the Colubara flood. So the production of the first day after the flood was zero kilograms of coal. We slowly started to raise production and the first thing we started, we started off from field "D". After we continued the Tamnava eastern field, and I must say that we are the Darkawa Western field, which is the largest coal producer, waiting for a while. In that time we have stepped up production in the field "D", unfortunately we have exploited the Reds completely during that period, and we are still suffering the consequences of all these technological processes and changes. Finally, the big problem that we're facing, but it's been going on for decades, and it would really be ugly to point fingers at each other, because it just seems like it hasn't been done properly for decades, it's creating conditions that these colliberal spears, especially those on the east side, are being properly developed. I repeat, just a little digression, imagine people, 28 million tons of coal a year is transported from that Colubare and burned in the thermal power plant. This has been followed by hundreds and millions of cubic discoveries, i.e. gaps that must be removed to exploit this coal. So these spears have to keep moving, maltenes like one living organism that keeps on progressing and attacking coal. The hots, the various authorities, and I repeat, have not had any courage for decades, nor have they been dedicated enough to accomplish this process to the end. I have to say, big problems came about in 2000 when it was completely stopped and brought into one state where it was that no one would touch, because that story of maltene was contaminated because of the various affairs that were happening in the process of expropriation. We have now reached one body of this field D to a point that is approaching violence and in that part of the territory is activated by one instability, one slide in the length of 2.6 km, which is why it has to for security and security reasons, because of the equipment, because of all the people who work there, to stop production, to move these systems and to start digging elsewhere. That process lasted. We, i.e. the prime minister, have fiercely criticised "Electroprived Serbia" for this production, because of this decline in coal production, but, I repeat, it is hard to get rid of it. In the end, Mr Jovanovic, I apologize, I must not directly, Mrs Gojkovic, any number, if we want to see positive – then we view it positively, if we view it negatively – then we will extract information that is good or bad at that time. That's why I like to observe data that has some continuity and a time period. If we're looking at it for a year, I have the data for a little over a year, "Electro-price of Serbia" exported electricity to 106.1 million, bought electricity for 75.4 million. So the difference is 30 million, plus. I'm not going to take this data that's perfect, the guy that now someone's giving me as much as it was in May this year, it's not relevant to me right now, as it's not relevant to me in one month or in one day. We're looking at a time period, we're looking at a time distance, and we're analyzing things in an absolutely objective way. So, the EPS situation is not great, but it's not catastrophic either, and I assure you that these data are such that "Electro-priority of Serbia" will reach a balance in coal production by the end of the year, which depends on the balance of production of the thermosectoral sector. When it comes to the hydrosector, it's something none of us can affect individually. We cannot play down below, and, as the honourable MP says, requests and prayers won't help much, these are objective factors that we all depend on. What the public needs to know, first quarter data isn't great and we're very unhappy when we treat them relative to the first quarter of last year. Digression – they're better than many years before. In the second quarter we have improvement, we will have growth in coal production. What we're going to do with the balance when it comes to power generation depends on the hydrosector as well. I repeat, for the honourable MP, 13% of production in the hydrosector has been lower since the beginning of the year compared to the same period last year. It's about the data that's available, which I can give to each and every one of you. So let's have a serious debate on the subject of these laws. If we're talking about the EPS, and we're talking about him completely seriously, so we don't politicize. I can agree that in one period, the big problem in Elektroprivred Serbia was the increased presence of different consultants. I say they are gone today and I repeat – the EPS is above the political parties, above the day-to-day political debate, an extremely important and significant system for the stability of this country and let us treat it seriously and responsibly, taking into account the results it has achieved, but also a great number of people who, I repeat, spend 365 days a year working from 0-24 hours a very difficult and responsible job, in order for us to have a regular supply of electricity. When it comes to the last question you asked and about the election of the Director-General, you know that a competition has been called, that the competition is in the phase that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will, in some future period, I hope very soon, consider all the applications received and that the General Director of Elektroprivreda of Serbia will be elected. What you need to know is that there's one governance structure there. We have a technical director for electricity production, we have, it's an executive director for electricity production, an executive director for coal production, so there are all the necessary professional structures in the management of "Electro-price of Serbia". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16272	Thank you. Replica, MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16273	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Antic, there's no need. It doesn't take me 10 minutes to answer. Do you think it's logical to say here in parliament that Vukic has the right to express his dissatisfaction with the EPS situation and I don't? So when Vukic criticises - that's okay, and when I criticize - it's politics. I told you there's no LDP power and no SPS. I made myself very clear. Who's responsible for the EPS consultants? You say you agree that there was everything there. Well, of course there was everything and everything. Why did you replace the EPS director if it's the way it's supposed to be? I don't have to be in Vienna to know that the Danube is frozen. We all know what the conditions were in January of the month, but it has nothing to do with the discovery. You mentioned 28 million tons of annual production. That's right. Targeted discovery is 30 million. It never went below 20. I ask you, how many of these days is the discovery of coal? It's not an attack on you. I don't expect you to go there now and do it. It's proof that the system as a system doesn't work. Why compare 2017 to 2000? They're not the same goals. The only thing that mattered was that we had electricity, that it was shining in our apartment. The earth is bombed, everything destroyed. Since 2008, the SPS has run energy in the country. You say nothing's been done. So you yourself worked with the Democrats and Tadic remonting Kostolac. Right? You brought the Chinese there and you made a remont. I said it's good what Bones does. You're jumping into your own mouth without any need. Why is the director being replaced if he's there the way you say he is? If this EPS is so important, why is the director so wanted? What's this about? We can't have a debate in parliament like that. That was extremely fair. We said we'd support these bill proposals that are ahead of us because they're logical. But it doesn't make sense to stick our heads in the sand in front of obvious problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16274	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16275	An EPS organization that had existed for years has been broken down.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16276	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16277	Just one more thing. You really are masters of coalition partners. You're worse than the Democratic Party. I thought I brought out every Marked gentleman in O'Brenovac. Afterwards, the police said it broke me down like that. Now, for the first time in my life, I've seen and heard that you're from Obrenovac. I don't know how we passed that time in Popov.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16278	Please, MP, thank you. Replica, Alexander Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16279	First of all, I said the fact that there was a decline in production compared to the first quarter of 2016 was publicly criticised. So I'm talking about numbers, but I repeat, it's just a comparative compared to 2016, which, I repeat, is one of the two years with the largest production in the history of "Electro-prived Serbia". Compared to the average production in 2017 is far from being able to characterise it as bad. It's not in line with our goals. It's the only assessment I can agree on, but, I repeat, I've put out a series of arguments that made it happen. Hidrology is one of the key rinks second and January which is what it is and we can't argue about what January was like. I repeat what is crucial – I am convinced that “Collubara” will deliver and deliver to thermal power plants and other customers, there is little for commercial customers, more than 28 million tonnes, and in 2017. I absolutely assure you of that. Far from the Prime Minister having the right to criticise without you having. I just said don't let us politicize it. Let's not mention Bosko Buh. So, what do we have to do with Bosca Buh for setting him up in 2000 as director of Tent? I didn't say that production was higher than 2000, but in the whole series of years since 2001 and beyond. Finally, I said very precisely that no new energy facility has been built for 25 years. I didn't say they weren't remounted. The first major energy facility to be worked is now Kostolac B3 signed in 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16280	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, George Komlenski, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16281	Given my physical characteristics, it's a good thing you didn't have to save me in Obrenovac, and it's one of the few undisputed positive things that I really have to admit to you and thank you on behalf of all those who were more evacuated in Obrenovac, because you were there and once in your life doing something right, but really let it go just so that someone who owes more than 200 million banks and media houses in business, that they don't know whether the student burned the grain or where the grain that was guaranteed seven million euros in credit ended, why they didn't pay the workers "Fidelinke" and then gives himself the right to comment on the functioning of Serbia's electricity system, has really exceeded every measure, and each of us needs to have a measure in something. I congratulate you on saving the citizens of Obrenovac, but the way you participated in the privatisations in your time, when both the veterinary office and all this I've counted, you should not at least give yourself the right to comment on anything about "Electroprivred Serbia" today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16282	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16283	Mr. Antic, you're defending the EPS now, as you defended NIS privatisation nine years ago. Are you aware of that? So you're defending something, first of all, which is indefensible, and it's not your duty at all. It is clear that in the EPS, with all the efforts that people put in there, no one disputes it, not only there, but also in many other places, that a better organisation needs to be established. The key problem is discovery. It always comes from the assumption that January will be the way it is. Sometimes there's a little more, and in four years we've been, this year we haven't, and that's what I said, but you don't defend what's indefensible. It is necessary to change the organization, to perfect it. Of course it should be more than 2016. We're not gonna walk four-legged all the time, are we? Once this country needs to get on its feet. Not that anything's been done in 25 years, so it's not for 50, it's not for 50, and that's our common problem. As far as this nonsense is concerned, they'll always be in politics, but it's crucial, bring into line the big systems. Everything that's been done is under a big question, precisely because you didn't get into what you had to get into first, and that's those systems -- the railroad, the pine. "The Iron" has been resolved, we supported it. You've got a big problem with the EPS, and everyone in your position would have it. Take care of it. If you are unable to solve it, then say we cannot do it, so we will find someone else who will do it, but do not defend the EPS now as you once defended the privatisation of NIS. Now it turns out no one privatized him.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16284	The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16285	Thank you very much. No, it's not a replica. The answer is to comment and clarification one. So, I understand your comment, and I accept the criticism. I'm not getting into meteorology anymore. I just estimated that if it took me three times as long to go two kilometers in downtown Belgrade, where all the pipes broke and the streets were inaccessible, I can guess what the situation was like on the open spears where we were several times. You can't go there when it's the nicest time, and when time was the way it was, at -15S, I can only assume that it's there for people to stand there for eight hours in open space and work. So whoever wasn't there should have looked at it. It's hard to live there when the temperature is +25S. One comment on a very important topic you've run here. A commentary and a call sounds very good, but we need to be aware of the limitations we live on. So, the call to invest in domestic banks, just to explain briefly. So, the fleet that exists in the law says this – in the situation where deposit money is invested, be careful, these are deposits that actually protect domestic banks. So, we have now intervened with a loan taken by the state, or the people of Serbia, to fill the Deposit Insurance Fund. In a certain period of time, banks will be able to withdraw from the fund by paying one contribution to savings deposits. So it's a fund that's designed to provide all the deposits that should basically be a private fund for certain state control. The state here is not the only participant in the process. The state here only guarantees stability. So it's a fund that protects savings in a private banking system that, according to the country's April 2014 strategy, should become mainly private very soon. Now, how do you invest money? This fund gives it to the National Bank, i.e. in each country, to the central bank, which then invests it in accordance with, or as part of, its foreign reserve. There's a catch. Those foreign exchange reserves can only be placed in certain commercial banks that have the best rating, and they do not have all the banks, either in Switzerland or Germany. They only have certain banks and they qualify to be sufficiently liquid and high enough to have that highest rating needed for foreign exchange reserve placements. If we had such banks, and even the mothers of our banks here abroad don't have such a rating, since we don't usually have such a good bank in our country, there's no obstacle for the People's Bank, among other things, to invest proportionally in the instruments of these banks. Unfortunately, at least today is not the case. I hope it'll be like that in a few years, when we get to that rating. It's about investment in banks. As for the meaning of the whole story, so remember that this Deposit Insurance Fund was emptied just because some banks didn't follow those rules, so we had to collectively intervene and do it. Therefore, your call is perfectly logical, but I interpret it as a goal in the future. Right now, we can't and we don't have a basis to do that. What we do is that here is also the opposition of many people who do so. We're trying to say that since the state has already taken full risk on itself, at least in a situation where they charge us negative interest rates, that we can close it down so we don't at least pay for it, because it doesn't increase the risk, because the state has already taken the risk on itself. That's what I'm saying. I'm not absolutely against what you say, but since you have a limit on who's qualified, you can't. It would be good if anyone could give a Ph.D. Not everyone has the right to give a doctorate and so not everyone here has the right to hold foreign reserves that meet international criteria.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16286	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16287	Thank you. Dear President, honourable Ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, here today on the agenda of the session, which was called yesterday at 10:00 p.m., we have interesting agenda points, and this concerns the new task of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That this is an important session also says that at this point there is no transmission, that it was called yesterday within a very short period of time, and that today, by chance or not, Minister Antić and Mr Grcic had their press statements on these very topics that we should talk about. I understand today that you should defend government policy and you, Mr. Vujovic, and Mr. Antic, I appreciate personally as people and as professionals, but I just feel like you're trying to defend something that is indefensible today. So the fact is quite clear. Today, you are asking MPs here to make a decision that the state will guarantee that Serbian citizens are giving guarantees for a new EPS task, and Minister Antic says he can guarantee that the EPS will return it itself, in which it cannot be trusted with certainty if we look at what has happened in the past five years. I understand that for large investments it is necessary to take investment loans under favourable conditions, I understand that KfW is a good credit line. I also absolutely support the realization of these projects. So these are very important projects from an environmental point of view, very important projects, above all, for people living in that part of Serbia and for air and for groundwater and for land, and there is no dilemma whether or not this should be done. On the other hand, I have a serious dilemma about how to finance it. I am against, absolutely, a new task, especially in a situation where the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia says on 1 May this year that more than 440m euros are at the expense of Elektroprivrede Serbia. Forty days earlier, he said he was located over half a billion euros in the account of the Public Enterprise "Electroprivreda Srbija", which was confirmed by the director of "Electroprivrede Serbia" after the prime minister's statement, saying they had funds to invest. Since it is an investment that is only ten percent compared to what is on the account, I do not understand why "Electro-priority of Serbia" continues to be in debt, and in particular I cannot support it from the aspect of the people who manage the EPS and who have led to the situation here in this room today. So, since 2012, for five years, we've been listening to different stories about EPS, from the fact that there won't be electricity collection, and if we add all of this up since 2012, in these five years, we're going to get about 16% of the electricity has accumulated, even though it's been promised to the citizens that there will be no electricity collection. An electricity tax has been introduced. Thus, economic philosophy continues to be taken from the poor, to be given to the rich. When I talk about the rich, first of all I mean public enterprises, public enterprises that you haven't reformed in five years. I also talked about it when the budget for this year was adopted and warned you, Minister Vujovic, that all that you have achieved through the consolidation measures, that the wasteful public enterprises that you have not reformed will eat. And that's what's happening now. Here, the prime minister himself has recently admitted that in the first quarter, GDP growth is only 1%. You told us during adoption that you expect GDP growth to be up to 4% this year. So Serbia continues to be at the start of the region at the rate of GDP growth, and for this to the greatest extent it is borne by unprofessional personnel managing public systems and, of course, unreformed public enterprises for which the government did not have the strength or intended for some reason to implement them and reform them. So we're talking all the time about how for the smaller production of coal, it's the wrong winter that was strong, how last year was the record production. Now I'm going to read you some data from the Statistics Office. I suppose it is a reference institution that provides true information about certain situations in the Republic of Serbia and regardless of the attempts of permanent and constant, above all, Prime Minister Vukic, to try through various scenarios, to through the performances tell Serbian citizens that they should not worry, that the EPS is developing, that the situation is completely stable, that there are no losses, and the data and facts are completely different. That it is different to say that the government predicted, according to the prime minister, the new 250m euros to invest in the EPS, at least that's what the prime minister said. Here, I have his quote. As for the production of electricity from the beginning of this year, I read to you the data from the Bureau of Statistics, the EPS every month imported electricity, in January 578 million kilowatt hours, in February 145 million kilowatt hours, in March 213 kilowatt hours. The current we're buying today is 20% more expensive than it was last year. The EPS sold electricity for 21 euros approximately per megawatt hour and bought for 40. For imports of electricity in the first three months of this year, 848 million kilowatt hours we paid 42m euros, according to data in 2017. As for electricity production itself, in January 7% is lower this year than in January of the previous year, 12.8% lower than in February last year and 29.9, so even a third less electricity production than in March of last year. So maybe I can say that the meteorological opportunities in January were problematic, but I can't say that, and no one can convince me that's the way it is in March. So, it is said that the production that is smaller is due to the lack of professional ability to manage public enterprises, and that unprofessional staff should now convince us here that we should vote and give guarantees for a new EPS task, that is, a new responsibility for the citizens of Serbia and because of such a policy of business of the EPS, it is likely by the end of this year, and you, Minister Vujovic, know very well, that Serbia will once again place Serbia in a group of countries with the slowest GDP growth. Also, as we are already talking about the staff, we have listened to the prime minister's announcements several times about how professionalisation of public enterprises' work will take place, 30.10. said that by the new year, it will change all directors of public enterprises, that it will choose them after the competition. However, unfortunately, Serbia is still in V.D. today. status, as V.d. is set. Directors at the most responsible places in the Republic of Serbia, in a large system, and EPS is the largest public enterprise in Serbia today. The man who manages the system today, except for paying electricity for his roaster, has no touch points with the operation of one such economic operator, which is unserious. But it's not his fault. It's the ones who brought him here. Minister Antić, I fully understand and respect your efforts, but you cannot ignore the fact that as far as people and business and business policies are concerned in the EPS, it is disastrous. In addition, the following fact speaks. You were like the SPS in the energy sector and in 2012. In 2012, 31 million tonnes of coal was produced in Kolubara, which was 6% more than was planned. It is also separated from the EPS' own funds, without the state's assistance, between 80m and 100m euros for investment. During that period, the EPS itself could do what it cannot do today. We're listening to the ECS director's excuses today, which says it's smaller production because they've been elemental accidents, because they've been some kind of slides, and we can't get to the bottom of it, that it's not working on... It is obvious that it fails to meet their needs there on the ground, that today the ground is being undermined in order to have some coal reserves, in order to ensure on a daily basis coal reserves, that there are probably settlements and streets and roads and various installations, and that is something that actually says that we have a completely non-domestic and non-systemic business in the EPS company. Therefore, we should not be surprised at affairs such as increased electricity bills, where citizens in their pockets probably had an obligation, or you forced them to raise public business balances by giving them bills bigger than what they had spent and you accept it and continue with such practice. We will see now in a competition that is called who will be the most professional in managing Serbia's largest public enterprise. I hope it will be more professional in the area than the new director of Corridor Serbia, which was set up from the assembly benches, also on the party line. Therefore, the practice of setting up directors is continued exclusively on the party line and, of course, party employment in these systems through various agencies and through various ways to achieve some political point. So this is important for Serbia, Mr. Minister, and this should not be thrown into the field of politics. We all do politics here, and we all have different opinions. The largest Public Enterprise, which is "Electro-Serb" cannot be the subject of such stories and must not be allowed by the government to let such things happen and to push it under the carpet. Don't push it under the carpet, because it will cost us all a lot in the future, especially as regards the future development of the "Electroprivreda of Serbia", Serbia's energy system, of course, and economic growth in the Republic of Serbia, which we all need to strive for. As for the task of "Electro Network of Serbia", it is slightly less than 15m euros in total. Today we are talking about a 60m-euro debt. The "Electro Network of Serbia" company also had different situations in business. I have only one example to give, which is that in December, our company Elektro Network Serbia bought 10% of the action of the "Montenegro Electricity System" at the cost of 0.95 euros per action. The next day, based on data from the Montenegrin Stock Exchange, that price was 9.2% higher than the average price of that day, and today the price of one stock is, according to today's stock market report, 0.65 euros per share. So, I'm also talking about another way of undomestically thinking and making decisions that will eventually and always end up being paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and we always have to take care of that. As for the Deposit Insurance Agency, therefore, I understand what Minister Vujovic was saying, I also understand the role of the Deposit Insurance Agency, but we are giving this another authority to the Agency itself. I'll remind you that we had in a very distant history and situation that the management of the Deposit Insurance Agency was making some unexplainable decisions, which is, for example, that, like other state-owned enterprises, deposited funds into a private universal bank that failed. So, an institution, such as the Deposit Insurance Agency, which has a role to guarantee and secure the savings roles of our citizens, does not know that it takes care of itself. This is a serious question and it is now one of the administrators in the entire procedure with the Universal Bank which has ended we all know how and in what way, and otherwise it has served to provide certain tycoons, who were close to the authorities at the time, with certain non-covered discounts, which they used for their business. Therefore, these laws that are now connected to each other, although they do not have too many touching points, but unfortunately we have become accustomed to working in the congregation so that everything can be connected with anything, you cannot expect MPs to pay serious attention to all points. In the end, I will underline my presentation with another story about the state of the "Electroprivred Serbia". Please, one and the other minister, whom I appreciate both as people and as professionals, I repeat once again, that you do not push things under the carpet, that for some coalition or any agreement you do not leave cases and such systems like EPS to chance, unprofessional people, and that from that later on, we all suffer. Of course, you all know very well who you are sitting in government today and it is clear that you can do anything with this kind of authority today. With this much support, with a media situation like this in Serbia, it cannot be disclosed. You can say today it's snowing outside and we can't dispute it, but I ask you to bear in mind that it can make a very, very far-reaching consequence for our society. This loan we're taking today, or we're giving guarantees for that loan, you're going to vote it out, because you have a majority, you're going to get someone back in five years, five years is the grace period, in 2022 someone's going to have to pay it back. The question is whether at that time the EPS will be able to return it or will again be the intervention of the Republic of Serbia's budget, i.e. citizens who will again be the victim of wrong decisions and whose pockets and coat of arms will be re-possessed with bad and wrongly made decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16288	The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16289	Absolutely respecting the right and the will and desire of all MPs to have political moments and political views of things in their discussions, I will not compromise them in this way. I just need a few things, I think, for the sake of this entire high house and the public, to clarify, as a elemental fact. First, yes, on May 1st, when we visited Kolubari, we said that, for all the things that are necessary to be done in "Colubari" in the coming period, including what you were talking about. So, the opening of Field E, the opening of Fields G and Radljev, to invest 250m euros in the "Colubary" from the "Colubare" funds, the EPS. So it's not about any means that will intervene with the budget or the Republic of Serbia, it's about the funds "Electroprived by Serbia". I have to underline once again, the EPS and the EMS are returning all their loans themselves, and that's always been the case. Maybe there's some old story about the London and the Paris Club, which I don't know, but all of these from a younger generation, they pay off their own obligations. When it comes to "Electronos Montenegro", I absolutely respect the fact that individual MPs are following the price of actions at the daily level of "Electrorenosa". I don't really do that, and I'm not familiar with that data, but I think we should look at the broader context of that job here. I repeat, the trans-Balkan corridor, Montenegro and its participation in the construction of the cable towards Italy. I think the fact that EMS has become part of the "Electrorenos of Montenegro", i.e. the owner of the part of the action in Elektrotronos". It is a strategically important thing for Serbia. That's my opinion. We can talk about it. Finally, you ask why there was a reduction in electricity production in March. I think I've given an explanation. If I wasn't carefully listened to by my distinguished colleagues, so, when it comes to March, first, we have a problem with hydrology in the whole first quarter, and it's 13% less today, but in the same period last year. I said at the end of February, we had activated instability or a slide in field D on the direction of the Warlocks in the length of 2.6 kilometers. We had to extract that equipment, move the production to another location, and that's where we stabilized the production in Field D only on April 12th. So, the whole March field D had only symbolic production and then under such conditions "The Dark-West Field" couldn't give all that missing amount of coal. If we add to this the fact that the Darkawa-West Field has a lower quality of coal, that it is below 7,000 kilojoules per kilogram than that of the field D that goes over eight, and then we, let me say, iron that balance with the mix of those two coals. Then it's quite clear why there's been a fall. I repeat, we are absolutely not happy, nor anyone normal can be happy about the fall in energy production in the EPS. We are very dissatisfied with the Prime Minister, the Ministers of the Government. Here's the truth, it's the easiest thing to throw stones at people, I'm talking about what led to it, I'm not afraid of it worth it, I'm just stating the facts. I repeat, we came here to defend four laws, not to defend the EPS, as I did not defend the privatisation of NIS in 2008 because I did not even sit in this parliament, but I was with you in one of the local self-governments. I like to tell the truth here, and I think it's our minister's duty that when we come to Parliament and the public to bring out a state of action without any coloring or any, let's say, playing with facts. That's all I'm doing, and I'm not defending anyone, and I hope, based on the arguments, that we will be leading the controversy, not on the basis of political needs, that at a certain point, we will all strike at the same point together. I'm not part of that team that hits the same point, but I'm telling the truth, and I'm calling everyone to deal with facts and numbers with which there are no lies and no frauds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16290	Snow White Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16291	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, today's assembly debate concerns a set of financial laws whose implementation should reflect positively, above all, the economic sector. These are the first additions to the Deposit Insurance Act and the addition of the Deposit Insurance Agency Act. As we have heard from the Minister, their application should contribute to the responsible management of the funds of the Deposit Insurance Fund and the Investor Protection Fund. The second set of laws is loan agreements with foreign banks for the energy sector. The first refers to the modernisation of the TENT A impregnation system and the second to the realisation of the regional energy efficiency programme in the electricity transmission system, whose user will be JP "Electro Networks of Serbia". Both investments should contribute more effectively to the energy sector's work, but also to more efficient implementation of environmental protection measures, to which EU regulations oblige us. First of all, I would refer to the additions of two closely related laws, the Deposit Insurance Act and the Deposit Insurance Agency Act. As can be seen, the proposed additions to these laws are complementary and are a harmonisation of the provisions of the Deposit Insurance Act with the Deposit Insurance Agency Act. The amendments relate to the improvement of the fund's asset management model for the Deposit Insurance Fund and the Fund for the Protection of Investors. The funds of these funds shall, under applicable laws, be kept in special accounts with the National Bank in order to be available for use for the legal purposes established. While waiting for use, in order to protect and increase, they invest in useful financial transactions, so dinar assets are invested in debt securities issued by the Republic of Serbia or the National Bank of Serbia, and foreign securities are invested in securities of value or in foreign banks that give the most favourable interest. This is what the National Bank does on the basis of the contract and according to the approval of the Deposit Insurance Agency. However, as more foreign banks' policies are in the West, and this is in the eurozone, not to give more positive interest on foreign foreign currency storage, but rather many charge foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign exchange funds in their accounts. In that case, our funds would not be increased by the amount of the credited interest, but would be reduced by the amount of negative interest to keep the funds. So, if the bank interest on deposited foreign foreign foreign foreign foreign currency is replaced by a deposit and depositary fee, then the deposit is costed, not profits. In order to address and reduce the losses of our money, the Government and the Ministry of Finance, these two laws propose the protection of our funds at its disposal and managed by the Deposit Insurance Agency. Protection is provided in such a way that, in the event of the introduction of negative bank interest on the foreign banking market, the money available to the Agency will be able to invest, not only in dinar, but also in foreign debt charters, from the values issued by the Republic of Serbia or the National Bank of Serbia. One such solution, proposed, is a flexible model by which the implementation achieves a faster response to changes in foreign bank banking policies, as well as a fully adequate protection through the prevention of cash cuts managed by the Deposit Insurance Agency due to negative interest rates in foreign banks. In this regard, it is undeniable that two of those laws are one good step towards even more responsible management of the Agency’s resources, i.e. primarily by the means of our taxpayers. When it comes to loan agreements, which are on the agenda, I would like to point out that development loans whose resources will improve one of Serbia's supporting sectors of economic development, which is the energy sector. Serbia has serious energy resources and relys on domestic production, including exports, and has production capacities that have provided the country's energy stability during the previous period, even in very difficult conditions of production. There was a lot of talk about it here, actually, the minister explained on several occasions the value of all of it. Energy is a sector that requires continuous maintenance and modernisation and development, so that means a serious investment. Energy production systems, such as hydrothermia and thermal power plants, but also transmission systems require continuous investment to increase and be safe. Development that involves modernisation only for the sake of increased production, but also to save limited natural resources and their efficient use. What is important is to say that it is inevitable and concerned about the protection of the environment, because it is known that energy, especially production and use of coal, pose a risk factor for environmental health, including for humans. The loan agreement signed between the "Electro Network of Serbia" and the German Development Bank should provide 15m euros in credit for the implementation of the commitment from the regional energy efficiency programme in transmission systems. The primary objective of this programme is to ensure the national energy security of the Republic of Serbia through the security and efficient transmission system. In particular, this would mean that this loan will replace a long-term network of a low voltage level of 220 sq, a system that is multiplely higher capacity and higher voltage level, i.e. 400 sq. The development objective of this programme is essentially to contribute to sustainable economic development of the Republic of Serbia by harmonising transmission systems with the basic postulates of energy efficiency, but also by contributing to global climate protection by reducing carbon dioxide emissions. The funding of this programme, of national and regional interest, will also allow for transnational transmission of electricity at large distances, with minimal losses. This will bring together the energy markets of Eastern and Western Europe. What is most important is this investment will guarantee safe and stable supply of domestic consumers with sufficient amounts of quality electricity. When it comes to the second agreement, i.e. the loan agreement concluded with the German Development Bank, the borrower is JP "Electroprivreda Srbija", and the amount of the loan is 45m euros. The Republic of Serbia also provides guarantees in favour of the German Development Bank, and the loan funds will be used for the TENT A burn system modernisation project. The aim of this project is to reconstruct the system for the collection, transport and disposal of ash and slags in Tent A. It is no secret that this is, above all, the largest thermal power plant in the Republic of Serbia, with the largest production volume, and hence, with the largest emissions of ash and slags. The existing systems will be reconstructed, thus improving the performance of the fertilisation process, and all in line with international standards of environmental protection. The reasons for the reconstruction are in order to obtain a reliable technical and technological system which will deposit the ash, slags and plasters from these blocks, with the satisfaction of environmental protection conditions, and thus protect the health of the population. New technical and technological solutions prevent the transmission of wind ash, illicit pollution of ground and surface waters, particularly the Sava River, from polluting the surrounding soil, as well as the treatment of waste water in the burning system. The reconstruction will also ensure that requirements are met, both domestic and European legislation in the areas of air, water and land protection. To remind me, the harmonisation of domestic legislation with communal law, as well as practices in the environmental protection sector, is one of the important conditions for EU membership. In particular, the reconstruction of the ash and slag disposal system, i.e. by the application of new ash disposal technology, will drastically reduce the impact of ash disposal on the quality of surface and groundwater, while air pollution will be reduced to an acceptable level. Therefore, more environmentally desirable and acceptable technological solution will be applied. In view of all the consequences of the health of the citizens living in the vicinity of the thermal power plant, as well as the health of nature can produce ash and slag from that thermal power plant, I consider it necessary to reconstruct the existing impregnable system which rests on outdated technologies. On the other hand, there is no need to ignore the fact that ash from thermal power plants is a significant resource that can be used in construction, construction of roads and for other purposes and is estimated to be worth as much as a billion euros. My colleague Ivan Karic will talk more widely about the ecological aspect of the fertilisation, and in the context of the effects that we expect after the implementation of the project for which loans are taken with the German Development Bank, I confirm that the SPS parliamentary group will support the ratification of these two agreements because it is development projects in the field of energy. In voting day, the SPS parliamentary group will also support these agreements, as well as other laws discussed by parliament at this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16292	Thank you. George Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16293	Dear colleagues, gentlemen ministers, it is no wonder that a fellow SPS member will support these laws, but it is a bit of a surprise, especially for those who watch black and white when I say that I and my colleagues will support at least part of these proposed laws, above all those who are concerned, of course with some reserves and amendments that we have submitted, the Deposit Insurance Agency, because that is the point, should be the meaning of a congregation debate, not that black white division that pulls us back, in the power of the opposition, which is natural, logical and necessary, but not at all cost. A few weeks ago, we had, unfortunately, an exception here, and there should be practice and a rule, one quality debate with two draft laws, two proposals for medical laws on transfusions and transfusions, and a biomedically assisted fertilisation, where for Minister Loncar, you know, more or less, the public knows what the opinion of the opposition that Mr. Loncar had when he was elected as minister and what criticisms came to his account, but he came prepared with two serious bill proposals and no one well-intentioned could really ignore that fact that we had one quality and good debate. This should actually be a guideline and a recommendation on how to look at our debates, including the need to sometimes lead both polemics and sometimes put an accent on these political dimensions. Today we have a partial case, but unfortunately we have two draft laws that I and my colleagues have, and I believe and hope a good part of Parliament cannot support, because in these other two proposals, the agenda points are actually about new loans, i.e. debts and debt increases, this time for public enterprises, but the debt is also a debt, however, and the state of Serbia and this Assembly should provide guarantees for those debts that two public enterprises, i.e. those two loans that these public enterprises need to take over. Go back to what's positive. If I understand correctly, the idea of the proposed, not these loans, or not these loans taken by the ESM and EPS, but these solutions concerning the Deposit Insurance Agency, is that now this Agency has the possibility and is given the opportunity to make those funds more flexible and, instead of having the funds available, the funds available to the Fund, to invest them only in foreign banks, can now be placed through the government of Serbia, that is, through the state of Serbia and as a charter of values issued by the National Bank and the state of Serbia. I think that's a good solution, and I would only recommend that the government, or the minister, think about kicking out of the bill a fence that exists that's something that's only in force as long as the circumstances are. What circumstances? Circumstances, that's what some colleagues said, but to remind you of what's really important, that the largest number of banks in the world today, these credible banks, which are worth and in which it's safe to invest, actually have a negative interest. In other words, they charge to keep you money. The state of Serbia if it keeps that money in those banks has to pay in that total fund and the funds are cut. That's why I think this solution is otherwise positive and now we're ready to support that proposal and that solution, even in this more general sense. Why should we limit ourselves in advance that this measure applies only while such negative interest rates are on the world market? Why wouldn't our country, why wouldn't its securities of value be equally competitive or at least participate equally with these foreign banks? After all, our goal is always to meet the good conditions, not to be a risk, and we hope that there will be no risk if these promises that our government is constantly making are partially fulfilled, then there will be no risk, and why should we not invest and place across the National Bank and into domestic securities of value? I support the proposal for a solution, but I suggest that these fences be rejected as long as there are circumstances which, in some way, favour the placement of foreign or even imperialally imposed placement in foreign banks. This measure, if I am not mistaken, and you will correct me, comes from the time of Mladjan Dinkic when he was leading the main issue of finance, so the good part and the economic policy of this country also made some sense when it was passed, but I think it is too restrictive and pre-qualifies and qualified domestic securities of value. In this regard, I support this proposal for a solution and we suggest that this is a little less timidly formulated. I find it indicative that at one point you said you were even being criticised, that you were being criticised for this solution as if there were some censorship committee, not in the state, but at some transnational level, which is reluctant to invest and place that money on the domestic market, they are probably afraid of being abused. Abuse is always possible, but especially in some way if we trust the people who run the agency, then we should also trust that it will take care of the interests of the Serbian state, as well as of course the money it has. Whether it's a case or not, we can't know that in advance. It's a good measure. She deserves support, and I'm happy to vote for her. Unfortunately, there are two other points of the agenda, and as far as these loans are concerned for Elektroprivreda, where we cannot in this way support for the reasons that we partly discussed, Mr. Vujovic, briefly because there was not enough time during our previous session, and if I am not mistaken within five days, you are here to defend as many as four loans, not exactly the same. These are loans for the EPS and the ESM, and these are the money obtained by the state of Serbia and the government of Serbia's budget, but the point is the same. We, therefore, dear colleagues, draw attention to you, for just seven days or five days, depends on how we count, here we have committed that the state of Serbia will be in charge directly or indirectly, state or public enterprises, which is again guaranteed by the state, for, if I have gathered well, 283.6m euros. Last week or Monday, we voted 180 plus 41, and today we need to come forward, that is, these days about a loan to a new, new 45m-euro loan and another 15m-euro loan. So 45 for Elektroprivreda and 15 million for Electrical Networks. So 45 and 15 is 60 and those 223 since last week, that's 283.6m euros. What does a colleague say, is it small? I know, and I've seen from this data that these are relatively favourable interest rates. I know you can explain well, what you demonstrated last time, and that in some ways after your presentation sometimes it seems like a gift to us is approximately, not a loan. Hello, and the citizens of Serbia know it, however, it is a debt, and debt is always an evil friend. You should avoid borrowing whenever possible. So, my question to you directly, i.e. now, my colleague Antić, or your colleague, Minister Antić, is – if it is true that the balances as the Prime Minister has said, the EPS balances such that there are half a billion or 440m euros in the account, if this loan is 10% or 10 times smaller which we are now taking from the German Development Bank, and for a project that is valuable and there is no doubt that it is necessary to solve this serious problem and technological and environmental problem with the Termo Power Plant "Nikola Tesla", why is credit taken and does not work from such impressive reserves that EPS has in its account? So 440, and this is 45 million. So literally 10%. Also, in that light, the mentioned investment in the Montenegrin electricity network seems to me, and you will tell me your opinion, or you have already said, suspiciously and indivisibly, a team before only partially and minimally, if I may say so, invested in that Montenegrin power grid, and that cost us, if I'm not mistaken, and you'll correct me, just about ten million euros, just as much as this second loan that Serbia's power grid takes back from the German Development Bank. I have reasonable doubts, and I would like to share that suspicion with you, with my colleagues, with the ministers, with the public, that this offensive borrowing is neither the first nor the last, which when it comes to EPS is going and relying on German sources. I ask myself, I ask you, and you deny me, I'll be glad, that it can be understood as some kind of foreplay and preparation of the field for the sale of EPS or at least the ESM as the most profitable potential part of the electro-region right now in Germany? Let's say that these loans don't come back or they can't come back, then they'll either come back as a rescue solution, usually that's how it happens, so at least it was, and then we get into a strategic partnership, so from a strategic partnership, actually a step by step appears as a minority, and then very quickly as a majority owner, and so we lose control of such a strategic and important company as the EPS. Here are some very convincing data, which you have only partially and not overly successfully denied, about the decline in electricity production in Serbia in the first months of this year. There are extenuating circumstances, and you listed them, by thinking that this climate argument might be the tiniest, because as you saw and as it turned out, production was falling even more in February than in January, and even more in March than in February this year. So there's a problem. If it wasn't just a malice shouting of some opposition MPs, I would quote here a quote from someone who should be for you and for my colleagues across the street to be the ultimate authority. This is what Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic, who mentioned here, Colubari, quoted: "We have problems this year that make EPS because we don't have enough production growth compared to last year, we have problems in coal production, we don't know when Kostolac will be solved, we have problems with slides, we haven't made new discoveries." It's a finished quote. So these are the words of the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic. Now, you can let us say the same thing then maybe say something a little bit sharper and maybe less optimistic or less mild than it sounds. So, the problems are real, there are and you've also accepted them here in part. I agree that the problems are real and don't think that they're from yesterday and that they're only going to the management of these authorities, or these authorities, but I'm drawing attention that there are and, as they say, in addition to objective difficulties and subjective problems and subjective circumstances. What are subjective problems? It's the personnel who run that company. Because if I understand it correctly, and I think I am, the main problem why electricity production is reduced, I'm not talking about this hydrological situation right now, is the smaller production of coal. So Tent produced less electricity because there was less coal coming from the Colubara. You see, miracles, that's a detail that may have missed the public, and perhaps some colleagues, the current performer of the entire EPS has just arrived from Columbus. It's Mr. Milorad Greek. So he's directly and indirectly responsible. Now he's the CEO of the EPS, and recently he was head of the Colubara. Therefore, there is a difficult escape from some kind of objective and subjective responsibility for current management of the EPS, although that, if I am not mistaken, is in VD condition. Independently, it was about the human skills of public enterprises. There is one school of opinion, and it is shared by some colleagues both in opposition and in power, that it is best to sell and privatise everything. Then, I would say, frames such as Mr. Greek, that he is not now a black sheep, he may not be the only one, perhaps not even the worst, so the staff of such solutions serve as the main argument to colleagues from the government and the opposition, analysts and economists, mostly these neoliberal orientations, to say -- here, you see, these public enterprises, it's a bottomless hole, it's best that we sell it all, that the foreigners come to us, and then when it's private and it's foreign private, then it will bloom. I deeply disagree with this philosophy, and I believe neither do you, Mr Anticu, nor do I hope that colleagues on the other side disagree. On the other hand, if we have such staff and we have such balances as many public enterprises, and now, for God's sakes, I'm afraid that the EPS is going that way, too, so I don't list others, then it's going to be major arguments, great arguments to everyone who says -- let's sell out because we're not able to manage it successfully. To get that argument out of hand, then we need to make these public enterprises efficient in different ways, and above all by quality management. In your hands, and I end it, gentlemen and colleagues, are both a knife and a cake, an absolute majority of MPs and practically all the government in the country at all levels. Well, bring in capable management, find in your ranks or yourself close to the ranks of people, experts who can guide it well. Don't let incompetent personnel give ammunition to those who want to ruin it to prove they're right and that they can score and say that the state, especially the Serbian state, can't be a good owner of anything. With that argument, she tried and sold Telekom a few years ago. If it's any consolation, the previous government was also trying to sell Telekom, so they failed. That gave up this time. So, this kind of neoliberal, I would say destructive economic philosophy feeds on precisely the poor work of public enterprises and the poor work of personnel, as I now have the impression of the EPS. This can be prevented, it must be prevented, and then these loans, I repeat and conclude, that in five days this Assembly in some way confirms the borrowing of this country of 280m euros, and that such a situation, hopefully, will not be repeated, i.e. He'll be able to avoid it. Otherwise, we are followed by debt slavery, and not in some distant future, but in a very near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16294	The word is Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16295	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we are today discussing two sets of economic laws and two loans for EPS and ESMs in this high house. As for these economic laws, I must remind you that two years ago and something, that is, on February 3, 2015, we adopted a new Deposit Insurance Act and the Deposit Insurance Agency, for two basic reasons. The first is that the Agency and the Deposit Insurance Fund were emptied until the last dinar, and then the bankruptcy of banks and the protection of government depositors had to intervene with funds from the international community and from the World Bank, the Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. These organisations have asked us to pass laws that will also address the issue of deposit insurance and the issue of the Agency's work, in accordance with international standards. We did it on February 3, 2015, and today we intervene with these changes in these two laws due to negative interest rates in the Eurozone. I consider it a step forward, a step in the right direction, when we ourselves take very important steps that help us stabilize our economic system. As for loans from the German Development Bank for the EPS and the ESM, we expect this loan to work more efficiently than EPS and ESM, and we expect production to be bigger and that we have some progress in protecting the environment. It's very important that the loan these two public companies themselves are to settle, which is actually a state guarantee because of favourable conditions. I would agree with you, Mr Antic, that the EPS is going through a serious transformation and transition, along with the EPS through that area of transformation, the Serbian Railways are also passing through. I believe that the process of our public enterprises that have been in trouble for a long time will be rounded up in the next period with one positive outcome. Of course it's not easy or simple. I think we need as a state to exploit the maximum potential we have and in terms of using renewable energy sources. We also enjoy many regional projects, and this loan should be one momentum for the construction of the trans-Balkan corridor, but also to enable the reconstruction of the ash transport system in the largest EPS thermal power plant, and the result should be more high-quality air, with the aim of protecting ourselves from pollution and, of course, even air and land. I think it is very important that all of these four voting laws are supported and that Serbian citizens understand the importance of taking favourable loans, i.e. loans, and also how important it is that we take certain steps in terms of protecting our economic system when it comes to negative interest trends in the euro area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16296	Marko Djurisic, Ana Ćirić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Jelena Vujic Obradovic, Zoran Krasic. (Goran Ciric: You switched to the list? On the list. (Goran Ciric: I thought there were more powers. And none of them will be able to do so. Ambassador, don't, you've been taken to me. I asked if you wanted to now or later. You said tomorrow. The word is Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16297	First, I'll start with these laws that apply to guarantees. I'll try to avoid the story of what we've written about the amendments, because that's what we'll talk about when there's a debate in particular. I must inform the public that, according to official data from the Ministry of Finance, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia is 24.9 billion euros on 31 March 2017. I'm reading your data, so you don't need to argue with anything. It's in dinars of about 3,089 billion dinars. I must tell you that we in Serbia have three ways of showing the state of public debt and the participation of public debt in GDP. According to the Public Debt Act, on 31 March it was 65.3%, according to the EU methodology it is 62.1%, according to the Budgetary System Act it is 66.2%, and according to the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia we can only assume how much it could be. Another very significant piece of information for today's debate is that the Republic of Serbia had public debt transactions in the first three months of this year and I'm just going to name a few. When the issue of state records was broadcast on the domestic market, the state was about 1,000 billion dinars on January 1st, and on March 31st it was reduced to 995 billion. If we take the German Development Bank, the state of debt on 1 January 2017 was 10,542,000, and on 31 March it was 11,000,000 and several. So it's growing. Eurobonds. Obligations based on Eurobonds have fallen slightly. If we look at it as an indirect obligation to what we have to the German Development Bank, then we see that the debt situation on 31 March 2017 is increased, it is 7,253 by 6,951. All of this represents, to see what trends we live in, what trends and what they bring. The state of guarantee of the Republic of Serbia on 31 March 2017, Elektroprivreda, if we turn it into millions of euros, is 378m euros, an indirect obligation of the Republic of Serbia. If we look at the EMS, change it, they're not a public company, they're a stock company, in these forms of yours, they kept it at 41.1m euros. So the Republic of Serbia owes more than 2.25 billion euros with guarantees. Another very interesting fact is that since 2012, commitments under the guarantee from the Republic of Serbia to the EPS of 184.5m euros have increased to these 378m euros, which also suggests some trend. It's very interesting for the public and the government to know the cost of public debt service. I'd like you to pay attention, quote the data the Treasury has. You see, the cost of public debt service from January 1st to March 31st, 2017, looks like this. When it comes to government securities issued on the domestic market, liabilities based on the principal, that's 930 billion dinars and interest 27 comas something. So only about a third of the capital was paid for the interest. It's a very interesting thing. Germany's main development bank was given 47,5 and interest-based 1.7. It's an interesting thing about the euro bond, we didn't pay anything based on the principal, but we gave 12,566 million based on interest, and if we look at the foreign debt, direct liabilities for the first three months, we paid four billion dinars more than the principal. Very interesting and good indicator of what's going on with our public finances. Interestingly, as far as the debt is concerned, our obligations in dinars are 20% of the total public debt, the euro of 40%, the dollar 33%. Very, very interesting indicators suggest that you should be very careful when you think about direct and indirect borrowing. Just to draw attention to the fact that, on the basis of the paper issued from the value of 31.3.2017, our obligations in this month are 138m euros and 16.7 billion, which is for June, for May, the month is 20 billion 520m dinars and 100m euros. Anyone who's growing this data will see that this borrowing takes on alarming currents and that everything comes at a charge. Let me say it one more time so it won't be forgotten, I'm reading official data. The government found a state of public debt there about July 2012 of 15,469 billion euros, and on 31 March this year, the state of debt is 24.5 billion euros. You, by the rule of broadcasting paper of value, need to deprive yourself. I also have data on the rate movement, also on something that's very unfavourable. Now, if we take these first two laws, I just remind you that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, or the World Bank, has approved a loan, a 14.5.3m-euro deposit insurance project, and this is in the column of a direct commitment to abroad, which means that these are direct obligations of the Republic of Serbia, are not indirect obligations. And if on that basis we pay some interest you talked about at the beginning, then it is the obligation of the Republic of Serbia, not the Deposit Insurance Agency, because the Republic of Serbia has purposely taken the loan to resuscitate the Deposit Insurance Agency, which in 2012 ran out of capital. Why? Because of Agrobanka, Vojvodine Development Banka, University Banka, First Belgrade Banka, SDPR Banka, not to tell you what it was, but then you strengthened the Postage Savings Bank, so you gave it much more property and so the agency ran out of capital. The deposit insurance agency provides 14.5 billion euros in deposits for natural persons, micro, macro and medium-sized enterprises. So, 14.5 billion euros in total deposits are secured, quarterly, banks are paying 21m euros in security, to ensure that if the bank goes into bankruptcy on the day of the bankruptcy, the deadlines in which the agency is due to resuscitate also the depositors. Now that's where two jobs connect. One job is the agency, the primary task of providing funds through the premium to the Deposit Insurance Fund, to some standard of 0.8% and if you have designed 5%, and if you adhere to that 2014 EU directive, but through this intervention in the law, where the foreign currency of the Deposit Insurance Fund is placed in debt charters of the value of the paper issued by the Republic of Serbia is the wrong move. Those mobile assets that need to be closed down, calm down the situation on the banking market, the depositors die, because every bankruptcy causes panic, why not say so, you intend through this law to engage for a relatively long period of time in state charters of values that serve to fill the budget deficit and for some capital investments. I don't think you can do that. Then, the Deposit Insurance Agency has its deposit accounts at the National Bank of Serbia. The National Bank of Serbia is a foreign exchange commissioner in the fund, and by this law you allow the commissioner to issue securities of value and to make the buyer his agent, the commissioner. In one way, the situation of missing funds is covered up here, so before you're in business, I don't say you're specific, but in some earlier period in 2007, 11.8 million dinars have been lost by the agency in the value of paper dealing, the highest quality banks, the German central bank, the foreign currency deposit is about, or the depositing of funds from the Deposit Insurance Fund for the purchase of securities from value, also the debt-debted German state. You've now made us one story, negative interest rates, but you misrepresented it. These are interest payments on what you're in charge of at the World Bank, and here by law you've presented, if the foreign exchange funds are being placed on some foreign exchange account, as a deposit, and there's a fine deposit with negative interest rates, so that that damage doesn't happen, let's invest it in government securities of value, so you've opened up another topic. How is it possible that the biggest profit is made through the trading of debt charters from the value issued by the Republic of Serbia? What about our banking system? So, 14.5 billion euros in deposits, what savings, what deposits and how many depositors? So 50,000, 100,000, what is the bill, 10, 15, 20,000, and all of these are the questions to be answered. Unfortunately, in the light of these four draft laws, there are none, I have to say, answers that could in some way explain what I read, which is official data, that's your data. You're here complaining about bad business. I was just quoting you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16298	The word is made by MP Ivan Karic, Balša Bozovic, Goran Kovacevic. Goran Kovacevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16299	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, there are four laws on the agenda today. These four laws can actually be divided into two sets. The two laws concern the Deposit Insurance Agency and two laws concern credit lines for the functioning of enterprises owned by the Republic of Serbia. Although these laws seem to be quite different, it is true. The two laws are part of the financial sector, i.e. the functioning of banks, i.e. deposit insurance, and the two are part of the economy. Basically, these two laws, these four laws, these two sets of laws have one basis. It's about changes that, above all, have arisen in the financial sector. In the financial sphere, there is a basis why we are passing these four laws. Although they appear to be different, their base is at different interest rates. The Deposit Insurance Agency shall be the Agency that collects the financial resources and, pursuant to Article 8. The agency law, she says, means that the financial resources found in the dinar value must be directed, i.e. to be directed towards charters of values printed by the National Bank or the Republic of Serbia, but not referred to as foreign funds. The problem arises when we in law define that these funds should be used on financial markets in the world. In 2008, we had no such problem with foreign exchange funds, or with deposit insurance. When the reference interest rate at the six-month level was 5.5%, respectively, at three months 5.4%, at a month of 5.24%, we did not have a deposit problem, i.e. first-class securities from the values found in foreign banks, but in 2009, the problem began to arise because the reference interest rate began to fall rapidly. The peak was reached on 13 October 2008, in 2009 you already have a reference interest rate in the eurobor at 1,08 and 0.4, respectively. In 2015, in January of the month, the eurobor is going to go down at the monthly level, and by the end of 2015, the six-month eurobor is down. If you respect the law, and you have to respect it, respecting the law on agencies, securing deposits, you have to invest in such institutions. This means that since 2015, i.e. the Deposit Insurance Agency, i.e. the National Bank, which is the committee, which collects financial resources, and for the interest of the Insurance Agency, we place them, we achieve a negative interest rate on the financial resources that we have raised under the Deposit Insurance Agency. These financial assets are negative and we're just starting to lose. That is why today this law means that we change our decision and allow the National Bank, or the Deposit Insurance Agency, to be able to place its financial resources on the domestic market, or to buy documents of value printed by the National Bank or the Republic of Serbia. The reference rate in Serbia is 4% today. What appears to be and what appears to be the bonds we issue in 2016 are completed at an interest rate of 2%. At this point, we will not make it possible and there will be no loss of core capital operating in this way. What's the point, if you look at this law that we're changing, we say that this measure only lasts until the moment that there's a negative interest on the world's financial markets. Our problem today is not a dollar, because at this point, thanks to the interest of the Fed, which is growing and moving to about 1%, we're slowly coming out of negative interest rates in dollars, but we're staying at negative interest rates in euro. As Serbia is in the euro area, as we continue to move on to the EU, we are practically having a problem with financial resources in the euro, which is in the Deposit Insurance Agency. As we have a low interest rate problem, which is the historical precedent, or what's happening now will never happen again. This simultaneous reason for the decision-making of these two previous laws is, in my opinion, a key reason for these two credit lines. The bottom line, I think, is the fact that we take these two loans at a fixed interest rate of 0.8%. Current inflation in the eurozone has gone 0.2% over the past two months and has reached 1.9% from 1.7%. The Central Bank of Europe predicted an inflation of 2%. If you take the costs of 0.75 that are fixed and 0.25 that are assets that we don't withdraw, we and the interest rate that is fixed are below the inflation zone. In conditions like this, when these are historic precedents, borrowing is a natural thing. We're not talking about EPS here today. When we talk about these laws, we are talking about guarantees that the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Serbian Parliament, gives for borrowing. It's about guarantees that have a complete basis in both laws. If you look at Article 4 you will see that in the second paragraph we have made it clear – if there is a problem in paying off loans, we will automatically, essentially, block the accounts of these two municipal public enterprises, i.e. the networks of Serbia and Elektroprivreda and charge from those accounts, which they did not charge on the basis of the principal, interest and other costs resulting from the taking of these loans. Practically, these two debts, these two credit lines are completely financial neutral, as far as the Republic of Serbia's budget is concerned. We also planned for the 2017 budget, fully provided Article 4(2) that there will be no cost in the Republic of Serbia's budget, will be in the functioning of public enterprises, not entering the technique and the reasons why we are taking these loans. It is clear to all of us that these two key loans that allow in their segments of operation are better functioning of these two companies. First of all, in the area of Elektroprivreda, it means that people in Obrenovac will have better quality conditions for life. But it's a more significant power grid. Switching voltage from 220 to 400 kilowatts is the future of functioning Serbia's power grid. The ring that is created, which implies practically this loan only to fill the gaps that need to be filled, will enable the functioning of the power grid and the entire energy sector of the future to be fully different. I completely agree with the minister who says that EPS is a big, difficult and complicated story. But everyone forgets that EPS is a huge developmental opportunity and many people today in Serbia forget to say that the product produced by EPS is as competitive as the rare product in Serbia at a market match in Europe in its function as a performance. The EPS will be a difficult problem. It's going to be a problem while it's working, because it's been such a system since it was built, but the shifts have been visible since 2012, when we've had a charge of 80 percent, up to 95 percent, in the distribution process, in the area of production, in the area of the network, all of this goes forward. The four laws, in fact, are laws that show that the Serbian government reacts when there is a problem, if it is due not to its functioning but to global economic conditions it reacts to solve these problems. When there's a chance he'll be in charge of a low-priced loan, he'll take advantage of it. What's a little bit of a privilege is that today you have more expensive loans in dollars, cheaper in euros. In euros, the situation will come to an end very quickly in a year, a year and a half to make financial resources more expensive. I remind you that inflation in Europe is growing, as inflation increases, and indicators say that GDP is growing, rising and reducing the unemployment rate, there is no need for cheap money. This is the time to be in charge. Of course, the Serbian Parliament is there to support the government of the Republic of Serbia and this is an example, these four laws, namely a set of two by two laws, say that it is rapidly, operationally responding to the goal, in terms of functioning and economic progress in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16300	The word has a minister, Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16301	Thank you very much. It's kind of uninteresting for me to repeat the public debt data, but I have to, seeing as we don't have a proper understanding of these sizes, and I think it's very important that I mention it. You listed and you instructed a bunch of facts, which are quoted from some report, but the conclusion is not correct. When you underline the line, when you add it all up, when you take into account the effects of certain forms of borrowing, when you consider the effects of changing currency rates that we don't control, the situation is the following. On December 31st, 24,800,000 euros, the equivalent in euros, not the euro debt situation, has been converted to euro. On March 31st, 24,500,000. In fact, the figure was reduced by 300,000 exactly for the payment of the Social General loan, from 290 million and some million. It knows exactly which transaction led to a reduction. In the period from March 31st to April 30th, I quoted it as saying at our previous session, there was a further reduction to 24.150,000, and this reduction was the result of some of the papers and loans received and changes in course. The latest data – with today, to inform you, 23 billion and 900, will be published in a few days. Officially 23 billion and 900, exclusively due to a change of course. So, the course went to hand and now we're below 24 billion. Trend is positive. Is the level of debt high? Yes, it is. And that's what we fight for. Is the trend right? Yes, it is. Do we have an extension of the loan? It goes on, which is good. Are we losing interest? They're reducing, including this loan. You calculated well, 182 million but at 0.7%, but these are different loans. Those were free funds that we didn't increase our debt to, but so far, we'll be paying off with that loan. So, after the ratification that's been done, we're going to get what's called the so-called. Legal opinion and after that, we will withdraw the funds and we can pay them all the obligations that we feel we should pay with that debt. So at 0.7%, we're going to pay off some liabilities where we're currently paying 5%, 6%, and we're going to pay 1.2 million a year for 182 million instead of 10, 11 or 12 million, as we pay today. Costs are down 10 to one. The debt will not change for the euro either, but the cost will decrease. Secondly, as far as the instruments are concerned, you said well, we all know that we have mostly three currencies here -- dinars, 20%, Euros, over 40%, $35%, the rest are yen, Swiss francs, etc., which are little things, we're taking them to dinars all together, cumulatively. There's no dilemma. What are the instruments? And that's where you said everything, except I don't see any reason to be confused. We're ready to do a special session, I've already offered that before, and we'll go through the complete materials. So there are records of value where there's no going back until the moment she gets to sleep, there's no paying for the principal, it's paid at the moment of maturity. You mentioned a 20.5 billion figure, absolutely correct. But she was refinanced yesterday, at the same rate that we refinanced the previous ones. So it's a paper that's been issued, we pay interest, it comes to that day, we've had more than enough demand and we've refinanced 20.5 billion at a better interest rate than before, not as much as we got from the World Bank, 5.6%. So without a change in interest rate, we had enough liquidity on the market to refinance it. That didn't affect the debt. We got one back, we picked up as much money, and we refinanced it. So it's a complex math, it's a complex structure, but that's life. Finally, the guarantees that go around the world towards the likelihood that these guarantees are fragmented, with us, from the precaution of our credit rating that is still not what it might be, lead as if 100% would be charged. So what we're discussing today, which is these two loans, about the measurement of these loans to the judge of the profession, the judge of the sector, we're providing funding, and they're saying whether the impregnation is the correct project, whether the completion of the network is the correct project, etc. Make sure KFW has 10 times more demand for its loans than it can finance. So we're in a privileged position here to have them give us extremely favourable resources and it's up to us to choose projects, to define them in the right way, to achieve the development and structural goals that they give us. They give us both water and energy, etc. We have the quality of the projects, we have the willingness to implement it, and they give us favourable conditions. I think what we approve today is a new task, but the project and will be recorded as a debt only when those funds are withdrawn, not before that. And service when it starts, in three years in the ESM case and five years in the EPS case, will be much less than the average debt price we have today. Therefore, if we achieve the effect we expect in the real part, then we also have a real improvement in energy and service that is much more favourable than average or anything else. I don't know how a man can, but on the sidelines, make things better, step by step. So you're absolutely right. Long is a bad friend. Yeah, if you don't give the effects. So if we borrow this money, if we throw away this 182 million, and we're doing everything we can not throw away, on the contrary, it's a bad friend. If we borrow money and they're standing there, plus that 0.25% intercal interest is a cost, then it's a question of us and it's not a question of who's funding it. It's a matter of sectors and our readiness. Let's talk about it. But that's right. So that's right, reporting on project status, that's the right way and answer to your dilemma, not to take. Because we simply can't, all the countries at our level of development borrow foreign batteries. Finally, the dilemma about what's going on with the Deposit Insurance Agency. You've listed some things well. The sources of risk are known here. So, the Agency has lost its basic fund, which it is, has the character of insurance. She stayed because we were forced to intervene in the situation when many banks got into trouble. And we've completely exhausted it. And then the state, due to financial stability, because of the stability of the entire system, where you requote 14 and a half billion correctly, not counting all other indirect effects, said -- it was in our interest to borrow funds, to plant the backs and borrow 0.7% of the World Bank's funds, and that it, it's called "he landing", it gave them to the Deposit Insurance Agency, but it took on debt. According to abroad, the state is in debt, not the Agency. The Agency will service it from its incomes. The agency owes us 0.7% of the money that the state will transfer directly, without charge of anything, to the World Bank when it does. What's going on now? Since these are money that are not intended for consumption, but are intended as a reserve, they stand, under the quote in cash, in cash and usually we deposited that money at the expense of the National Bank, this time for the account and for the benefit of the AOD, the Deposit Insurance Agency, which held it, as you have accounts at your sight, so did they. And the National Bank usually placed it with all the other foreign reserves she had. It was usually given a small interest rate, it was placed through a very limited number of the highest credit rating institutions that offered both liquidity and some contribution. And given the circumstances, which we don't control, that contribution to that positioning is now negative. Since the AOD, the National Bank has different placements and on average it has some negative interest, but since it's being taken into account here when it's placed, the AOD on the 145 million, you said correctly, has a negative income, which they have no place to cover, except to take the money that commercial banks pay as new insurance. Commercial banks say -- well, wait, you said you were helping us, and now you charge us both 0.7% and a negative rate on this main. So that seems paradoxical, but it's still a situation that rarely happens in history. You have negative interest rates on deposits as seen. In other words, if there were no element of the risk, we would say, "Well, let it stand in cash on the floor of the National Bank, and we will leave to guard on duty." Do you understand? There's no point in paying. They calculated 600,000 euros per period. I can tell you the numbers, but let's not overload all the numbers. We have the numbers, we can give you the exact numbers. The bottom line is that since the state has already accepted this debt and since that level of risk has already occurred, let's say that these banks where our central bank is placing foreign reserves and are holding, among other things, our debt, most of them, such as Deutsche Bank and others, have more of our securities than they have foreign reserves. After all, our debt is 24 billion, and foreign exchange reserves are tens of billions. So we have 2.4 times as much debt as we have foreign reserves. It's a good relationship, but it's still a much bigger amount. Therefore, we pay the Deutsche Bank not only interest on the securities of our values they hold, but we also pay 0.5%-0.6% on the reserve cash. That's for us, what the people would say, twice as naked right now. We just want to, we don't order anyone here, this law to allow the Deposit Insurance Agency to see in such a situation with the National Bank, with the Government whether it's opportunized, not changing the level of risk, that they place that money and that they don't disrupt their relationship. In addition to this amount, there is a reserve loan, the second, which is not withdrawn at all, which is in liquidity form, which is an IBRD loan, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is the second half of that compensation of the Deposit Insurance Agency, so that they will be able to withdraw this, even if this is placed, for example, once a year, by charters or in the short term by some instruments. They'll be able to count on more than half the amount. I hope it won't be necessary, but if necessary, it will. In other words, we do something that is useful, maintains the level of risk, reduces the expenditures of the Deposit Insurance Agency and allows it to go beyond that. Let me warn you, this is all a temporary solution because there is such an international situation and because the state has a big stake in the Insurance Agency, or the Deposit Insurance Fund. That moment, and now you've quoted one exact number again, but you haven't told the whole story until the end, we've gone from some number, but within seven, eight years, we're going to get to that ceiling where commercial banks, paying off this insurance, provided there's no new breakdown and withdrawal, and then we're going to say -- well, now we don't have to, now the state can pay off. They will gradually pay off this loan, not to add new to it, and that God gives health, in 10, 15 years we will be in a situation that commercial banks will be entirely behind the Deposit Insurance Fund with their donations based on the value of savings deposits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16302	Minister Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16303	First of all, I would like to thank the MPs at the debates, Mrs Paunović, Mrs Filipovski and Mr Kovacevic, who, with great care, have recognised the importance of these two projects, which are the subject of today's agenda points, relating to the loans that are at stake. I have to point out what Mr. Kovacevic was talking about. First of all, I absolutely agree, and I am fully convinced that energy represents one of the greatest opportunities in Serbia, but we must have one full consensus about it and that we have one absolute awareness of where we are and how the processes are taking place. Dear gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Serbia has approximately 4,054 megawatt fixed forces in the thermo-capacity and 2,920 forces installed in the hydro-capacity. The last facilities were built "Block B2" in the "Kostolc" force 316 megawatts and "Hydropower plant" Pirot force 80 megawatts in 1991 and 1992. Ludi, for 25 years we as a state, as a society, as a "Electro-priority of Serbia", but we didn't all build anything together. In the meantime, production is growing. In 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, and in 2005, production was at 30,000 gvh. It grows every year. We came to 2016, when it was 36,000 gwh, but we didn't build anything new. So we're doing it on the edge of a razor blade. It's a tight system. I am a politician, like most of you, but by force, I had to enter the smallest details of this in order to be able in a basic way, politely to drive this system in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and this Assembly that chose me at the end of the day. In the winter days our production goes daily, i.e. consumption, consumption goes daily and over 130, 140 gwh. We heat the sector when it works at full capacity, that day it can't throw out 100. If hydrology isn't phenomenal, and usually during that winter period it's not phenomenal, we don't have enough power. So we don't have a fully balanced system, and that's why we're importing parts of the year, exporting parts of the year. I'm very happy that in the last year we've exported more than we've imported. I read you the data, they're absolutely exact. In just over a year, the plus EPS is more than 30m euros. But in order for this to be a serious chance, we need to get into a new investment cycle. We have to preserve this manufacturing plant that we have now, and that's why we have to do the ashing of Tent A because people, Tent A, is 1,750 megawatts. So we have to keep that 1,750. To keep them safe, we have to invest and we have to build new ones. This government is building "Costolac B". Thank you to the previous government that was working on the first phase of the "Kostolec B", which was the revitalisation of "Kostolec B1 and B2", but now we are doing B3 350 megawatts, the first major project. At the time of this government, it was put on a network of 80 megawatts from renewables. At this point in a different phase of construction is located between 400 and 500 megawatts from renewables. I'm saying that's not enough and that we need more, first of all, from hydro capacity, maybe something from gas, first of all to balance the system, because when we get this much capacity from renewables, we have to balance it. That is why we expect great support from this Assembly, which when it criticises, perhaps in part and rightly criticises, but must fully understand that we need a new investment policy and a new investment cycle in order to precisely achieve such goals that all of us together would be satisfied at the end of the day. I want to thank my colleague Krasic, who had one serious analysis, but did not tang these laws that I am doing here to help my colleague, Vujovic, from the domain of the resort. Thank you, too, for quoting Prime Minister Vukadinovic. I must say, it was a good, quality part of your discussion. I need to give you an answer why credit. People, no one funds such things from their own, let's say, the cash of the fleet, from their current liquidity, especially when they have a chance to take a good loan, with a good grace period, a low interest rate, that's what they all do. There are also in power here, and in opposition, people who were serious directors, serious systems, and I don't think I need to elaborate and prove it. Why the transmission? I repeat, in light of the trans-Balkan corridor, in light of the cable that will go between Montenegro and Italy, I think it is a strategic matter. I hope that all those who sometimes experience this political bickering as 5%, and 95% is the serious part of our political life and work, understand what's strategic about it. In the end, I really wouldn't want us to be a congregation in different conspiracy theories. Why from KFW? Well, first of all, KFW, when at least my ecletrossist is a serious lender, but he's not the most significant. For example, when it comes to EPS, today we're withdrawing 45 million from KFW, and the last serious loan we've been doing, investment, was from China's Exim Bank 608 million dollars. So these are completely different dimensions. These 15 million, when it comes to EMS, is really a small amount compared to the quality of the company. It's a company that really works in line with best business practice. It has the lowest possible level, that debt to the EBD, and it's really funny to look at it that way. Please don't make those conspiracy theories. No one plans privatisation or part of the energy system. Speaking of conspiracy theories, I want to add one of yours, just to make you more interesting, you made that parallel, Mr. Grcic, whom I think really great energy has devoted to the work of EPS, Mr. Greek, the director of EPS, before that was the director of "Colubare". I have a third moment for you to complete the conspiracy theory. He's from Obrenovac. Then you circled the entire system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-18-0.u16304	Thank you. As I have not extended my working hours, we will be finished today, as the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group remains more time than we have until 18.00 hours. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. The first speaker is Milorad Mircic. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. On the basis of the official record, 91 MPs have registered. To determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the e-system MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall. We're going back to work. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. You have 12 minutes and 57 seconds. Here you go.
