ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-0.u18750	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am opening the 11th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. This special session, pursuant to Article 119(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have called for the oath of elected persons who, in accordance with the law, take an oath before the National Assembly. I remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the session of the Third Extraordinary Session in the 11th session, held on 20 July 2017, selected Professor Dr. Pavel Petrovic as Chairman of the Fiscal Council, Prof. Vladimir Vukkovic and Dr. Nikola Altiparmak, as members of the Fiscal Council, and Mr. Zoran Pasalic for the Protector of Citizens. I remind you, too, that article 92b. Article 4 The budget system law found that, after the election, the members of the Fiscal Council took an oath before the National Assembly and Article 7(2). The Law on the Protector of Citizens has been found to swear an oath before the National Assembly. Accordingly, I call first on the members of the Fiscal Council, Prof. Dr. Pavel Petrovic, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Vukkovic and Dr. Nikola Altiparmak, to approach to take the oath. (The President reads the text of the oaths, the elected members of the Fiscal Council repeat the text of the oaths:) "I pledge my allegiance to the Republic of Serbia. I promise to respect the constitution and the laws. I swear to honor my duty to do my duty independently, honestly and to the well-being of the current and future generations" I ask the Presidents and members of the Fiscal Council to sign the text of the oath. (The members of the Fiscal Council sign the text of the oath. Thank you. On behalf of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and on my personal behalf, I congratulate you on your choice and wish you successful work. I now call upon the Protector of Citizens, Mr. Zoran Pasalic, to approach and take the oath. (The President reads the text of the oaths, and the elected Citizens' Protector repeats the text of the oaths. "I swear to do my duty responsibly, unbiasedly and independently, in accordance with the constitution and the law and that I will work consciously to protect and improve human rights and freedom. “ I ask the Protector to sign the text of the oath. (The Protector of the Citizens signs the text of the oath. ) I also thank you, on behalf of the MPs, for your own sakes, let me congratulate you once again on your choice and wish you happy and good work for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you. Dear MPs, I hereby conclude the 11th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Thank you.
