ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21456	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Please first listen to the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Intonating the hymns. ) Allow me to welcome, on behalf of the National Assembly, members of the British Group Delegation at the Interparliamentary Union, who are following today’s session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the House of the National Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 118 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. He's showing me a few MPs here that their cards aren't right. I'm asking the services to check what this is all about, to allow us to register all MPs. Branislav Blazic went out to replace the card. Who else? Two-minute break, let's see if they can let us know if there's a problem in the system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 129 MPs are present in the hall, and that we have conditions for continuing work. [[after breaks]] Does one of the presidents, or authorised representatives, want his right to use Article 287? The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21457	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask one question to three top state officials, President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic – why did the state authorities not react because of the anti-Serbian move of the EU representation in Belgrade, which was published by the book "European mosaic", author Gediminas Vitcus? It's from some of these Baltic, call it, the statesman there, who is extremely anti-Serb character. The events of the 1990s, the author observes through the Croatian prism. Croatia is a victim, Serbs are aggressors. This book shows what the EU thinks of us. If, God forbid, we would be admitted there to be a country of second order, a country that serves as a demeanor, a country that can constantly be exposed to certain demands, such as territorial ones by Croatia, such as requests for compensation for war damage, etc. Among other things, the author for Ivo Andric says he is a Croatian writer. Another lie he had probably heard in Belgrade, that Tesla once said he was proud of his Serbian background and Croatian homeland. Nikola Tesla never said that. It's that bastard, Sava Kosanovic, Tesla's nephew, who was a servant of the communist regime invented after Tesla died. Nowhere in Tesla's files is there, nowhere in the memory of the contemporaries, anywhere in the press, anywhere in any media. He only invented Sava Kosanovic a few years after Tesla died for the needs of the communist regime. The author here lists only Croatian victims in the civil war, talks about Serbian criminals and the author shows, in fact, that a new history is written according to the EU's prescription. We need to make some more moves. You've seen what the political representatives of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia suggest. The greatest Croatian writer of all time, Miroslav Krleža, mocked not only those two states, but also their peoples between the two world wars with his novel about brilliance. It also refers to Lithuania, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia. He best presented this character to them, of course not far away from Croatian character either, but Krleža did not want to go that far. The Banket in Blit remained one of its best works, which is read with pleasure today. I have to admit it as an acquaintance of both Serbian and world literature. The three states' political representatives are constantly threatening Serbia, pressured, demanding that Serbia seduce Russia's sanctions. Of course, that Serbia must not impose sanctions on Russia at any cost, but the highest state authorities of Serbia, the President of the Republic, the Government and the Foreign Ministry should pressure Russia to abolish the artificial independence of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia because they have made both God and man sick. In Lithuania, 20% of the Russians live, in Latvia and Estonia more than 50% of the Russians, but half of the Russian citizens have still not recognised their right to citizenship. So, if anyone deserves to stop existing in the international and legal order, then it's Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia and our state authorities that should require Russia to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21458	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Natasha Micic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21459	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will refer the questions to the Prime Minister. In view of the fact that we have insufficient GDP growth as well as data from the Republic Statistics Institute, which refers to 2015, and as regards the percentage of the risk of poverty, and it is very high for that year, it is 41.3% and that in this most vulnerable group from 18 to 24, I ask the question, is the Government, do the Prime Minister intend to adopt a strategy to combat poverty? I would point out that the last such strategy was adopted in 2002 during the government of Zoran Djindjic and it was one of the three key objectives of the 2001 reform programme. The first was the modernisation of the state, the rule of law and the fight against corruption. The second objective was to revitalise the economy with economic reforms, market reform and the third fight against corruption. In the meantime, since 2002, governments have been replaced from Social Democrats to People's, and it is very simple and unusual that someone who belongs to the liberal current is asking one such question. I think it's very important that the government prepare such a strategy. The second question concerns the Law on the Origin of Property of Politicians, i.e. the Law on the Origin of Assets. I would remind you that the previous Prime Minister has promised in his exposé that the law will be prepared and addressed to the Assembly. In the meantime, we also got a new Prime Minister, and the truth is, she didn't even mention the question. So I'm interested in when this law comes to congregation procedure to avoid the inconclusive arguments of a guy getting money from his aunt in Canada to buy an apartment? The third question, I also refer to the Prime Minister, on the basis of which former President of the Republic Tomislav Nikolic uses the residence in Užička 23rd because according to the Regulation on the immovableities of the Republic of Serbia, it is intended to be used only for the president of the Republic of the current one? So that's one precedent, and it's really embarrassing, especially considering the first question I asked, and it concerns a high percentage of poor people, and we know that Tomislav Nikolic is not at risk, that he owns a huge apartment, as if one of the apartments had also won during NATO bombing. So, I'm interested in explaining to us MPs, and the citizens are pretty upset about this news and the irrational spending on residence funds used by an ex-president.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21460	Thank you. The word has a national emissary Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21461	At the third extraordinary session, I asked three questions, got one answer. I would like to thank the finance minister, Mr Vujovic, for his reply. I remind Minister Zoran Trivan that the ministry means respect for the assembly, and therefore I expect an answer to the question about Belarica. Ignoring the comprehensive issue that I asked the prime minister, the current mayor of Belgrade, and, of course, to the unforgiving president of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, the progenitor of the idea of Belgrade on water, I am recasting it in line with the current developments in Belgrade. The water contract obliges Serbia to develop a complete primary infrastructure necessary for a comprehensive project up to two million square metres by December 2019. This includes, among other things, the completion of the sewerage Interceptor, the completion of the wastewater treatment plant in the Great Village, the construction of the first line of the subway without which it is impossible to resolve the water traffic for Belgrade, the construction of a tunnel under the tersian reef from the Sava Venec to Dorcool, one bridge on the Sava and one bridge on the Danube near Vinca, the construction of four railway stations in downtown Belgrade, in Zemun, Makiš and Karaburma, the expansion and protection of the water drive in Makiš, because Belgrade on the water needs 25 million litres of water per day. Clearly, this much work is not possible for the remaining two years, because nothing has started yet. It is clear that this is all Serbia's obligation. In a contract with an Arab partner in the event of failure to fulfil the contractual obligation, the Arab partner has the right to launch arbitration before the Court of Justice in Vienna for the denial of the planned profits. My question is: why does the city administration deal with children's games and cosmetic interventions in the capital, a real music fountain, a mast over masts, surface and only visible changes in the traffic infrastructure, instead of heating apartments turn on New Year's lighting, a new non-transparent capital contract for the Vinca dump, instead of dealing with serious, already undertaken obligations and real needs of Belgrade? Disrespect for these obligations will be paid by more generations of Serbian citizens, and therefore these pre-election spells will cost us very much. A question for the minister of construction, traffic and infrastructure, Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic. Mrs. Mihajlovic recently said in public that as far as she is concerned, Corridor 10 is over. What does a statement like this even mean? Corridor 10 is not even her idea, let alone her property to make such unserious statements. It's a big lie that Corridor 10 is and close to ending up on the disputed stake through the Gredile ravine. This could be confirmed if fellow MPs, who are from those parts of Serbia, too. Why not give Serbian citizens fellow MPs from those parts the right information about the degree of completion of the work on Corridor 10, I leave them on their conscience. Visiting Corridor 10, not as a random tourist on the way to the sea, but as a Member of the Parliament's Club of Independent MPs who directly collect data on the ground, I have concluded the following – a section of Grdelica – Caricina Valley, Vladic's Han, as the minister said – as far as I and a team of serious engineers who went along with me have visited the course of this section, will not be fully realised for a minimum of two years from a serious dynamic plan of realization. In fact, it means that all the deadlines that have been given so far by Minister Mihajlovic and other politicians have been the fruit of unrealistic estimates and the deception of Serbian citizens. For the last five years, we've been hearing excuses about the hardest stock in Europe's history, shares through the Gredile ravine. The stock demand can't be an excuse for being late, because capable builders can do anything, especially if they get adequate compensation for it. Comparative analyses work, the most difficult section of the highway through Montenegro from Smokovica to Matešev, which passes through the Morac Canyon, are 41km long, considered the most demanding part of Europe, along the length of tunnels, bridges, support walls. Construction on this section began in May 2015 and currently more than 50% of works are realised, according to the dynamics that include, among other things, 2,200 construction workers during the month. This route will be completed in the next two years. How is it possible that the stock through the globular ravine, 26.1 km long, isn't finished yet? I expect the exact answer from Minister Zorana Mihajlovic – who is responsible for the delay in the work on Corridor 10? Construction is easily proven guilty. A series of participants in the realization form – designer, performer, supervision, investor. Is there some unreachable reason why the culprit is not named and protected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21462	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21463	Thank you. I have a few questions, I hope. The first question is for the State Department. I don't know if the Ministry has been informed, but I do know that nothing has been done about the fact that this year's class of members of the Military Academy in Croatia has also had a group of pitomatists from Kosovo. This was announced by Croatian President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic himself. Given that we are present very often and very much these days, I would say to the sharp demarcations and protests of Croatia over various events in Serbia, here, the other day in connection with the monument, Major Tepic, that the Croatian government has filed a sharp protest against our embassy, that is, our ambassador. I ask – does our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, under a, knows; under b, does it intend to do or react in any way to the fact that the group, therefore, of the Kosovo pitomatists, according to the president, needs to determine the actual situation, attend the Military Academy in Croatia? I think it has a basis, at least for one protest, if not for something more. Otherwise, I think that our diplomacy, although it has shown some signs of energy lately, should be much more frequent and much more determined to respond to different types and examples of injury and humiliation, I would say both the states of Serbia and the endangerment of our sovereignty and state dignity. The second question, even shorter, refers to the Justice Ministry, which I expect the answer to, the final answer to the case of weapons in the Lambs. Given that this case has caused serious disturbances and public disturbances, it has been said for days, how has this weapon been aimed at assassinations, to the highest government officials? I think that, above all, the Ministry of Justice and the MUP are obliged to give one comprehensive information to the citizens of Serbia on this matter, regardless of what the findings of the investigation were. The next issue goes to the address of the president of the Republic, Aleksandr Vucic, and it really concerns clarifications, as last week's "Requestor" programme mentioned in one context the possibility of accepting Kosovo, i.e. Kosovo getting a chair in the UN. Of course, sometimes words can be taken out of context in conversation. I do not want to say at all here, nor to claim that the President of the Republic has expressed his willingness to accept that Serbia has a chair in the UN, but I want to say loudly and loudly and expect that kind of clarification from that place, that the UN chair for Kosovo is equal to or equivalent to recognising Kosovo's independence. So no one has the right to play this way, and not even as a hypothetical opportunity to mention acceptance or reconciliation with Kosovo getting a chair in the UN. The last question goes to the address of our leadership. I asked that question last week, the Head of the Assembly. I have asked, the parliamentary deadline has not yet expired, the information on the penalties imposed during this call, and how many of these penalties have gone to the expense of opposition MPs, how many MPs of the ruling coalition? Meanwhile, the media released one piece of information, I don't know if it's true, and I suppose it is, that a total of 46 fines has been imposed. Of these 46 fines, only two were granted, i.e. to the representatives of the government and 44 representatives of the opposition. Even though no one is guilty or innocent, we are all responsible for the situation in this Assembly and I am quite certain that this proportion of not 5%, so less than 5% of the fines is given to the representatives of the government, and over 95% of the representatives of the opposition, that this information best speaks about, I would say, motherly, not to say any other word, a relationship that the presidency has, above all, towards the MPs, which I think is very bad. Yesterday we had a chance, listening to the Greek president, after a long time, and even today at this ceremony, to feel proud to be Members of the people and some kind of pleasure, but that pride very rarely occurs and very rarely we have an opportunity for that kind of pleasure, given the atmosphere that, of course, we all make here and we all have to try to make it better. So, not to build an academic club or a library of the Assembly, but still to run in the spirit of a tolerant and democratic dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21464	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21465	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, I ask the question of Prime Minister Ani Brnabic and Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Mr Ruzic, and the question is why has not already been introduced or when temporary measures will be introduced in the municipality of Vladimirci, because of the conditions they have acquired there and because of the inability for the government to function normally there. Namely, the DRI carried out the control of the financial business and the Vladimirci municipality's report and therefore ordered SO Vladimirci to act on the orders of DRI and the replacement of Miodrag Milinkovic, president of the Vladimirci municipality, due to severe violations of the rules, criminal actions, corruption and non-compliance under the law. Some of these things are invalid accounting documentation, procurement without public procurement, incorrect display of current account status and many other rough irregularities. Since the municipality's assembly failed to comply with the DRI, the National Assembly, this House where we sit, also received a notice on August 15th on the determination of requirements for taking action and the resolution of the responsible person in the municipality of Vladimirci, the president of the municipality of Miodrag Milinkovic. So, the DRI ordered the transfer of the president of the municipality of Vladimirci and says – a request was submitted for the resolution of the responsible person, the president of the municipality of Vladimirci Miodrag Milinkovic as necessary in the given situation and in order to protect the interests of local self-government citizens. Since this has not yet been implemented, I ask the competent institutions when will this problem be resolved and when will elections in the Vladimirs be called after the forced administration? To make things worse, we have parallel institutions there. At the moment the Assembly wanted to decide at the request of the state auditor, a number of MPs left the hall, and one continued to work, so the new president, SO Vladimirci, was elected, so today we have two. The new assembly sent a request to the then state administration minister, today's Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, to respond to what authorities are now valid. On 7 September 2016, the Ministry of State Administration, and then Minister Ana Brnabic, signed that a new assembly, or new decision to elect a new president, is absolutely valid and they have the right and can continue to work. However, this did not happen in practice. It's still the old president of the So-Isramans who runs the So-Isramans. So we have one confusion and one condition that is unsustainable. I wonder if anyone in this country is aware of what's going on in the local environment today and what kind of situation local self-government is in? In addition to being completely devastated by the reduction of funds and increasing competences, we have countless such examples as the Vladimirs. You have, say, the mayor of Kragujevac who introduces bankruptcy into Kragujevac. You have a Laban who threatens to extract the throats. You've got the mayor of Nis who's in charge of the city probably 10 years ahead. You have the president of the Triestenik municipality who buys a new official car, and he didn't pay gas for the previous heating season and the public company accounts have been blocked. Of course, this Vladimir thing is like a special problem. Whether they are a ghetto in which the laws of the Republic of Serbia do not apply, the state auditor's opinion is not valid, then Minister Ana Brnabic, and today's prime ministers. Should they respect the institutions of the Republic of Serbia or are they subject to certain specific rules? I ask the authorities to answer this question and take all measures necessary to resolve the situation in the Vladimirs municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21466	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21467	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I request a notice, i.e. an explanation from the Ministry of Youth and Sports of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Following the adoption of the Bill on Confirmation of the Agreement establishing a Regional Office for Youth Cooperation, it remains unclear whether young people in Serbia have their Day of Marking. In fact, the initiative for this kind of thing expired in February 2015 at the Fourth Session of the Council for Young Governments of the Republic of Serbia by representatives, i.e. delegates of young people and the City of Nis. In addition to youth and sports ministers, representatives of several ministries attended the session. The idea to launch this initiative is just to draw attention to what young people have done during emergency situations in Serbia, when nearly 10,000, according to official data, have been organised as volunteers. The initiative was otherwise supported by 500 youth volunteers from the City of Nis, as they want to draw attention to the need to mark Serbia's youth day, except for August 12th, International Youth Day. By giving a national day through the Youth Act, it would show that we understand the importance of recruiting young people, their active participation, their importance and a clear positioning of the state towards young people as a priority in a healthy development category. Practically, the question is: at what stage is the decision to introduce such a day, taken at the Fourth Session of the Council for the Young Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21468	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milos Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21469	Honorable MPs, respected citizens, my first question is for the Ministry of Environmental Protection. In fact, a few days ago, an e-mail came to all the MPs from a citizen who was concerned about building HE on the Old Mountain, so I'm going to read a part of that letter now. There's an environmental crime going on over the old mountain. There's a hydropower plant under construction on the Blackwater River. The plan is to translate the Topladol River into the Zavojsko lake. More than 60 locations for new hydropower plants have been defined, and more than 600 in Serbia as a whole. Most of them are to be found in national parks, where the law prohibits the refurbishment or regulation of rivers. This way, the law is directly broken. Permissions to build these hydropower plants were obtained in a highly suspicious manner. During the construction of the river, the pipes are moved away, and the riverbed runs out of water. The result is that all the plant and animal world is extinct, and there is also the depletion of existing sources. The attack on the Old Mountain and its rivers is a crime against nature and people, and on top of that, it's against the law. “ There is the end of the letter. Well, given the circumstances, I was there a few days ago, and I saw what the Black River looked like, and it really is. So there's almost no vegetation along the river because the bulldozers and heavy machinery cleaned the trees and all the greenery to put the pipes by the river and put the river in the tube. If this continues, we will lose everything that the Old Mountain can offer in a touristic sense, we will no longer have those fantastic waterfalls, where many Nišli and other citizens go, and also the products that the Old Mountain is famous for, such as the Hatters, Cheeses, Milk, will no longer be able to be that quality and people will not be able to produce it and will not be able to live out of it. Some concerned citizens have already had a meeting with the environment ministry and have received some assurances that the problem will be resolved. So my question for the ministry is whether the Ministry has done anything about this issue, because the boggers are still there, I was two or three days ago, still being done, because this is a direct violation of the law and whether this process has been stopped because, I repeat, it must not be built on the territory of national parks. The next question is also for the same ministry, and it concerns a problem that is probably known to everyone, plastic bags that we're definitely using too much. You probably know that in every supermarket, Draxtor, megamarket, without question, they give us plastic bags and these bags end up in the wrong places, end up on the street, in treetops, in rivers. A friend told me it ended up on his head because the wind blew and a bag came directly into his face. Most of the countries in the environment, as well as countries in the EU, have solved this problem by obliging traders to charge plastic bags, at least at some minimum price, just to make consumers think whether they will take a plastic bag or perhaps still carry a blanket or a canvas bag from home and thus pack their products. The question for the ministry is – is the ministry planning any law that would regulate this? Let's not always be the last in the region and the last in Europe to solve this. It would be really nice to get rid of this and finally stop drowning in plastic. The next question is for the former Prime Minister, current President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic. We're asking this question for the 28th time, because we can't get an answer. The first question is, why isn't he answering parliamentary questions? The second question is also for him -- is the SNS coalition with Haradinaj the introduction of a preamble on Kosovo from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? The next question is for Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic. We're asking this question 20 times, because the last 19 times we haven't received an answer. We'll set him up until he answers. The question is, when will the agenda finally put a debate on its own shift? This isn't something we're looking for, that we insist on, but something she promised herself and it would be her turn to keep that promise. I would ask Maja Gojkovic to provide us with the answer to this question in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21470	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21471	Dear citizens of Serbia, I missed the opportunity to welcome British parliamentarians who unfortunately left our meeting as the most advanced political forces in Europe that have left the failed EU project, and for this very reason I will ask the first question to Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic – did he find out yesterday that the EU has double standards when it comes to Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia? I think all Serbian citizens see these double EU standards years ago. The European Union took part in the bombing of Serbia-Montenegro, creating an independent Kosovo, and it is really pointless to have a president who only yesterday realized that the EU has double standards. That is why we are asking President Alexander Vukic – when will he end these devastating negotiations on KIM in Brussels, because it is clear that there is no neutral mediator there, but a direct sponsor of Kosovo's independence? The second question concerns the Ministry of Labour – when will more than 100,000 workers in Serbia be able to make their claims on failed businesses in robbery privatisations? In fact, more than 100,000 workers in Serbia have unpaid earnings, have unrelated work experience and other obligations that failed businesses have towards them. Is the government of the Republic of Serbia's budget for 2018 the allocation of funds that would be compensated by these stolen workers in the previous years and decades? The second issue is for the same ministry, and it concerns the status of war veterans in Serbia. Is it possible, Mr. Minister, that you are in charge of combat issues, that Serbia is the only country in Europe, and especially in former Yugoslav areas, which has not resolved the status of war veterans, wartime wartime disableds and families killed in the country's defence wars from 1991 to 1999? Will finally the Government of the Republic of Serbia, after withdrawing several legislative proposals, enter the assembly procedure with a law that would resolve the issue of war veterans and all that concerning those people who were ready in their time, and many of them will give their lives so that we can live in freedom today? The question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, I don't mean Alexander Vukic, is that he is the acting official, but Anna Brnabic, when the problem of Serbian village and agriculture will be solved, i.e. when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia support the Serbian peasants with concrete measures after this truly disastrous year with a series of elemental disasters, from colds across the city to huge droughts, because we see, here is the month of October, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not yet brought any support to the suffering Serbian peasants? The same question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and now I think of Alexander Vukic as acting as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, when will the issue of more than 20,000 families that have credits indexed in foreign currencies, especially in Swiss francs, and who are literally robbed by bankers and derickets in this country, and that this state has in no way protected them? When are we going to end the currency clause and rob citizens from banks on various bank fees and frauds of another kind? Finally, questions for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Maju Gojkovic, who did not answer those questions at the National Assembly College, concerning the key control and control roles of the National Assembly over the work of the executive authority. For a year, this ruling majority has avoided bringing the government of the Republic of Serbia here to the National Assembly to answer the opposition's parliamentary questions. There is no last Thursday of the month when the government is due to meet, there are no 10 special sessions on the current topics proposed by the Dveri Parliamentary Group and, most importantly, I am asking for a detailed report on how many ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia have submitted their work report in the past year. According to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, ministers are required to report every three months and to attend the meeting of the National Assembly, and they have not been doing so for a full year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21472	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21473	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am asking a question to the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Ana Brnabic, a question very little discussion among MPs, particularly among those who are self-called patriots or self-called nationalists. It is very important for the dignity of a nation and for the pride of a country, and I think that Parliament has missed the opportunity to discuss and ask questions to those who lead this country. How is it possible that, after everything that has happened, the Serb list, supported by the SNS on KIM, supports Ramush Haradinaj as president of the Kosovo government? What is the explanation that he is charged with the most serious crimes against humanity against Serbs, non-Albanians, and even Albanians who have not been obedient citizens, the most serious crimes have been committed in these areas? Is it possible that the coalition partner of the Government of the Republic of Serbia Ramush Haradinaj deserved both for what and how much it cost? We're talking about some pride, talking about how proud we are of our history, talking about how proud we are as a people and as a nation. In front of the assembly, the president of the Republic of Serbia and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia must respond to families whose faces are on posters outside the Republika Srpska Assembly. Those who disappeared, among other things, also disappeared into the so-called so-called. "Yellow House". What does the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office do if there is irrefutable evidence and if there is information that the Serbian War Crimes Prosecutor's Office is in possession of irrefutable evidence that Ramush Haradinaj is a war criminal? Why does the Serbian War Crimes Prosecutor's Office keep quiet? Is that part of the coalition agreement between the SNS and Ramush Haradinaj? During yesterday's day, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia speaks of the dual international rights arches when it comes to Catalonia and when it comes to Kosovo, which international right gives you the right to have a war criminal, who killed your fellow citizens, support him to become KIM Prime Minister? Do you really think, as president of the Republic and Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, there is genuine reconciliation between Kosovo Albanians and Kosovo Serbs if Ramush Haradinaj remains Prime Minister of the Republic of Kosovo with the help of the SNS? It was an emergency meeting. The consultations scheduled by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. Was Ramush Haradinaj on the line? Was he part of the consultation when it came to double international arches. Why did neither the President of the Republic of Serbia nor the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia say a single word when Ramush Haradinaj called Medvedja and Presevo in eastern Kosovo two days ago, and that is probably part of the coalition agreement? Part of the coalition agreement is to be ashamed and to crush our heads. The reality of Kosovo is a completely different question. Of course those who have fought for Kosovo and who have lost this war today have nothing else to say, but to present themselves as the great supporters of KIM politics, Ramush Haradinaj and to sign anything concerning Kosovo's independence, every agreement, every contract. It is said of the UN and the UN chair, and that is also another topic, but answers to these questions, which is why Serbian citizens bow their heads, owe both to the President of the Republic of Serbia and to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21474	Thank you, colleague Bozovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, my first question for the government and the Department of Defense is whether the Mire 29 squadrons will soon be complete and thus strengthen the battle power of this country, so that we can protect integrity, and will the missile system of any form and any marks be acquired? With this in mind, ladies and gentlemen, I am asking the government and the prosecution – what will the government and the prosecution do against Boris Tadic, Vojislav Kostunica over the wild construction of the wild state of Kosovo on the territory of our southern province, because in 2008 in February of the month, they did nothing to do with the adoption in Pristina of the Albanian Kosovo Declaration of Independence? Also, with this in mind, their responsibility is even greater because they sought a non-binding opinion in further construction, changed the UN resolution and transferred the powers from UNMIK to EULEX, thus eliminating Russia and China's only friends. This is proof that high treason has been carried out in a certain way. My question for the prosecution and for the government – what will they do about it, and I would also add Vuk Jeremic, to a people better known as the descendent wolf, because he also participated in the wild construction of the wild state of KIM. My second question concerns the building minister. Is it true that Balsa Bozovic and Dragan Djilas exhibited a music fountain project in Slavija in 2014? If they did, to deliver an answer to us, and to condemn what the two said did not end, but to condemn those who built what they designed. Next, my question - what will the National Assembly do, to make clear and loudly determined to the MPs who celebrate the neo-Nazi organizations that welcome their results, welcome their movements, the type of Bulgarian Ataka which is the heritage of the Bulgarian military force in World War II, the Alternative for Germany, which is very close to the Nazi organisation, and what are we going to do as the National Assembly on this issue, to make ourselves clear and loud about these phenomena, that is, to MPs who support such a kind of movement? Furthermore, my question for the prosecution – what will they do about the disappearance, that is, the sale during the government of the former regime of 21 million grams of gold which, according to my information, has not been done legally? What will they do, because it's worth over 700 million euros? Let me remind you, it's a three-year subsidy in agriculture. The 700m euros could be opened to 100,000 red spots, and they have wiped out, or released 400,000 people. Furthermore, what will the Assembly do about the presence of the President of the Committee on European Integration, who has gone to Catalonia these days and has unequivocally supported the disintegration of one of the EU countries and thus complicated, in a certain way, our position and our position on KIM, that is, our non-recognition of the wild country of KIM? In this regard, the conduct of MPs who followed the referendum on Crimea has been condemned in public, and in technical details some colleagues have only monitored how this referendum is going, and here the president of the Committee on European Integration has politically engaged and supported the independence of Catalonia and thus has complicated our international position and supported the disintegration of a European state. With this in mind, I ask the National Assembly and the President of the National Assembly – what will they do about it?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21476	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21477	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, I ask the question of the Ministry of Justice, the failed presidential candidate Sasa Jankovic, known as Sala Prangi, was the main actor in the "Pistol" affair, which on 4 January 1993, in Jankovic's apartment in Novi Belgrade, Predrag Gojkovic allegedly committed suicide in the presence of Jankovic, two other Sasa Misic and Djordž Grubačić. With that in mind, I ask the question – is it true that Sasa Jankovic was hiding that Predrag Gojkovic allegedly killed himself from Jankovic's gun? Is it true that someone stopped the investigation of this case? Is it true that the paraffin gloves found that there were no powder marks on the hands of Sasa Misic and Gjorge Grubačić, indicating that they were not murderers? Is it true that Sasa Jankovic had gunpowder on his hands, suggesting he was the murderer of Predrag Gojkovic? Is it true, please note, respected citizens, that one of the three actors in the "Pistol" affair later was an accomplice to the murder of Željko Raznatovic Arkan? What does that tell us, ladies and gentlemen? It says that Sasa Jankovic is a very dangerous man and involved in many of the affairs that took place in those years. That Sasa Jankovic is a dangerous man and is prone to violence also tells his statement that he will shoot the president of the state of Aleksandr Vukic. Can you imagine, respected citizens, that Sasa Jankovic can deal with politics and be a councilman in one of the municipalities? Regarding the alleged suicide of Predrag Gojkovic and the participation of Sasa Jankovic in the affair, I asked a question at one of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia sessions and, of course, I received an answer. Dear citizens, don't be shocked by the answer, the answer is, I quote, "The subject has been destroyed by commission, based on Commission Decision of the historical archive of the City of Belgrade 14, 16 May 2004." Can you imagine the disappearance of the original Dayton Agreement and the Holbrok-Milosevic Agreement on the non-recognition of Kosovo? I ask the question - who are the members of the Commission of the Historical Archives? Who was the director of the Belgrade City Archives and who is the prosecutor in the process? Is there any chance, I'm asking a question, that this object will be lit up to the end? I ask the second question - Sasa Radulovic, called the bankruptcy king, was a bankruptcy manager in 14 companies and as such took 495 monthly compensations, or 50,000 dinars from citizens' pockets. The bankruptcy manager was taking money from the bankruptcy he wanted and how he wanted, without the consent of the court and the state. Radulovic damaged the state and companies for millions. Sasa Radulovic also damaged the United States by failing to pay $1.06m in taxes. In 2011, Radulovic, as a bankruptcy manager at the construction company "New Highway", provided the company "business Service" with millions of bookkeeping jobs in which he was co-owner with his wife. For this reason, he was fined with 100,000 dinars and removed from his duty as the bankruptcy manager of the "New Highway". I was sued by a court of law for such facts and, of course, lost the dispute. He lied that I called for immunity. He didn't show up, but a little girl came to court. A lie to him is a character trait. He lied about SNS and Alexander Vukic stealing the election. After five months, here, he confessed to lying. The king of bankruptcy declared himself a fighter against partiality and godfather's ties in politics. Dear citizens, Radulovic is Europe's champion in best-quality and family ties in politics. For example, on SO Vračar, he placed on the committee list Ivan Kljajic and his wife Oliver Kljajic, the godfather Ivan Kljajic – Milenko Petronijevic and his wife Dragan Petronijevic, Srecko Babić and his wife, Dunja Vidic Babić, the father of the Secretary General of the Movement of Mr Nikolic. Seven godmothers, wife and spouse on the Board List for SO Vračar. Dear citizens, I hope you will throw it into the political past in the next Belgrade elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21478	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. (Anna Stevanović: Rules of Procedure. Why do you allow it to speak offensively of our president? You should know that you cannot get a word based on the Rules of Procedure, for one simple reason, because the session has not yet begun. This is the time and period when MPs, according to the Rules of Procedure, ask questions. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next MPs Meho Omerovic and Gordana Comic. Proposals for review of acts by emergency procedure. The government proposed that the draft law on national geospace data infrastructure, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 July 2017, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Bank's law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 August 2017, should be put on the agenda of the emergency procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21479	Thank you. I conclude the vote: no one, against the seven abstentions, voted with 158 MPs. I find that the government's proposal has not been accepted. The government has proposed that the draft amending and supplementing the Security and Information Agency Act be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the six abstentions, voted 163 people's messengers. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (a loan for development policies in the field of risk management from elementary disasters with the option of delayed withdrawal of funds) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: no one has voted against the four abstentions for them 165 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Bill on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty between KfW Frankfurt and the Republic of Serbia, which is the finance minister for the medium size water supply and sewerage programme in Serbia's municipalities, which submitted to the National Assembly on 29 August 2017. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed that the draft law on the confirmation of the Loan Agreement (the project of inclusive pre-school education and education) be put on the agenda between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no vote for – one against – four abstentions. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The government proposed putting on the agenda an emergency procedure draft law confirming a loan agreement for a privileged buyer for a modernisation and reconstruction project of the Hungarian-Serbian railway link in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, for the Belgrade centre – Stara Pazova, between the government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Finance, as a borrower and the Chinese "Export-Import" bank, as a lender. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the four abstentions. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed that the draft law on the confirmation of a financial agreement be put on the agenda of the clinical centres/c, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, following an urgent procedure. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—one, against—four, abstentions—there is no vote, not 165 MPs. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed that the draft Act amending the Information Security Act be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 128, against – 13, the abstentioned – there is no vote, no vote by 29 MPs. I find that the Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 132, v – 10 abstentions – no, 29 MPs did not vote. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed that the draft law on the National Academy of Public Administration be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 131 against – 10 abstentions – no, 130 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for –14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MPs Milan Lapčević, Dejan Šulkic and Gorica Gajic have suggested that the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that, as an emergency procedure, a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee be put on the agenda to determine the facts and circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the work of the Action Society for Insurance "Such Insurance", Kragujevac. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The state's major prosecutor suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the draft decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision on the termination of the position of the President of the Criminal Court of Appeal be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members and president of the National Education Council be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the National Education Council be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no vote for – one against – two abstentions. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The SRS parliamentary group has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 134, against – two abstentions – no, 36 MPs did not vote. I find that this proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending the NBS Act be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -11, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 162 MPs. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the draft law supplementing the Law on Fundamental Education and Education be put on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for nine, against two, with abstentions, there is none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the completion of the Law on the basis of the education and education system. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a law supplementing the law on secondary education and education be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The state's major prosecutor suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the draft decision to elect a deputy public prosecutor should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I'm closing the vote: no one voted. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dragoljub Micunovic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending the Law on textbooks be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The SNS parliamentary group has proposed that, as an emergency procedure, the draft decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia board be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – one, with abstention – there is no, I find that this proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending the Capital Act be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the Bill on Amendments of the Criminal Code be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 12, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law supplementing the Health Insurance Act be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law supplementing the Criminal Code be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Taxes be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending the Law on corporate tax be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The president of the National Assembly proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that a proposal has been accepted. National MP Natasa Vučković suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft law amending the Law on the protection of the right to trial be put on the agenda within a reasonable period of time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Natasa Vučković suggested that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda - Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that, following an emergency procedure, a draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Defence be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that, by emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Maja Vidinovic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on amendments to the Law on Electronic Media be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Vesna Marjanovic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on amendments to the Law on Electronic Media be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The Serbian Progressive Party MP group has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda -- a proposal for a decision to amend a decision on the election of members and deputy members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – 1, the abstentions – there is no. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The Serbian Radical Party MP group has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda -- a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The president of the National Assembly proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft decision to amend the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132 versus – one with abstention – there is no. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The MP group "Enough Has Been" proposed that, following an emergency procedure, it be put on the agenda - a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the National Assembly Committee of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The president of the National Assembly proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft decision to amend the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that this proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on amendments to the Law on the Serbian Army be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on amendments to the Law on the Serbian Army be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 155 MPs for – 11 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on amendments and amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. We're going over to the agenda. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances regarding the destruction of buildings in Belgrade, in a part of the town known as Savala, 25 April 2016. Do you want to explain? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21480	Thank you, President. A request in front of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group -- Serbia's National Movement for the formation of a polling committee, which would deal with the survey of events that took place in Belgrade on 24 and 25 April 2016, was submitted on 06 June 2016. Today, on October 3, 2017, almost a year and a half after these events, the public in Serbia has not yet learned the truth about what happened, who were the people who had destroyed the facilities that were private property, the objects that could not be collapsed because there was no decision by the competent state authority and, which was much scarier, who were those who brought in citizens who had found themselves at the time, deprived them of their right to freedom for several hours, and who were those at the top of the police who managed to call the police and ask the police to comply with the law and the Constitution to carry out their obligation and protect the citizens, constitutional and legal order of Serbia, who had not responded to that call. These days we can also read parts of a police report based on which the prosecution should launch an investigation. Unfortunately, there is nothing in that report, no answer to these questions. What is particularly interesting, however, is that a few days after this event, we have heard from the then Prime Minister that people from the top of the city government, the same city government that still manages Belgrade in a way that has torn up half of the city and decorated the New Year's holy city of Belgrade on October 2nd and calling these people completely justified by complete idiots. What I'm interested in and what I think is the subject of a survey committee that should be formed is that if the police and the D.A. didn't take a statement from Mr. Alexander Vukic, now President of the Republic, to share his findings, which are complete idiots from the top of the city government. I think it would be a good idea if we had a polling committee that would give an answer and give the president a chance to answer who the complete idiots from the top of the city government are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21481	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the points of the draft law on taxing undeclared citizens' income. Does he want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a draft law amending the Law on Special Measures to prevent the conduct of criminal acts against the full freedom of minors. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the point of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. Does Ambassador Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? He's not here. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft amending and supplementing the General Administrative Procedure Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law amending the Law on Public Information and Media. Does anyone want a word? (No) Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law amending the Law on corporate tax. Does anyone want a word? (No) Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace. He's not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Assembly. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law amending the Law on textbooks. Does the MP want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Enterprises. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić suggested that the session agenda be complemented by point Proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms and products from GMOs. Here, you want to explain. The word has Professor Miladin Ševarlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21482	I thank the president. In addition to two laws on genetically modified organisms that were discussed and adopted in 2001 and 2009, this House has considered the problem of genetically modified organisms three more times. Twice in the form of public hearings that were then organised by the chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection, Professor Milica Vojic Markovic, and once during the handover of over 30,000 signatures with a request to conduct a referendum on genetically modified organisms, which were collected by Green Serbia headed by the now current MP Ivan Karic. In the period from 2013, when the representatives of the Cacca Assembly first unanimously adopted the text of my declaration on genetically modified organisms, the text and later the texts proposed by the Green Serbia, concluded with a unanimous statement by the Council of Sjenica committee on 20 December 2016, was adopted in 136 local self-government, i.e. municipalities and cities or 80.5% of the total 169 municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia. I am not familiar with any social action, which has received practically plebiscitarian support in local self-governments, such as the text of a declaration on genetically modified organisms, which is supported by the 2009 Law on genetically modified organisms, which prohibits imports, cultivation, processing and transport of genetically modified organisms and products from genetically modified organisms. At the same time, this declaration has practically covered over 80% of the territory, about 80% of the total territory of the Republic of Serbia, 85% of the total population in the Republic of Serbia is on the territory of these 136 local self-governments. In view of the decisions of the absolute majority of the legitimate state bodies of the congregations, municipalities and cities, a logical and democratic position to propose as a national MP to the National Assembly, which I have done, a roof declaration on genetically modified organisms, which differs from the text adopted in 136 local self-government, and this member reads – the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia undertakes to submit, in case the Government of the Republic of Serbia submits a proposal for amending and supplementing the 2009 GMO law, or a proposal for a new law on GMO, in order to authorise imports, cultivation, processing and transport of GMOs and products from GMOs, to the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to make a preliminary decision and to implement a referendum on whether or not you are for or against imports, cultivation, cultivation, processing and traffic of GMOs and products from GMOs in the territory of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21483	Thank you. You've wasted your time. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Parliamentarians of the Dveri Group proposed that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances related to the events during the 2016 election process from the day of the call of the republic's elections until the date of publication of the final results of the elections. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21484	Respected citizens of Serbia remain unclear after a year since the constitution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, why does the ruling majority avoid the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the 2016 election process, from the day of the call of the republic's elections to the day of publication of the final results of the elections? If you had nothing to hide, you would, of course, support the education of a survey committee like this, but since you know perfectly how guilty you are and how much you participate in various types of election thefts, of course you avoid one such survey committee forming. It is not just the electoral theft that takes place on the day of the election, when you buy votes, when you arrange to buy votes via the Bulgarian train, when they vote the dead who remain in the unscheduled voter lists, etc. There are a number of other forms of electoral theft that we are referring to here and we are asking that a survey committee be formed to see what this is about, starting with how you blackmail citizens who work in the public sector, that they have to collect safe votes for you, that you abuse state institutions in order to actually be put into office of the electoral campaign of the government, that you have closed all the media and that there are no more political shows in which the authorities and opposition would be confronted and finally how you abolished REM and that REM does not exercise its function in control of the electoral process, and that I am not talking about that, for years here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there is no monitoring committee for the control of the electoral process, which is the obligation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The last such monitoring committee was formed in 2000 and since then no authority has allowed the National Assembly to control the election process. You're avoiding putting on the agenda the formation of a survey board, you're actually jumping into your mouth, because all the while you're saying that there were some illegal shops and that someone pushed someone into the assembly, so don't let the gentlemen of the government form a survey board, so let's see how you actually stole in those elections. We all remember that the then president of the SNS and today's Aleksandar Vukic, he went to a press conference before the RIK and declared that the three lists of electoral opposition were below the censorship. Imagine, Alexander Vukic, declaring who is in Serbia below the censorship and who is acceptable to him to enter the National Assembly, and who has no right, in his opinion, to enter the National Assembly at all. This is the truth about your 2016 election theft, and the fact that you can't do it now, let the citizens make sure that you vote to form this committee of inquiry, talks about how and how you have something to hide. If you have nothing to hide, vote to form a committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21485	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MPs of the Dveri group suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21486	Respected Serbian citizens -- and this country of Serbia's that threatens the sun to yell through the cloud of the dreary forehead, the dark pines of an eternity of stories far away. The country is a Serb. I bring you honourable fellow MPs from Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21487	I'm sorry to interrupt. Is that a stone?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21489	You can't bring that into the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21490	A stone from Kosovo and Metohija?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21491	You can't bring a rock into an O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21492	But this is from Đura Jaksic's song, "Country", that rock of Serbia's country.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21493	I do, but it's in our songs, but you can't do that. Please take out the stone. Break. Please get out of the O.R. I'll give you a minute's break until you're out, please. It's in songs and guns and knives and rocks and bricks, but we can't let that happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21494	I don't understand why you would mind a stone from Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21495	Break, take out the stone, please, be kind. Please security, be kind and just take the stone and help the MP so we can move on. Thank you. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21496	Thank you, Chairman. I can't really understand who can be disturbed by the stone from Kosovo and Metohija and why you're bothered by the song Đura Jaksic's country.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21497	Ambassador, please, take it easy. Prove that you brought it from Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21498	That's right, yesterday I was in Kosovo and Metohija and I brought a stone, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21499	Please don't. That's not what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21500	Please, if you can calm the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21501	You know for a fact that no such thing can be brought into parliament's hall. I don't even know how it got into the building.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21502	I hope you'll give me my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21503	Of course I'll pay you back, but this is a question for Parliament's security as far as it's possible to bring stones into parliament. It wasn't a question for you, it's up to you to try.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21504	It's not stones, it's a stone from Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21505	It's up to you to try. Please, be quiet. I ask the Members of the Parliament for silence so that we can continue in the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21506	Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21507	Vice President, sit down. We're not here at the bar. We're here in the Parliament. Sit next to me. Thank you. Shame on you, Vice President. Or take the MP out for coffee and we'll work. Please sign in again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21508	Thank you, Chairman. Serbia's Dveri MP group came out with a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on AP Kosovo and Metohija, which we want to put the ruling majority ahead of the possibility of supporting this resolution and standing in the defence of Kosovo and Metohija. The only internal dialogue on Kosovo and Metohija that is acceptable to us from the Dvora is a dialogue on how we will defend Kosovo and the Metohija in Serbia. No dialogue on changing the constitution, ousting Kosovo and Metohija from preamble or teaching, betraying Kosovo and Metohija is acceptable to us. Everything that should have been said about Kosovo and Metohija is recorded in the Constitution. We want this resolution to invite all of you from the ruling majority to stand behind the defence of Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia. I am now interested in, in the eyes of the entire Serbian public, how will you refuse to put the resolution on the defence of Kosovo and Metohija in the form of Serbia on the agenda of the assembly session? Sam President Aleksandar Vukic said the assembly will discuss Kosovo and Metohija. Here's a chance to put this on the agenda. If you do not put this on the agenda, your story about internal dialogue is a simple lie and that Kosovo and Metohija will not come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In this resolution in a number of points, we are actually talking about a fundamental issue -- that Kosovo and Metohija are occupied by the territory of the Republic of Serbia, that no one can sign any recognition of Kosovo's independence, that these devastating negotiations should be interrupted in Brussels and return the topic of Kosovo and Metohija to the UN Security Council. Most importantly, the first since 1999 we are calling for Resolution 1244 and for the return of up to 1,000 members of our civilian and military personnel to Kosovo and Metohija. We ask, therefore, for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to stand behind Kosovo and Metohija being an inalienable part of the state of Serbia and to return the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija to assist the return of displaced Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija. Now, gentlemen of the government, from the SNS, from the SPS, you're on a very simple test. Are you interested in defending Kosovo and Metohija? If you are interested in supporting a resolution on the defence of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia. If you refuse to put this on the agenda of today's session, it is clear that you are the false defenders of Kosovo and Metohija and that you are Haradinaj's friends and accomplices in Kosovo's independence. This is a chance to get back on the patriotic path. After all, your voters are for the defence of Kosovo and Metohija and are not for co-operation with Haradinaj like you. Please vote for this.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21509	Thank you. We're putting it to a vote to see if your argument is enough. I'm closing the vote and I'm saying, for - 8, against - no one, abstentioned - is. Your proposal was not accepted. Ambassador Aleksandra Jerkov proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on the financing of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21510	I thank the president. In 2006, the constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which prescribed that a law be passed to regulate the financing of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina. Eleven years later, five working groups later, four, five or six governments later, seven finance ministers, three different province governments later, the law was not passed, and the result is that Vojvodina does not know how much funding it will have. Not the funds that will belong to the Government of the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina, but the funds that will belong to the citizens of Vojvodina, which Vojvodina uses for different types of assistance, incentives, subsidies, grants and other opportunities that the citizens of the AP Vojvodina have. It is unclear why no one in Serbia wants this law passed. It is not something that Vojvodina wants to kidnap from Serbia, and because of this your thesis that Alexandera Vucic often presents, that Vojvodina is given 7% are at least embarrassing. The people of Vojvodina don't want anyone to give them anything. We just want you to stop kidnapping. That's the only thing that matters when it comes to financing the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. Because the law has not been passed, we have been fighting every year for 11 years when the Republic of Serbia's budget is adopted, fighting over whether these famous 7% of the income, 7% of the expenditure. The first SNS government has resolved this dilemma in a rather embarrassing way, saying it is neither 7% of the income nor 7% of the expenditure but 7% of the tax revenues, which is significantly less than what it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, but in one thing, all the finance ministers who anti-constitutionalally abolished Vojvodina's funds right, and that is that nowhere in the Constitution does it say that Serbia should provide those 7%, but simply that the Vojvodina budget is 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The little problem with that logic is that Vojvodina has no way of replacing those 7%, so I repeat, we don't want anyone to give us anything out of the republican budget, just so that the citizens of Vojvodina don't get what they've earned themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21511	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for -17. Can not get message: %s %s National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the textbooks law. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21512	Thank you. Since the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education and the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System had to be withdrawn, since the laws I wanted to intervene on in the meantime had changed, I will certainly prepare new ones. This is the only law in the field of education I propose at this session. The problem is that the laws we adopted when we discussed the laws on the basics of education and education systems and the Law on Higher Education have not solved any of the only problems that exist in our education, have not solved any problem with textbooks, nor the problem with quality of education, nor the problem with funding education, nor the problem with fake diplomas, nor the conditions in which children go to school, nor the problem about how children teach us, what they learn, what level of knowledge they expect from them, what kind of people come out of our schools after school, instead, we got education laws. The minister announced that we will have a new law on textbooks, but if it looks like these laws we adopted last week in this assembly, I fear that in the law in the textbooks, it will probably say that the minister himself writes all the textbooks that are on the market in Serbia, and the basis of the textbook law should be very simple. Our textbooks should be modern, should be accurate, should be modern according to what is happening in the modern world when it comes to education, should be freed, as Verbic said - textbook mafias and should be available to children, which with our textbooks is not an accident at the moment. The devastating ads that appeared in the eyes of the start of the new school year for loans in banks, favourable loans that parents need to raise so that, please imagine luxury, they can buy children and textbooks and they can enroll them in some teaching activity, I think it's karate or English. These are the things that humiliate our citizens. Our textbooks are, therefore, too expensive, too heavy, too old, out-of-date, very often incorrect, and our parents can't afford it. Kids can't track it, and they certainly can't learn anything from it. We'll see what laws Sarcevic proposes here, but even if they're a little bit similar to the laws we passed last week, which Sarcevic suggested, I don't think we're writing any good.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21513	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -17, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The National MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, proposed that the agenda be supplemented by the points – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21514	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we entered the fourth year that Serbia was to pass a law on missing babies and in the fourth year Serbia avoided the obligation. It is a shame that the Council of Europe should remind us of something that we need to do ourselves for the sake of the truth, for the sake of justice, for human dignity, and for respecting the rights of people who have done the worst things that can happen to someone in life. I don't know what words more, now 60 and some time, can I ask you to put only one change in the criminal code, which is that the crime of stealing babies doesn't go out of date? If I can't ask you, then I'm asking you to meet these parents. They write to all MPs. I think the heads of all your MP clubs at least once received a letter from the Parents' Association asking you to meet them, to look them in the eye, so tell them why you won't let this law be passed. You don't have to explain it to me, you don't have to explain it to the DS. Parents whose children have been stolen tell us why you don't want this law to be passed for four years. Whoever hasn't met with them has no idea what these people are going through, can't imagine these bureaucratic barriers, these humiliations, those pinnacles, and the scams that these people are putting themselves through today. He can't imagine what it means when a parent for a healthy child in two days says that a child died, and then that child gets a warning in a year because it hasn't been vaccinated or in six years you get an invitation to enroll him in school, and then you have to report that your child died, and that you've never seen any documentation or the body of a child, nor have you had a chance to bury him. Please don't embarrass us. Don't let the Council of Europe have to warn us not to adopt this law. Don't let us do this for the Council of Europe. Let's do it for the people whose children are stolen, who can't get to the truth and let's do it for the dignity of these people, for the truth and for the sake of justice, and not to avoid doing it even when someone's forcing us, which is our tragedy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21515	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -17, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. The National Parliament of Aleksandra Jerkov proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agricultural Land. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21516	Thank you, President. A colleague of Bosko Obradovic brought a stone from Kosovo. Believe me, the same weight is the Vojvodina country, which amends and amends the laws adopted in this Assembly nearly two years ago, kidnaps farmers and assigns to SNS business partners, by the free choice of the president of municipalities and the Minister of Agriculture. My proposal for a law refers to a country that is assigned to your business partners in each local self-government, still under certain rules, in accordance with some laws, in accordance with certain criteria and in some procedures that will be visible and in which others will be able to participate, not just selected ones. The agricultural land law, which was adopted here nearly two years ago, stipulates that in each local self-government, a third of the agricultural land can be given to one legal person by procedures that are absolutely unclear, invisible and unknown to other citizens and that the legal person will receive a third of the agricultural land in each municipality and every city in Serbia by choice and exclusively by choice by the minister of agriculture and the president of the municipality or mayor. The problem is that between 15,000 and 17,000 families, specifically in Vojvodina, live on the land that is owned by the state. Several tens of thousands of people live exclusively from it and you are now depriving the best agricultural land in every municipality and every city in Serbia from being completely untransparent to your business partners, and you are denying those people the right to live on their land, to process the land and to live with dignity as parors, as farmers and as peasants, and you are forcing them to actually work as superiors on a country that you will assign to your business partners. Our proposal is completely different. Our proposal is that this competition be opened, that the game be opened, that everyone can be included, that anyone can bid, so whoever offers the most, get that agricultural land. Believe me, they don't take bad quality land. They take the best land in every municipality, and the pair of what remains.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21517	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -16, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal to resolve Veroljub Arsic from the post of vice-president of the National Assembly. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for six, against them, no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of Maja Gojkovic from the post of National Assembly President. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the proposal has not been accepted despite my vote "yes". National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Dusan Pavlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Dusan Pavlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on complementarity of the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Dusan Pavlovic suggested that the session agenda be completed with the dots – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Chambers of Commerce. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-sufficient, will ever be able to do so. I find the proposal not accepted. National MPs Sasa Radulović and Dusan Pavlovic have suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find the proposal not accepted. National MPs Sasa Radulović and Dusan Pavlovic proposed that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Natasa Vučković suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. Does a messenger want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Natasa Vučković suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Court within a reasonable period of time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, for—11, against—no one. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Jesic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. Does the MP want a word? He's not here. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against none, with abstention, none. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Goran Jesic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, for—11, against—no one. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Gordana Comic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people were killed. Does a messenger want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Dejan Nikolic proposed that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the law on value added tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. National MPs of the Dveri Group have proposed that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly on the protection of Serbs in the region and dissipation. Here's a word from MP Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21518	Dear citizens of Serbia, it is an extraordinary honor and pleasure to present to you the proposal for a National Assembly declaration on the protection of Serbs in the region and dissipation, because it is indeed one of the topics which Dvori has been working on intensively, here, for 18 years, as long as we exist, since the time of the "Dover of Serbian" magazine, and intensively these six years in politics, with the insistence that Serbs living outside the borders of Serbia should not be neglected and forgotten here, in this home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in the capital city of Belgrade. We have a problem with the current power of the Serbian Progressive Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia, which has practically reduced relations between the queen and the diaspora to the lowest branches in the last two decades. The diaspora ministry was abolished, then the Office for Co-operation with Serbs in the region and the diaspora was abolished, and the Serbian Assembly in the region was abolished. Today we only have so-called. The diaspora administration and Serbs in the region at the foreign ministry, which has otherwise not chosen its director for three years, so I can say freely, very argumentably, that at this time no institution of the Serbian state is engaged in relations with Serbs living in the region and dissipating, which is a scandal. It should be borne in mind that at least one third of Serbs are currently living outside Serbia's borders. Can we afford to forget this so important population of our countrymen and citizens of the Republic of Serbia? In that sense, we have drawn up this proposal for a declaration and I am sure that every member of the Serbian Progressive Party and the Socialist Party of Serbia would support this declaration by the Court of Justice on the protection of the rights of Serbs in the region and dissipation. The rights of Serbs in the region are at the lowest point today, as Serbs are at risk both in Croatia and Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Albania and are really asking the question – what does the current government do to protect their civil, national, religious, property and other rights? As for Serbs in the diaspora, they have a huge problem with assimilation, the absence of schools in Serbian language and history, the absence of caring about how to preserve the national identity of Serbs scattered around the planet. It's just amazing that until today we don't have one such serious declaration that would fit in protecting Serbs in the region and dissipating. I invite you, regardless of our political and ideological differences, power and opposition, to support the adoption of this declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21519	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. National MPs Dejan Šulkic, Milan Lapcevic and Gorica Gajic have suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on Serbia's military neutrality. Does MP Dejan Šulkic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Dragoljub Micunovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law amending the Law on textbooks. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21520	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's been a lot of debate on the Education Act. But we have one problem – how is government policy established when it is composed of representatives of different ideological groups? It is often talked about the former regime, but it should be recalled that Mr. Zarko Obradovic, who I worked very well with, was in the former regime. Not to mention Dacic, not to mention Dinkic, not to mention Ljajic, and now I would not like to order all representatives of the former regimes incorporated into the current government. It creates certain difficulties when laws are passed. We have one conversion, so people change attitudes. So it happens that a good part of these, let's call the left parties, some have tried to be members of the International, for example, to vote one final conservative law which is a step back, which is the Labour Act, which reduces workers' rights and increases employers' rights, so that they have been thrown into the basket of the year and decades of fighting the working class for greater rights. So, on the one hand, we have one populist propaganda that keeps reminding me of that Kusturica movie with that Dolly Bell movie, every day we're making progress in every respect, but unfortunately, we're showing the same speed, maybe higher, and we're turning back. One step back is the law I was talking about, and the other is this law on free textbooks. I wouldn't say too much about it, it was a lot of speeches, I pleaded for some social reasons, but I would, first of all, start by respecting the Constitution. The Constitution in Article 71 cannot prescribe that basic education is mandatory and free of charge. If it's mandatory, a man goes to jail for not sending a child to school, and it's not for free, even though it's being deceived by the Constitution. He should take credit if he has three children, and we keep saying that there are more, so that the children can have a textbook. So the problem of democracy equality is that they have equal chances.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21521	Thank you. You've wasted your time explaining.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21522	Let me finish. It was during the last regime that abolished it and when, you'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21523	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 14, v – 14. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. Do you want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21524	Thank you. Looks like he turned round, so let me pick up where we were an hour ago, when I explained the first of 11 draft agenda points to put on this session. We wrote this bill a year ago and proposed for the first time as an amendment and a supplement, that is, to discuss it, since the government previously reduced the amount of income tax on citizens who remain local self-government. Here, the current Prime Minister, then the minister, first time she came to parliament about a year ago, explained how, behold, local minority self-governments are looking forward to a total of about six billion dinars a total of revenue reduction on this basis and that they will have no problem and will replace the missing funds in the budget from other revenues. A year later, we can see that that's not the case. We have a report from the Fiscal Council, which speaks of the threat of Serbia's public finances immersing the debt of local self-government, a debt that has arisen not only because of the unprofessional and poor management of local self-government by unprofessional and arrogant members of the SNS, but also because, among other things, this tax has been reduced. However, our basic idea was not to correct this government mistake. We wanted to point out that if there is already extra money in the budgets of local self-government, that this surplus money should be spent in another way, so we submitted proposals for two laws in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The first one is the financing of local self-government, which implies returning an old rate of tax on income tax to citizens who remain local self-government, and the second one is to reduce the general rate of income tax on citizens and thus go into what the government has promised for the sixth year, to start disbursing employers' obligations on paid employee earnings. The percentage does not decrease for six, 10 or more years, unfortunately, and is one of the main reasons why Serbia cannot deal with higher salaries for employees, which cannot be tackled by the gray economy. And it is constantly announced, here, and the President of the Republic, although not in his jurisdiction, announces that by the end of the year this percentage will be reduced. We expect to see when and if that happens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21525	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21526	Here, let me get on with it. So, income tax is a rate that hasn't changed in the last 15 years, I think. The total burden on gross earnings is the same. The only thing that changes is whether 12 or 14 goes for health insurance, and then for that same percentage, which, for example, decreases in health, increases by pension. Then, of course, the unprofessional minister explains that more has been paid into the Pension Insurance Fund by exactly how much this percentage has changed. Percent, the rate of income tax is 10%. We have suggested that the rate be reduced, if this law were to be adopted, to 9%, meaning a minimum reduction, not something that would capitalally solve problems, but would show that the government understands the problem of businessmen, domestic businessmen, those operating in Serbia, want to earn profits and expand its performance here in Serbia, that it does not exclusively worry about suspicious foreign investors who are coming, create the simplest jobs for which no expert prepares are needed, for which minimum earnings are paid and which, unfortunately, cannot solve the problems of citizens of Serbia, the problems of growing poverty, the problems of a growing number of Serbian citizens leaving the Republic of Serbia year after year. Of course there's a place where there's awareness that there's something that needs to be done. I repeat, it is announced, constantly, from time to time, as usual, it will be soon, in a year, no later than two, something done, reduced. Thus, a reduction in the rate of tax is announced. There were announcements several months ago by, of course, an unauthorized person, the president of the Republic, who cannot have anything to do with the economic policy run by the government of the Republic of Serbia, that he announced there would be a reduction in the tax rate. We'll see, he said, whether it's 2% or 3%. Here, I urge you, fellow MPs, to adopt this bill to the agenda, to adopt 1%, because obviously 1% is not controversial, that you should wait for the IMF's permission to see if it can be 2% or 3%. But let's take down this 1%, to show that we understand the problems of the economy, to understand citizens' problems, to understand that we need to change the catastrophic economic policy that this government has been leading for six years, looking for an alibi for its failures in everyone but ourselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21527	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21528	For more than a year, we have been seeking to amend this law that was adopted at the end of the previous call because we felt that the solutions that were then adopted in the law were bad and inadmissible. In this year and a half, as long as it's been since this law was passed, some things have changed, but unfortunately not the key things. The government came here twice asking itself to postpone the deadlines itself when this law was first passed. Now we're listening again to stories about some employee catalogue, and I don't know any stories about how work will be valued, how wages will be paid for the same public sector job everywhere, but that won't be the case, because the law in itself has one fundamental mistake, and that's why, in our opinion, it hasn't defined the public sector in the right way. According to the public sector law, it has fallen out, i.e. it does not contain public enterprises. First, in public enterprises, the biggest difference in employee incomes for the same jobs being done in what is called the public sector, and the law, which tried to define it here, did not define it properly. So in Elektroprivred, the National Bank, the Public Service, for some jobs, the same jobs as in the public sector, as defined by law, public services, education and the like, salaries are at 3:1, for the same job. This law will not resolve this unless you adopt the changes we have proposed, changes that mean that public sector, public sector definition and public enterprises are put in place, to put in the NBS and the Public Media Service. Also, this law has suffered changes in terms of reducing the rights of employees in the part that this law defines, but what may be the worst of all is that in the announcement of changes, since this law will obviously have to change again, for the third, fourth time in a year, we have the announcement of further reduction of rights and further poverty for Serbian citizens and this government is obviously not having a solution and it is showing that the economic policy, which was based on foreign investment in particularly large and quality jobs, today gives poor results and Serbia's economic growth is twice as small as a year ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21529	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 6:00 p.m. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21530	You have read the name of the Law whose termination of validity I seek - the Law on the temporary editing of the way pensions are paid. The law was passed in October 2014 three years ago. This word in the title of the law was temporarily edited, in the very text of the law, set by a three-year deadline. Three years for the validity of this law. This month, it expires three years after the adoption of the Retirement Retirement Act. When the law was passed, an amendment was adopted that the word, i.e. the three-year validity, was abolished. And then the minister, the current defence minister, spoke about how the law, which would be abolished for three years, would be such that the results of the government would be such that conditions would be created before the end of three years that the law would cease to apply. Here are three years and I wonder if the government, if it will not accept the proposals of opposition MPs, since there are other MPs who suggest that this law ceases to apply, will the government fulfill its promise even after three years of applying a harmful law that has dramatically threatened and reflected on the economic status of over half a million pensioners in Serbia, will the government lift this law? I have to say, and I have to say, I'm worried that I don't think that's gonna happen. We hear announcements that there will be another pension increase, the biggest in history, but to all pensioners. This injustice made three years ago obviously has no intention of correcting itself. What has the largest pension increase ever looked like to Serbian citizens over the past two years? We had an increase of 1.25% when inflation was 2.5%. We had an increase of 1.5% when inflation was 2%. So, realistically, pensions just because they're not in line with the rise in prices to a little bit, inflation has been reduced every year. Now again, we hear fairy tales, fairy tales that Serbian citizens are fed up with, and I believe that is one of the reasons why the government has acted hysterically in recent days.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21531	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the law on value added tax. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21532	For two years, we propose that the Assembly put this law on the agenda. The point is that the VAT rate, which taxes baby food, decreases from a general rate of 20% and applies a special rate of 10%. The ruling majority did not want to put any of the amendments on the agenda, though, when amendments and additions to the VAT Act were made, the minister, through the amendments that we had submitted at the time, was not explicitly against this measure, explained why this was not good, that it was allegedly possible to open up a space for abuses, that there would allegedly not be a reduction in retail prices if the VAT rate was reduced and many other unmistakable explanations were representatives of the government, when we had the opportunity to talk about measures that the state struggled to encourage birth and encourage families with children in Serbia, rejecting all the solutions that opposition MPs had proposed. At the end of last year, we passed the amendments to the laws that envisioned the return of VAT, as one of the measures that today is being helped by families with children, abolishing it, condemning the adoption of a law on financial support for families with children. I'll talk more about it when I explain the law. What was our wish is that, through this little change, we let the citizens of Serbia know that the state cares about them, that it cares about Serbia's future, that it understands the difficult position of parents in Serbia, that they are facing a difficult material situation, that they are unable to find work, the inability to start a independent life, the delay in starting a family creation, then that a large number of families decide on only one child and many other problems which, unfortunately, have the consequence that from year to year in Serbia, the negative growth rate is increasing. However, we get a constant "no" answer for this proposal, but unfortunately no other proposal is heard, while then boasting in front of cameras, for all the time in the world, which exists, the diary tells of how the opposition has no idea and no suggestions. Today, citizens of the Republic of Serbia can hear proposals for more than 100 laws proposed by the opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21533	Time, thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 13 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by points – draft law on the proposed law. The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21534	This law does not have much to do with Serbian citizens directly. This law should regulate the way parliament works and that we do not have the situation we have today and that we have the last three years. Not only are all the proposals of the opposition on the points of the agenda being proposed being ignored, but most of them are debated in 90% of the cases of laws coming to the Assembly by emergency procedure, without any explanation, giving real reasons why this emergency procedure is necessary. The laws are passed quickly, and then after a few months, changes and additions are re-corrected in parliament. On the other hand, the public is not familiar with the legal solutions proposed. As MPs, when we are having a debate, we are discussing laws that are not in any way related to each other, which are impossible to discuss in a single search, only to save time and so that parliament does not work, that is, to do effectively, as the ruling majority thinks it should. Since it is obvious that the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure are not enough, we have proposed a law on the proposed law. It should define the way laws are proposed, the obligation of public discussion to each law, the obligation of the law to be in the assembly procedure for 15 days, except in exceptional cases, when urgency must be justified, and not as is today the case for the emergency procedure of the law on the national academy and the amendments to the Law on Civil Servants, the deadlines for adoption of the budget. These deadlines, which are specifically for these two call laws, have long passed. They passed in July of the month, if you watch the budget calendar as defined by the law. There are many such examples and in order to avoid that happening in the future, we have proposed this law. I know and I believe for two years that MPs understand and feel it, but because of party discipline, the MPs of the majority do not want to do the work of parliament differently. I understand why it is not in the interest of Parliament's leadership. It is quite clear why it is not in the interest of a government that runs away from this Parliament as a devil from the cross.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21535	Thank you. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21536	The Law on Public Media Services for a year and a half, since it is the opposite of the time when Aleksandar Vukic and SNS were opposition and when they announced that the electricity tax would be abolished, almost two years ago, it was reintroduced, contrary to promises, fees charged, miracles, in exactly the same way, with an electricity bill. What's different from the previous legal solution is that now you can't not pay this tax. You used to be able to pay the amount for spent electricity, and if you wanted to pay the tax, you could or could not. Afterwards, the public service had an obligation to sue you, and that almost never happened. Because of the government's propaganda and announcement that this tax will be abolished, that bill eventually fell to below 40%. Of course the public service funding was compromised. The government, contrary to its promises, has paid back that tax, called the public service fee and practically obliged you to pay, and today this fee is in that percentage of how many people pay electricity, or however much you pay the amount of electricity spent, will first be reduced to the amount of the tax, and then will be allocated to the debt for electricity. What's the problem with this is that the law didn't provide for a release in case one household had multiple electrical numbers, and that happens primarily in rural areas. There are electrical counters for auxiliary rooms, for some workshops, where, of course, no one uses public service services. Now citizens have the obligation to pay that tax several times, without being able to free these fees, because the law did not provide that in these cases you could free yourself. Our amendments to the law go in the direction of leaving the possibility, i.e. that the law foresees that only one number of citizens can pay this fee, which is in accordance with the Constitution. You can't charge one thing several times just because the public service was unable to organise the collection of its fees and its claims in a different way than to tie it to an electricity bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21537	I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on financial support for the family with children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21538	For me personally, this is one of the most painful topics. The fact that for two years we have been proposing amendments to the Financial Support Act with children and the ruling majority refuses the proposal. The explanation we received from the government, why not accept this law is an invitation to wait for the task force of the ministry to complete its draft law. The government didn't even get along with the solutions we're proposing here, but she said we'd give ours. But the question arises – when will this happen? For three years, Minister Vulin has been Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, and for three years he has promised to make this law. He was justifying himself with one election, another election, all sorts of things, and then he ended up running away from that function. He's having an affair with Minister Djordjevic. They've switched places. I have to admit, until recently, I didn't understand why Minister Vulin didn't do anything to amend this law. I realized that he thought that every cricket in Serbia probably had an aunt in Canada who could, when he accepted something, send 100,000 – 200,000 euros, dollars, whatever help the child and his nephew in Serbia. Unfortunately, this is not the case and there are numerous families in Serbia living today in poverty or the risk of poverty. A colleague today, explaining proposals for one of her laws, stated that the threat rate to poverty is 41%, according to RZS. So 41% of the population in Serbia, according to this 2015 data, is at risk of poverty. Since the government has done nothing, nor passed this law or adopted a strategy to combat poverty, I believe these numbers are even more dramatic today. This government and the new minister still have no solution we continue to hear the announcement in line with the promises – soon, in a month or two, no more than six, and then after a year again the same explanation. I urge you to vote for this bill to show concern for 40% and more citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21539	Thanks, time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for the vote - 18, against - no one with abstentions is present. This proposal was not accepted. Ambassador Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21540	Thank you, President. For a year and a half, we propose amendments to the Law on Culture. The essence of the amendments to the law is that cultural workers, who receive the greatest European, world-wide awards for automation, are entitled to national pensions, in the same way that they are resolved in the case of top athletes. In various ways, I have been trying to talk here in these three minutes about the importance of culture, quoting the statements made by the representatives of the government, in situations where it was appropriate for them to present themselves as someone who cares about culture, to various other historical statements of many statesmen and great thinkers. But unfortunately, adopting and putting this point didn't happen. I think the best explanation, why this didn't happen, is the fact that two young men who protested on the streets of Belgrade six months ago, in a protest called "Cultura Against Dictature", who on the streets of Belgrade sought more culture, as a way to cope with the crisis in which the society in the Republic of Serbia is located, is now in a situation that they have to go to the wrongful judge, to answer for what they did, even though then by the President of the Republic, Minister Stefanovic told them that they had nothing to worry about, that they could freely protest, that no measures would be taken against them. Today we see that measures were taken, that measures were taken at that time, that police officers in civilians were going past these protesters and were carefully keeping records of what kind of passwords were exclaiming. Do they yell - ua dictatorship, do they shout - we want culture, and that's why they should go to the judge for violations. When they are fined with 100,000 dinars that do not have to pay, because they cannot find a job in the state of Serbia, they will have to go to prison for 100 days. This is the relationship of this government to their citizens and to culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21541	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Excise Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21542	The essence of this law is that the sweetened soda and ungained drinks, artificially sweetened, are taxed with a special rate. Every time I prepare for a discussion in these three minutes, I find new examples of how countries in the world are dealing with the problem of unhealthy nutrition, increased obesity and diabetes, as a consequence of obesity. In order to get the attention of my fellow MPs, to finally deal with this issue, and for a year, I have no understanding. To be honest, I don't think there's going to be one today, and we're going to miss another chance of doing something with one of the burning problems, I mean children in Serbia first. One news report a year ago said, according to one study, that the frequency of obesity in children has increased five times in Serbia. One of the main reasons, if not the main reason, is the poor diet and diet in which they ample sweetened, the experts sweetened drinks and food. There are various countries at various levels facing this problem, looking at the problem and trying to find a solution. The last example I found a few days ago is that Canton Sarajevo in schools forbids chips, sweets and sodas, and instead the state will allocate money to fund a healthy meal in schools, in Canton of Sarajevo. Unfortunately, no level of government here deals with this problem, and at all levels of government it's SNS. It is obvious that SNS becomes a party that primarily serves capital, large capital, not citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The finance minister did not want, when we proposed this as an amendment a year ago, to adopt the Excise Act, but therefore went to the Koka-cola celebration in Serbia and to talk about profit, business conditions, but not about the lives of Serbian citizens. I invite you fellow MPs to do something about this, to adopt this law, which should allow for better health.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21543	Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 19, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21544	Thank you. Here, I see the MPs of the government constantly reject all draft laws by the opposition, concerning the lives of citizens in the Republic of Serbia, and you do not mind that, if it is part of your campaign, you are calling on the opposition to dialogue. The law I'm proposing here is already more than 20 times as far as I suggest it is, I've even offered MEPs to propose it, because as far as students are concerned, because it concerns students who have to exercise the right to scholarships, because they need to remove those irregularities that exist today, that mayors, the presidents of the municipality can't because of the collapsing of the law to scholarship their students and students, because they violate a law on student and student standards unless this Law on local self-government is changed. In fact, you want to be silent today that the main topic in Serbia is how the easiest and where to go, that young people are not planning to stay and live in Serbia today, that Serbia is among the first in the world even after the outflow of high education personnel, and of course you don't want to do this simple thing, which is to put this law on the agenda and help parents of talented and talented students and students to be able to finance their education easier, not to mention that you don't even want to provide free textbooks for schooling, which directly violates the Constitution, which is unacceptable for one such home to violate the Constitution as the highest act of a state. In fact, you're obviously only interested in young people when they should be your capillaries, when you need to put them on a list of safe voices, and when you really need to help young people, they're always here somewhere at the start of priorities, because you always, mostly, have some bigger priorities. What's the worst thing yet is that even those young people who are educated by parents, who are top-level students with great averages, there's no place for them in the state administration, because their seats are taken by drivers, taken by waiters, and that's what the ministries in state institutions decide today on the state of things in the Republic of Serbia. So please, if you didn't want to accept this proposal 20 times and put it on the agenda, I am offering it to the Members of the SNS or any other ruling party, or I am calling on the Government of the Republic of Serbia to propose it, to adopt this law in order to remove these current shortcomings, so that we can grant students and students without breaking the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21545	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 19, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by a point - draft law supplementing the Law on corporate tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21546	We had the opportunity to listen to all of 2016 that it was the year that was declared a year of entrepreneurship, that more than 40 legislative regulations and legal acts would be changed, in order to facilitate the functioning of private entrepreneurs in the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, none of this has happened, private entrepreneurs today serve the state to fill the register, that inspection services as harrakes go and charge fines to private entrepreneurs, without any warning, because it is necessary to fill the budget to be able to manipulate your media. So we have a surplus in the budget, but on the back of citizens and on the back of businesses of the Republic of Serbia. I, who knows which way in turn I propose, propose two concrete measures to facilitate our entrepreneurs' functioning, which is to reduce the tax base for all those entrepreneurs who, on an indefinite basis, employ workers for the total amount of net earnings paid, as well as for those who work in devasted areas, underdeveloped areas of the Republic of Serbia, to free them from profit taxes for three years. Unfortunately, this is not enough for your attention, you do not want that law on the agenda, even if we know that the European average is that with over 50% of GDP in EU countries, small and medium-sized enterprises are currently participating. They have not been the priority of this government for five years, because they are the priority of those who come from a world of diverse investors, whom you worship with 10, 15, 20,000 euros per employee, and our worship for inspection services, which should survive in such an environment. Because of such a policy, Serbia today has the smallest minimum profit in the region. Serbia today has 189 euros in minimum earnings, while Montenegro 193, Macedonia 195, BiH 207, Croatia 409 and Slovenia 614 euros. The same thing is with the average net earnings you announce, I don't know how many years it's going to be, 500 euros. It can't even be 400, because 396 was in August of the month, according to the Statistics Office. So, it is no wonder that these net wages in Serbia are less than in the African countries, and this is the result of this relationship with entrepreneurship, with small and medium-sized enterprises and with one view that in Serbia we can produce results and employ citizens by worshiping various foreigners with the funds of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which you took from pensioners, employees and others.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21547	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the situation in the media after the privatisation process. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21548	Thank you. As early as May this year, I proposed a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the situation in the media after the privatisation process. Unfortunately, the ruling majority rejected it then, although she did not mind you talking during the summer about the catastrophic state, attacks on journalists, you point to situations where some journalists are fighting, and some journalists are getting into apartments as well. Unfortunately, this is all due to a radically implemented set of media laws, which you have targeted, so that today you manage 90% of the media in Serbia, both national and local media. That is why it is necessary to form a polling committee, in order to determine the right situation after the adoption of the law and the privatization of the media, because today you have replaced only that ownership control with financial control, so today you control all media in Serbia, no matter who owns it, by giving them again from the Republic of Serbia's budget certain funds, but only the like, to function. So you have a situation where local self-government out of their budgets is a substantial sum of a few dozen million to single out for media funding. This is funded by media that are tasked only to promote those who are representatives of the SNS, and those other political entities or citizens who have something to say at the site, they do not exist for the media. That is why it is necessary to form a polling committee and to establish that and the ownership structure, to see who the real media owners in Serbia are today and what the media is doing today. If we don't, we can't even talk about dialogue, we can't even talk about democracy in the Republic of Serbia. That's why I'm asking you to go into dialogue today. If you call us as an opposition to dialogue, here, I invite you to a dialogue on the state of the media. If you are so upright, if you are doing all right for Serbia, if everything the president of Serbia is saying, the prime minister and minister of everything and the director, then let's free the media. At least give the Public Service, funded by all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so that we can relocate with that president or with anyone in the opposition, not just for your personal promotion. So the announcement of a media strategy announced by the minister, a new media strategy, is something to follow after the polling committee. First, let's determine what the situation today is in the media, who is doing what with the media, what REM is doing in Serbia today, and then we'll go into a new media strategy. If you really want to do something in Serbia and to fight for media rights, prove it in action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21549	I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21550	Thank you. This is also a law that is of a technical nature and has systemic significance, especially as regards local self-government and local communities, which are now recognised in the Law on Local Self-Government. Today, we do not have local communities that are functional and that have certain powers. I suggest already who knows how many times to increase their powers, so regardless of what is likely to be done by 95% of the local communities in Serbia today, it is important for the lives of citizens in local communities. I propose this law to ensure that local communities are respected by introducing the obligation to form local communities in both rural and urban areas, and to get rid of funding by making 80% of the tax on the property of those people living in a local community available for funding and the local community itself, so that they can have their own resources in the way they decide on their own priorities. Unfortunately, you don't want to put the law on the agenda, and that proves that both local self-government and local communities today are only part of an octopus that runs from the top of the state and doesn't want any kind of decentralisation, any kind of financial decentralisation at the lower levels. These people today, who are running for both local self-government and local communities, are aware that they cannot go as Serbian citizens to run for office, but must be part of a story by some party and therefore it is necessary to amend the electoral law, to ask people who live in certain environments what needs to be done there, not to have someone from Belgrade or any president of the municipality or mayor giving them charity according to his personal opinion. We have had the opportunity to see in previous years, and we will probably see this in this when the budget is discussed, as the finance minister and prime minister treats some local self-government, cities and municipalities with dozens of millions of dinars because they want to hide their incompetence with the funds of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So don't do it like that, just systematically solve the problem. Give cities and municipalities enough resources to function normally within the jurisdiction they've been entrusted with. Also, allow local communities to function as they are, in fact, formed within their responsibilities at that lowest level of government.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21551	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Miroslav Aleksic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21552	This is also a law that we propose more than 20 times and with one particular reason and a view today, because today in Serbia, around 640,000 agricultural holdings, about two million people live on agriculture and receive wages in agriculture. Today, small agricultural holdings are the largest employer in the Republic of Serbia. I'm sorry that you don't see it, and I'm sorry that you've done everything in the past five years against what you said you'd do when you came to power in 2012 and what was in the SNS program. You have reduced incentives for farmers, reduced milk premiums, reduced incentives for plant production and regression to fuel and incentives and measures per hectare. I will remind you, in 2012, the SNS said that the economic and political definition that agriculture should be a strategic economic branch, that the agrarian budget will be significantly increased and that its height should be at least 5% of the total budget, with a minimum increase of 1% in each year next year, which means that in 2017, if you had not lied to the citizens of Serbia, we would have 10% in the agricultural budget. Unfortunately, it is below 5% today, less than in 2012, when you promised and violated the Budget Law by being below 5%. On the other hand, you today, in addition to reducing giving to farmers and people working in agriculture, preparing the introduction of vouchers, to introduce legal flows and those working on agricultural land today, and to take farmers for their contributions and taxes, and that should be paid, but first you need to look at the state of farmers, whether they can survive, and then pay workers. But you need it to manipulate the data again and say -- here, we've reduced the unemployment rate, we'll probably have 5% when you bring in the vouchers, because anyone who works on a farm one day will have paid contributions and will probably be an unemployed person for you. So, you don't use at all in these five years of agricultural potentials, you talk about agriculture only in pre-election campaigns, there's no serious strategy, except that you give the country to foreigners, as we did in Vojvodina where you gave the company 10,000 hectares, of which 3,500 have to go to Karajordjevo, where they should have taught our couples how to actually process the country, and this teaching ended so that they have four times less than our pair today, which is no wonder, since, as they say, there's a major contractor of works and farmer brother of Prime Minister Andrej Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21553	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Milan Lapčević proposed that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. Would you like to explain?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21554	The Honorable Chairman, I have proposed to amend the Law on Value Added Taxes in the part concerning the elimination of value added tax for baby products and equipment. Serbia, unfortunately, is one of the oldest nations in Europe, with almost 43 years of average age and a negative rate of natural origin that has been characteristic years ago. According to the Republic Statistics Institute, it is estimated that Serbia has lost nearly 400,000 inhabitants over the past 10 years, and that we are losing a city the size of Prepolje, Književec or Vienna, or somewhere around 40,000 people die more than they are born. I also welcome the Serbian government's intensities and many times in the exposé of the desire to work towards increasing natural growth in Serbia. I also welcome the establishment of a portfolio-free ministry run by Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, which will concern natal policies and concerns about increasing the birth rate. But one of the key measures for parents who have small children is to abolish taxes on equipment and baby products. When we adopted the budget of the Republic of Serbia, in December of last year, the finance minister abolished, i.e. the Budget Law has abolished the current rule that parents collect bills for spent goods and products for their children and that the value added tax is being charged six months and that they are being paid back. The budget law for the past year abolished this possibility, so that the benefit that was a relief for parents was lifted, i.e. they were practically forced to impose another new imposition – paying taxes on equipment and for baby food. I ask that this thing be corrected and that, through changes to the Value Added Tax Act, the baby equipment tax is fully abolished, in order to encourage parenting in Serbia and increase talent.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21555	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MPs Milan Lapčević, Dejan Šulkic and Gorica Gajic have suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments to the Budgetary System Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21556	We have proposed an amendment to the Budgetary System Act that defines the choice of the Fiscal Council. As you know, the Fiscal Council elects the National Assembly under current law and this Fiscal Council counts three members, and they are elected on a proposal from the President of the Republic, the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank. We do not think it logical, given that the Fiscal Council is engaged in monitoring monetary and fiscal policy in the Republic of Serbia, which is largely dependent on the solution and on the work of the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank, and it is not logical that exactly the finance minister and governor of the National Bank propose members of the Fiscal Council to monitor their work and, of course, assess the fiscal and monetary policy of the Republic of Serbia. The proposed amendments provided that the three members of the National Assembly of Serbia are also elected to the procedure for selecting members of the Fiscal Council, to be initiated by the responsible Committee on Finance of the National Assembly, and that the right of the proposal has, as so far as it has been, the President of the Republic of one member, one member to propose a Conference of the University of Serbia, because it is an institution that brings together the most private people and can propose an adequate solution, in line with the needs of the Fiscal Council, and that a third member proposes the Union of Economists of Serbia, which is a professional association, a professional association that can propose a person who deals with the problems of fiscal and monetary policy and can adequately respond to these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21557	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 5, against – no one. I find the proposal not accepted. MPs Milan Lapčević, Dejan Šulkic and Gorica Gajic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point of the draft law on amendments to the Labour Act. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21558	We have proposed to amend the labour law and Article 187 which defines under which conditions the employer cannot fire the employee. Namely, this congregation majority, or a similar congregation majority, brought about amendments to the Labour Law a few years ago, under which the workers ’ rights, or employers, were drastically reduced, were relieved of many of the obligations they had until then. We believe that in this case, Article 187 was not well foreseen under which conditions the employer could fire the employee, because not all those situations that threaten the employee to the point where he could lose his life without the employer having any obligation to leave him at work. You all know the case of June of this year when, July of this year, when the employer Jura fired an employee who has been treated for years for malignancies and received chemotherapy and of course was unable to go to work and therapy and that the employer refused to extend her labor contract. We think that this is completely inhumane and we suggest that in situations like this, protection for those people who, because of their serious illness, because of the fractures, those situations of life that threaten their lives, must predict that the employer cannot quit people who are fighting for life, and this depends on them for existence. Imagine someone having had some serious surgery, having to be rehabilitated for six months, a year or two, as with malignancies, heart surgery or severe fractures, and at the same time the employer asks him to return to work or he'll get fired. We find this extremely inhumane, and Serbia has always been a human country and I think this is extremely logical and should be accepted as an amendment to the Labour Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21559	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for -6. I find that no proposal has been accepted. MPs Milan Lapcevic and Dejan Šulkic proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point-by-point draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21560	As was the case with several MPs from the opposition and today's session, I also proposed that, of course, my colleague Šulkic amend the Law on Encouragement in Agriculture and Rural Development, in that part which discriminates against small producers, small cattlemen, whose central, southern and western Serbia is mostly represented. Therefore, those households, mainly an old woman, who have one or two cattle throats and who cannot comply with the applicable Agricultural and Rural Development Act and with the incentives in agriculture and rural development, are able to achieve the possibility of a subsidy, i.e. a milk premium. Under the current law, only households that hand over a quarter of 3,000 gallons of milk can claim a 7 dinar subsidy, and those that do not reach that height, or quantity of milk delivered, will be cheaper, practically cheaper for those 7 dinars that do not receive as an incentive from the state. We think it is extremely incorrect and unfair for those people who have one or two cattle, and there are hundreds of thousands of such households throughout Serbia, especially in central, eastern and western Serbia, who practically, having one or two cows, support themselves and their family. By abolishing, or discriminating, these people who cannot reach 3,000 liters of milk quarterly, or 1,000 liters per month, practically throw these people into poverty and prevent them from being in the same rank as those who have farms. Why would a liter of milk by a peasant who has one cow be less valuable than a liter of milk to one who has 20.30 or 50 or 100 head of cattle? We think that indeed Serbia must take care of the equality of its citizens, and this is one way that will best be able to show how equal all its citizens are at heart.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21561	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -9, against -no one with abstentions is available. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Parliament's Marinika Tepic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law prohibiting manifestations of neo-Nazi and fascist organisations and associations and prohibiting the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and markings. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21562	I thank the president. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to appeal to article 88. Rules of Procedure, let's try to determine the quorum, because I have a reasonable doubt that the quorum is not presently present.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21563	Please determine the quorum. Please insert your cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find there are 108 MPs present in the O.R. I'm setting a break by 3:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21564	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's continue our work and ask that we determine the quorum at the very beginning. My colleagues are signaling that there are certainly enough MPs in the O.R. (Balsa Bozovic: How the hell? I'd like to ask you again to establish the quorum. Since my colleagues have indicated that someone's card has been inserted, that the MP is not present, I ask you once again to establish the quorum. Given that we in the technical service are signalling that 128 MPs are present in the hall, and that we do not have the opportunity to establish this electronically, in accordance with Article 88, paragraph 8, I suggest that if the electronic voting system is not in place, which, in this case, the chairman of the National Assembly, informs the MPs, the quorum is determined by the count of the MPs. So I suggest we determine the quorum by counting the MPs. Thank you. I'd like technical services to perform the count. Radoslav Milojic: What is this? Hold us for 15 minutes. ) Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, according to Article 88, paragraph 8, have been found to be present in the hall 131 MPs, so we have a quorum for continuing work. (Marinika Tepic: You have to determine them. ) Also, I want to inform you, because of certain technical problems that we have in the electronic system, that we will vote publicly in accordance with article 125 on each supplement. So, Article 125. The Rules of Procedure provide for such vision and manner of declaration. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the sittings – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prohibition of Mandates of Non-Nazi or Fascist Organisations and Associations and to prohibit the use of neo-Nazi or Fascist Symbols and Marks, which it submitted to the National Assembly on 25 October 2016. Is the Parliament of the People's Parliament of Marinika Tepic answering for a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21565	I would ask you first just to give us an explanation that the technical service and this system don't work when the quorum is to be determined, and now that I've applied for the word, it works? I'd just like to ask for some basic information. Secondly, we are establishing or trying to determine the agenda this morning from 11 o'clock, but key minutes, or the previous 30 minutes, have failed to see Serbian citizens during the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21566	counterpart Tepic, do you want to explain the proposed supplement.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21567	Don't interrupt me while I explain the agenda. So this is one of more than a hundred draft laws that the opposition is asking to put on the agenda, and it doesn't keep happening, in the first row because we've been late for half an hour, even though you haven't had a quorum for an hour and a half. You didn't have enough extra half an hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21568	counterpart Tepic, would you like to explain the proposed addition of the agenda? I remind you – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law prohibiting manifestations of neo-Nazi or fascist organizations and associations and banning the use of neo-Nazi or fascist symbols and features. I am not a representative of the Technical Service to count, it is for the technical service, and when it comes to the Presidency, I am solely the Head of the Rules of Procedure, which I have done in the follow-up of this session. Can not get folder: %s: %s
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21569	Of course I want to explain and of course I want to know if there is enough quorum to determine and vote the points proposed. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21570	You obviously don't want to explain. I announced two minutes ago that 131 MPs were present in the O.R., in accordance with Article 88.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21571	It also corresponds to Article 88. Rules of Procedure, the MP has every right to request the establishment of the agenda. I will not abuse that provision of the Rules of Procedure, but I have a reasonable doubt that the necessary quorum exists for further decision. I'm on my way to explain why, because since 11 o'clock this morning we're sitting here, your quorum fell just two hours ago, and I have a reasonable suspicion that there's a quorum at this point. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21572	Comrade Tepic, would you like to explain the bill? You don't want to. Thank you. Since the National Assembly must plead on your proposal, I am putting this proposal to a vote and proposing that we declare ourselves accordingly to Article 125. Rules of Procedure, Rule 2. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia - by raising hands. Who's in? I'd like technical services to count. Who's against it? (One) Who's restrained? (No one) Please deliver the results of the vote. I declare that it voted 11 for, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 November 2016. Does the MP Marinika Tepic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21573	Of course I want the word and of course I want you to give the exact information to the MPs. Don't make fun of the National Assembly. You left out how many MPs did not approach the vote. He's voting on my draft law to supplement the agenda. I want to know, I have the right to know how many MPs have not joined the vote. I want every item, which we usually get in the electronic system, to know what the numerical result is, or the outcome of the vote. Don't joke. I'm asking you, if we're going to count, to count everything, or call it in. I'll explain my bill further, although I've been waiting since this morning since 11:00 and two hours of trying to determine the quorum. So I'm looking for an amendment to the Criminal Code, which was changed last year. It seemed that some of the provisions would make sense, such as a new member of the Criminal Code, which punishable, or criminal, the denial of war crimes and genocide. However, like everything the legislator is doing at the moment, the parliamentary majority of the SNS is just changing something he does not believe in, which is not behind, and the same is the case with this criminal act, because it has left out the judgments of the most important courts concerning our country, which is the UN tribunal of The Hague and the International Court of Justice. So, by criminal law, you've introduced here that it's a criminal offence, or criminal denial of genocide and war crimes, and then you've decreed that it applies only to the judgments of domestic courts, so the courts in Serbia, the International Criminal Court, which means that any genocide committed in Rwanda would be a criminal offence for us if anyone denied it. With this addition, I ask that particularly international courts dealing with war events and the consequences of war events in the former Yugoslavia, as well as the International Court of Justice, be seen as being in international law, as is the case with all other courts. The fact that they are ad hoc courts does not put out of force or not adjudicate these judicial rulings is the only difference in the duration of these courts. So, those who are temporary and those who are permanent. So I ask you that if there is any sense here and if anyone who has been a legislator and who has raised his hand to amend this Penal Code stands behind why he voted, he should understand that this supplement is the only real solution, and everything else is the eye blurry and alibi of the international community that, whether, God knows how, Serbia has decided to deny genocide.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21574	Thank you. My colleague Tepic, before we move on to a statement about your proposed supplement, I am setting a break of 10 minutes. I want the technical service to check the correctness of the electronic system again, and after that, we'll continue to work. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, we continue to work. After a break of 10 minutes, I got information from the technical service that the electronic system is functioning and accordingly, I want to start by establishing the quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21576	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. I ask the National Assembly to count the presence of MPs. (Balsa Bozovic: Out of the question. ) I find that in accordance with Article 88. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, 130 MPs are present in the hall. We're moving on with our work. (Radoslav Milojic: I counted 120) I am putting the motion to complete the agenda of the National Assembly with the draft law supplementing the Criminal Code. I ask the National Assembly's service that, in accordance with Article 125(2), we declare ourselves by raising our hands. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'd like the National Assembly's services to deliver the results of the vote. One was for, no one was against, one was abstention. We're moving on with our work. (Vladimir Djuric: How many did not vote? ) National MP Marinika Tepic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Games, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2016. Is that what someone's been looking for in the Rules of Procedure? Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21577	Mr. Arsic, you've violated the 130th and more views. So you decided, since you saw that you couldn't provide a quorum for more than two hours, to apply Article 130. You were the initiator yourself. I saw that you approached people in the technical service, came to the chairman then, and then as someone who feels he knows the good Rules of Procedure and that he can save the whole situation and celebrate, which, of course, won't come your way, violated article 130. If you wanted to do all of this, you first put yourself in the role that was not assigned to you at that time, because it could have been chaired by Mrs Radeta who would have found that the electronic system was absolutely correct and that you did not have sufficient number of MPs. You haven't done that. You've already applied article 130. You were obliged to ask if any parliamentary groups wanted to appoint their representative in the vote by counting. You didn't do it, but as flies, you ran from one place to another, so your individual colleagues dared to count us and count us, to approach us, to point a finger at us, and to the people of the professional service. Please, Mr Arsic, let us restore the level and dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the manner prescribed by the Rules of Procedure on its work, not by playing something that does not exist, or quorum, which is determined in the way that you have persuaded Martinovic and the rest of your parliamentary group to continue to chair. So, that tone of yours, so tough now, you're the great Veroljub Arsic, so you're going to tell us if we have a quorum or not. We don't have it and you know it very well, using the electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21578	My colleague Natasa Jovanovic, you weren't in the O.R. and how do you know what I was doing? (Natasa Jovanovic: I watched TV. Have you looked at the transmission? Okay. You're right, and if you want to, you can... (Natasa Jovanovic: I want the Assembly to declare itself. () Would you like the Parliament in the day of voting to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21579	I don't mind. I'd like you to pick one of them out. Who wants to count from your parliamentary group? Won't anyone? Well, then what did you suggest? Would anyone like someone in front of an opposition MP group? Please, here, the promoter doesn't want to. Does anyone want to count with these women? Is it such a big problem? So my question is very clear to move on, does anyone want to? No one here wants to be involved. The promoter doesn't want to. Do either of you want to count along with professional services? You don't want to? Don't consult like we're in the UN. So no. Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Marinika Tepic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21580	I thank the presidents and hope for a more reasonable follow-up to the session. I'm sure you'll show it. I shall advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure in Article 88, that is, those provisions concerning the determination of the quorum. We were on several occasions, before you took the meeting, expressing suspicion that the quorum was gone. Turns out we were right, we waited for more than two hours to determine the quorum. In parallel, we had the most unpleasant throw on the other side. So, insults, which is also a violation of the Rules of Procedure in Rule 105, when the MPs of the position told us that we are idiots because we repeatedly seek to determine the quorum. Then we're idiots, and the other side's fine, which two hours can't provide a quorum. So please bring order to this session. It's in my best interest, let's say my proposals for supplementing the agenda are in progress, but I ask you to do as the Rules of Procedure says. We had several times that the electronic system wasn't working. I'm talking to him now. That's what happened in the last series. He didn't work while the quorum was fixed, and when I had to speak and take the word, he worked. Explain to me, please, or let someone in the technical service explain to you whether there are sensors on certain words spoken, so the system works for certain sentences, and for some it does not work. I'm obliged to say, I wonder how many laws are laid down in this way without enough quorum?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21581	Thank you very much, we overstepped the violation of Rule 88's Rules of Procedure, which position exactly or the whole member? Do you want to vote? Tell me exactly what attitude, because it says things here. The paper says that the president of the National Assembly can decide that the quorum is determined by counting the MPs. You didn't say that. What did you make me say? (Marinika Tepic: Item 5) Item 5. – the existence of a quorum is determined by the application of the electronic system that each is required to identify when entering the hall by inserting, meaning it does not refer to this case, when entering the hall. So I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken, you say yes. I'm asking you, do you want us to verify that by voting? (Marinika Tepic: Yes. And point 7.) That is right, I will now use this position – if the system is not in place, which is being notified by the MPs, the quorum is determined by the count of the MPs. What's the offense now? Nothing. Now I'm using attitude eight and I'm asking the services to start counting those present. Someone has to run parliament, can't run 250 people parliament, not even a company can run one man. So, make a deal, whatever you want. Now that you see that we're going to count, now you're laughing. Here you go. It was asked to be counted, Article 88. I pray peace and quiet so we can do our job, and the opposition's intention is quite clear already next session, here I was, I wasn't the problem, and it wasn't good again. Be kind, the departments close the O.R. so we can work. So anyone in there. Count that messenger standing in the hall, 134 without an MP holding his hand, we don't know whether he's in the O.R. or not, half is not. We have a quorum 134. We're moving on. Parliament's Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Games of Happiness. Here you go, the vote. Please count who's in favor, who's against and who's abstention. Who's in? Nobody. Who is against this proposal? One. I'm not the one to count, so we have employees here and services. Who's against it? Who's being held back? Tell me the results. One for, no problem, no abstentions. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Parliament's Marinika Tepic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. Here you are, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21582	Thank you. Here, now the system's working again. It's really weird. So this law makes me think that the most secure part of the income that has been centralized and taken away by municipalities and cities, which is part of the income tax at the end of last year, is that they are not only damaged, but that they lead the inhabitants of these municipalities and citizens astray and, of course, all of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, by leaving them in the amanet of future generations of enormous debt. The ministry and government as a proposing, last fall, I say, took away the municipalities and cities the safest part of the income, I will repeat, part of the income from the profit tax. She poured them into her central register and central budget, left municipalities and towns with far less income than they had on this basis and brought into the situation of municipalities and cities to take loans, to be in debt, each individually with hundreds of millions of dinars. If we start with Pancheva, Zrenjanina, Nis, Nis is in millions of euros in debt for jobs that fall under regular activities, such as maintenance or school creation, or for example. the home of health, which is in the primary jurisdiction of the units of local self-government, i.e. municipalities and cities. With this centralist move, taking away the safest part of municipalities and cities' incomes, you decided to better fill the central republican budget in Belgrade, and thus damaged the lowest levels of management of municipalities and cities without income, so that their administrations would be further in charge of what they have enough funds from these revenues you have taken from them. Now I don't know if it's for example. Aleksandar Vukic, when making a promise to paint and arrange all the homes of health and school in Serbia, actually made a promise to banks where municipalities and cities were in debt or citizens. The only thing he lied to them then and promised them would have an additional loan, additional neck weight and an additional problem would be their children and grandchildren when they were due to return, as tax bonds and loans taken by the mayors, the president of the municipalities as regular activities. Therefore, not for the necessary or unnecessary things, but for the maintenance of elementary educational and health institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21583	Thank you. Dejan Radenkovic, is the system in any way or injure the Rules of Procedure? Wrong, good. (Marinika Tepic: Is the system working now? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's not the same to give a word with a microphone and what I understand doesn't work. I would like to put to the vote a proposal from Marinika Tepic. Who's in? (Marinika Tepic: How do we vote now? By raising your hand, there's the service. You remember the time in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in that second building, so it was counted. It's gonna be okay when we finish this part of the job, and we're gonna take a break and by morning, I guess. For 12. Who's against it? Who's being held back? I'm closing the vote and I'm announcing it. You heard there were 134 present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Can't turn 12 into most, a little bit of seriousness. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be supplemented by the points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21584	I answered, just tell me what the law is since I haven't heard, I have nine.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21585	Proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21586	Since this is not in order, it is a law proposed, the Government Act, that all candidates for ministers, before the election for members of the government, are subject to a medical examination that is otherwise passed by all people employed in the public sector, whether they are the institutions of the administration, whether they are public enterprises or others. To read it correctly, I know you're very interested in it and you have full attention. Therefore, it means that above the members and members of the 11th change and that there are – health skills, incompatibility and conflict of interest, so it says – before the government is elected, any proposed member of the Government must provide the National Assembly with medical assurance of the health capacity to establish a working relationship in state bodies. A member of the government cannot be in another public office in a state body, an entity of an autonomous province, a municipality, a city, a city of Belgrade, or perform an act that is legally incompatible with the duties of a member of the government, or create the possibility of a conflict of public and private interest. A member of the Government is obliged to comply with all the regulations governing the conflict of interest in the exercise of public functions. I know this is a dangerous proposal to amend the law, I know that it would hurt deeply the feelings and feelings of the special position of many people who are now members of the government, but I can tell you that there are worse things. For example, it could say that no government member should have an aunt in Canada, or that some member of his family has an aunt in Canada. There could be even worse things. So, in general, we've been witnessing, not just for the last five years, but for the last five years intensively, that medical examination is necessary to get hair carriers in the government who will be people you can communicate with in a valid manner. Not the opposition, but the government has changed, you, as members of the government, have changed many ministers in the last five years, especially because you were dissatisfied with their understanding of reality, their moves, their proposals. So, for both of you today and the opposition tomorrow, I suggest that this be a basic condition beyond which it cannot be crossed. It means no one can be chosen if they don't pass the medical examination. I repeat, it was done once in Serbian history, when the government of Zoran Djindjic was formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21587	Here, I'll vote for this proposal. Is that where everyone's covered, both the MPs and everyone? (Zoran Zivkovic: No, this is next. That's next? Then I don't vote. (Zoran Zivkovic: No, now I will - I won't. It's not an electronic system. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Who's in? (18) Who is against it? Nobody. Who is abstentioned? Nobody. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Labour Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21588	The labour law is also about health. In the Labour Act, Article 187 paragraph 1 changes and reads: “During pregnancy, maternity leave, leave of work for child care, leave of work for child care and leave of work due to temporary prevention for longer than 30 days, an employer cannot cancel his employment contract. ” It was very interesting to see why it was funny to someone. Why is the proposal that I suggest he can't get fired from someone who's in a different state, who's on maternity leave, who's absent from child care, for special child care, because of temporary prevention for work longer than 30 days so he can't get fired while he's in sick leave, I don't know what's funny about it? I don't know what higher national interest prevents the majority of parliament from voting in favour of this proposal? Who would lose this? Who can have negative consequences for that if this bill of mys is passed? Who is more important than pregnant women, from the health of children and from the health of people who are by force of opportunity, not by their own will, brought to being away from work for more than 30 days because they are sick? Who's more important, are these some of our friends from far away but friendly countries that have always helped us, but we've never felt any of their help? Or are they secret investors? Or are they some who dig and make water and Belgrade water? Are those your new friends with Kim? Is that someone in Brussels you're going to scare with some letters, some mailman from Brussels? So, I call on you as citizens of Serbia and as people to vote to amend the law that will allow during pregnancy, maternity leave, leave of work for child care, leave of work for child care and leave of work due to temporary prevention for 30 days, so that the employer cannot cancel the employment contract. It is a measure of value whether we want Serbia to be healthy and to be better for those children and everyone else tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21589	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Who's in? (17) Who is against it? Nobody. Who is abstentioned? Nobody. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. (Alexandra Jerkov: Rules of Procedure! Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21590	Thank you, President. I answered the word after you did a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you didn't give me your word right away. You didn't tell us, in accordance with Art. 124, 125 and 126, the results of the vote on the previous law proposed by Mr. Zivkovic, you only found that the law was not passed. You took that vote as a joke. It seems to me that this whole session and all the laws we're proposing you take as a joke, but the Rules of Procedure obliges you to announce the results of the vote after each vote, which you haven't done, so please at least make something appropriate to the Rules of Procedure from everything that's going on here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21591	I did, but you didn't hear. I appeal to Article 130, which says that, if voted by hand, MPs first declare who is in favour, who is against, who is abstention, etc., and after the vote is done, the result of the vote is announced. So, for, against and abstention, I said so. It was 18 for you. (Alexandra Jerkov: You didn't say, we didn't hear. ) Do you want to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure? (Alexandra Jerkov: Yes. Thank you. National MP Zoran Zivkovic proposed that the agenda be completed by the meeting – Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the election of the President of the Republic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21592	Thank you very much. It's the same from a set of health laws, for the sake of the nation's health. It says in the Law on the Selection of the President of the Republic, the "Official Messenger", which, in Article 11(3) after point 2), adds point 2a, which reads - medical assurance of the health capacity to establish a working relationship in the state bodies. This law should also enter into force on the eighth day of its publication in “The Official Messenger. ” Of course, if necessary, and we agreed on that, except that someone showed by voting, and someone with their own shame, that candidates for ministers must have medical assurance, it is perfectly normal for the president of the state to go through the same treatment, because he has a slightly more important or much more important function than the question of a member of the government, or a minister. We have many examples in history, not only in Serbian, but also in the history of the world, in the history of Europe, but also in Serbian history, that the heads of state were people who could not pass a medical examination for various reasons. Some are self-recognizable and some are part of history, so we have various lunatics who have led many countries, including the states of Serbia. It has to be prevented. It's not good for anyone. Because when it's crazy at the top of the country, it spreads very fast into the depths and it's a kind of infection that leads to all sorts of things. It could even ruin the voting system in parliament. Therefore, it is very important that we also fight for the health of those children in the previous bill and for the health of pregnant women and for the health of women in maternity care, but of course also for the health of politicians. Why burden them with certain things, certain obligations that are far beyond their health skills? When such a thing is, let's say you pick someone who hasn't passed, you might see yellow people from Morava, you might see a channel that connects two river basins, one Black Sea, another Aegean, can happen to them different dangerous things, and because of him, and because of his family, and because of his party, and because of his friends, comrades, domestic, foreign, traitors, I don't know who he is, it's important to prevent a man who hasn't passed a doctor's examination from coming back to the head of the country. I ask that with that understanding of the future, and also for today's situation, you vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21593	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Who's in? (15) Who is against it? (No one) Who's restrained? (One) I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21594	I have two draft laws concerning amendments to the Law on People's MPs, one about advertising, the other about medical examination, so I don't know which one you mean. So one changes Article 49 and the other changes Article 44. You have to tell me who it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21595	The law you submitted on 12 January 2017. I don't have any other data here. I'm waiting for you to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21596	Okay, then I'll talk about one thing and then another. So, if this is the Law supplementing the Law on the Selection of National MPs where Article 44(2) is amended after point 1, point 1a is added, which reads: “The medical assurance of the health capacity to establish a working relationship in state bodies. ” Since we agreed that medical examination is necessary for both government and presidential candidate members, of course, for reasons of solidarity, but also for the personal security and security of the state, it is normal that such treatment should also be given to candidates for MPs. Since there are most of us here, the most likely representation of people who do not have the right medical ability to perform their duties is in parliament. Since the President is one, whether he is healthy or not, there are 20 people in the government, so someone is healthy, someone is not, but there can be no more than 20 of them incompetent, while 250 people sit in parliament. We will agree, from the many situations that we have had both in this congregation and in previous synergy, that there have been some phenomena that have spoken of that people in one, the other, or the third, or the fifth way were obviously not able to perform their functions. Some don't hear well, despite having a hearing aid that's, on the outside, good for it, some don't understand things, some people don't understand things on purpose, and many people here are seeing yellow people on Moravi, all kinds of things. That's why it's necessary to get health assurance, like for these people who work with us, who work here in this service, either as security, the cameramen are probably going through the same thing, drivers, everyone else is going through. Why don't we as candidates for MPs do this little effort to go to an adequate health institution and get medical assurance that we're capable of working and hiring in state bodies? If we came to that, I think the situation in parliament would be much calmer, more constructive and better laws would be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21597	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Who's in? (17) Who is against it? (No one) Who's restrained? (No one) I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the law on higher education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21598	Thank you very much. I think it's the third year this bill has been in the process and every time I get a chance to repeat it and repeat it again, I'm going to repeat it today. When we discussed the laws on higher education and the basics of education and education last week, there was also a competent minister who said that they accepted it or that they would accept it, there was a little change in the formulation, so instead of "academic honesty", the term "academic integrity" was used, if I'm not mistaken. I think it's the right place for these changes, which is the right place for you to have besides the healthy presidents, members of the government and the MPs, meaning who passed the medical examination, and we have among those officials, public figures and people who haven't dared to copy, steal, forge doctorates, diplomas, and I don't know what hasn't happened in the last five or six years on our scene. We have, slightly, dubiously, I think, counterfeits at the level of the former president of the state, at the level of members of the government, at the level of MPs who used different titles, as if they hired this firm to whale Belgrade, but when you look a little better, the former president of the state graduated on Sunday, some ministers were doctorate, and no one was reading what they wrote, since the work was in Serbian and no one from the commission knew Serbian, so this Mali had a doctorate who was rejected at one university, so accepted on the other in the same text, so it's very dirty. I'm doing it for you. I finished my schooling a long time ago. She's 34 years old. (Serboljub Filipovic: What are you done with? ) Ask your colleague from second row, I think his name is Stanimirović, ask him where and when and when, ask him, I am not ashamed of it. But for you. I see in one piece you still desire to win another title in late years. You can't make a third league champion. That can't even go to football in Serbia, let alone politics. But it is less important what will happen to such people who have such attempts, it is much more important what will happen to Serbia. There's no luck in a country where education workers are excess, no luck in a country run by forgers, frauds and liars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21599	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Who's in? (17) Who is against it? (No one) Who's restrained? (No one) I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21600	This 2015 proposal, but it's still up-to-date. Starting with the principle set out in Article 16. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia rests on generally recognised principles and rules of international law. In view of the UN Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of the Crime of Genocide, it was adopted at the UN Assembly on 9 December 1948. Considering that on 24 April 2015, a hundred years after the launch of genocide against Armenians, carried out by the Ottoman Empire in the period 1915-1922. Given that more than 20 countries, including the Russian Federation, Greece, Belgium, France, Canada, Cyprus, Italy, Switzerland, Argentina, Uruguay, Sweden, Lebanon and others, have recognised and condemned the genocide of Armenians, carried out during that period. Given that the commitment of the Republic of Serbia to international principles and rules on the prevention and condemnation of genocide is also expressed by the Law establishing a museum of genocide victims, which, among other things, was established on 22 April as the day of marking the permanent memory of the victims of genocide against Serbs, Roma and Jews, I propose a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians, committed in the Ottoman Empire in 1915-1922. A few months ago, I had a meeting with Ambassador Azerbaijan, who informed me that in consultation with some colleagues from other parliamentary groups, he had made a proposal to adopt, as many countries had done before us, and a resolution on Nagorno Karabah. For those who do not know, it is the conflict of Azerbaijan, Armenia, around this territory, something that could somehow be compared to Kosovo, not directly, but indirectly. He didn't mind that I was one of the promoters, or today the only one who proposed this resolution on crimes against the Armenians. I call on my colleagues to vote in favour of this resolution, and I also encourage the work to come before us with a motion for a resolution on Nagorno Karabah. So, practically from a country that is in conflict with Armenia and in that resolution, it will be proposed that the conflict in Nagorno Karabah be resolved by international law. I think it's in Serbia's interest that every genocide that has been committed against both our citizens and our Serbs, the punishment and that the same archeic applies to us and our victims, but also to every other victim, either in our region, or in some other part of the globe of the Earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21601	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21602	That's the second person in advertising. What's important and we've been witnesses many times, meaning not only in the last election, but in the elections, I think in the last 10, 12 years, it's that huge money is being thrown out for campaigns, which, by their aesthetic criteria, by their political values, or by anything that could be called positive, don't justify those resources and that time. These are overpriced campaigns of political parties that are then in power. That was true not only of this coalition, which has been in the last five years, but of some earlier coalitions five years ago, and some have boasted about how much money they spent. This was about dozens of millions of euros. It is certain that there are far more important needs in Serbia for Serbian citizens who, now being thrown at these ugly ads, could use it, not to talk about treating children, not to talk about repairing schools, not to mention the big action of fixing toilets in Serbia, of which the current president of the state has given up. Of many things, it is much less important that some party leaders are photographed one way or another in a photo store, or without a photo store. I therefore propose that, following Article 49 in this law, Article 49a, which would read - it is forbidden to rent a term in all electronic media broadcast in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, to submit electoral lists for the transfer of election meetings, political messages and advertisements. This would not reduce citizens' ability to get acquainted with political programmes, as these ads do not otherwise help them understand political programmes. On the contrary, the real thing is a duel of shows you don't want to participate in, especially the president of your party. To inform you, the proposed legislative solution prohibiting television advertising by political parties and the list has been applied in laws in Great Britain, the Netherlands, Sweden, Norway, France, Germany, Ireland, Spain and other countries, and those countries must surely be called democratic countries where parliamentaryism and citizens' right to information is respected. Therefore, if a campaign can go there without commercials from overpriced and ugly on TV, I am sure it can happen in Serbia, and that money is used for one of the thousands of things that Serbian citizens need today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21603	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Who's in? Please count. I conclude the vote and declare: there is no one with abstentions for – 13, against – 13. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on secondary education and education. Does he want a word? No, he's not here. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Fundamental Education and Education. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. (Bosko Obradović: By Business. Yes, go ahead. The word is Bosko Obradović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21604	Thank you, Chairman. I'm referring to article 88. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and the last ninth position which it says – if the President, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, raises doubts about the existence of quorums identified by the count of MPs, it may be requested that the quorum be determined by the pronunciation of the MPs on which the National Assembly decides without a search. So we're really expressing our suspicion, and there's no reason to suspect that the government has no quorum to maintain the first regular autumn session. I really think we should remove that suspicion. It is impossible for the electronic system to work for anything other than to determine the number of persons present in the hall. So either by calling you really determine whether you have a quorum or I don't know what other way to prevent that suspicion in public that you're really trying to run the Assembly, and that you don't have the elemental conditions, which is that you don't have most of the need to determine the agenda and start a regular session. So, a very well-intentioned criticism by directing your attention that by calling it out, we really confirm that there are more than 126 MPs in power, because it will remain a constant doubt that you are missing 126, and then the Assembly cannot work under these conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21605	This is a classic abuse of the Rules of Procedure. We've already found five times the way you asked. Yeah. Five times has already been established. (Bosko Obradovic: There was no pronunciation, there was a count. ) (Marinika Tepic: There was no nickname. Can I answer that, or are you going to cloud the essence of today's obstruction? So I can say something. Come on. So it's not "come on", it's either hear or not listen to the president or the chairman of the Rules of Procedure. You said it made it impossible for the agenda to be established today. Since 10:00 this morning, we're setting up a agenda and we're going to work as long as we don't determine it or maybe we don't get it by voting. Oh, my God. There's one possibility and another. Oh, yeah. We can go to the election as far as I'm concerned, it's not an absolute problem. And the fact that some MPs have no patience, so they're not in the O.R., so now we're voting, and they can't explain it, that's another problem. Yeah. So there are 138 MPs right in the O.R. I said that there was an abuse of the Rules of Procedure by a member of which you called Section 8. So MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law amending the criminal code. He's not here and I'm putting this proposal to the vote. Here you go. Who's in? Take it easy, take it easy. You will wait after all four of your proposals have passed. (Marinika Tepic: It is not true. They did, they did. Take a stenogram and don't keep yelling about how you're right. Here's a stenogram and then apologize if you're mistaken. No noise. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for -4, no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21606	I thank the presidents and point out that you have injured, in my opinion, Article 107. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and the dignity of the National Assembly by delivering just before incorrect information. As the quorum was determined, in more than two hours of attempts by the parliamentary majority to establish the quorum, you did not chair, and perhaps, on purpose or not intentionally, you have a failure to inform, as did last week, what actually happened. In the microphone, because you were the only one involved, while you were answering your colleagues to Boska Obradovic, you said that five times already established quorum in the way he asked for it, which is not true. He was looking for the final position of the 88th member, which I wanted to advertise, too. So that's attitude 10 of the quorum to be determined by a pronunciation, in which the MP has the right, if there is a doubt that the quorum is previously established correctly. Not once has the quorum been determined, let alone five times by a roll call. That's what my colleague Obradovic was looking for, which I would otherwise support, as would most of my colleagues. Please don't deceive the public because you have the privilege of having the microphone on and you won't let us point that out. You did not preside during the afternoon, and you may not know that no call occurred once, which we have the right to look for under Article 88.10. I repeat, let me be perfectly clear. Please do not enter into the evaluation of anything you have not witnessed, which you have not attended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21607	You didn't attend when I read your name and the proposal to supplement the agenda, so I didn't disqualify or insult you. You don't want me, either. Hold on to that. So just because you weren't in the O.R. doesn't mean you're not familiar with it during the session. I didn't hurt Article 107. You want to vote on it? Did you say article 107? Yeah. I thank you. So this bill didn't go through. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21608	I thank the president. Article 27, which obliges you to conduct this session as your Rules of Procedure, not as far as you can think. You know, we're sitting here in the O.R. and we see the MPs coming out of the O.R. all the time. And when we ask to re-establish the quorum, it's because we saw that four or five colleagues, or even more came out of the O.R., because they keep coming in and out, and it's impossible that when, here and now they come in and out. Please, see, it just can't be the same number if someone came out or came in. Please determine what is wrong with the electronic system, and then at each vote, let us see if the number of MPs present is greater than 126 or if we will have to ask each vote to re-establish whether there are 126 MPs, because it is obvious that MPs of the ruling coalition are unable to sit and listen to suggestions just because you don't press the bells. So the MPs keep coming out of the O.R. and insults our intelligence to convince us that the number of MPs present has not changed, if we see them coming out of the O.R. all the time. Some doors are open, nonstop is circulation, impossible to change the number. So either let the electronic voting system be repaired or before each vote to determine whether there are more than 126 MPs present in the hall, because otherwise we simply do illegal work. I don't think it's in anyone's interest to make decisions without having the number of MPs we need to make decisions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21609	We've got a quorum, 'cause article 27's not hurt. Thank you for warning me that I'm in charge of the session. I'm going to go over your malice because you're saying I'm running a session as far as I can think of. Something comes to mind, but it doesn't occur to me to abuse the Rules of Procedure, and constantly looking for quorum would be abuse of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, who is not here, suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point in the draft law supplementing the Health Insurance Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law supplementing the criminal code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Who's in? Who's in? I asked who's in favour, don't disturb the course of the vote. So don't try that. Who's in? Who's against it? I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 9 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Labour Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21610	In accordance with article 88, I'm going to ask you to establish a quorum. Why am I looking for this? Now that you've made the vote, you've announced the number of votes against the number of abstentions. Each of these proposals has been given to most of them. In the end, you did not say how many votes, or how many MPs are present, because you do not have that information. In order for you to realize that some proposal hasn't received most of it, you have to say how many MPs are in the O.R. So now you've done a few votes. You counted 10.11, 12 and 15 votes for, none against, none abstentions and you realized that the proposal was not adopted. If the proposal hasn't been adopted, you must know how many MPs are in the O.R. I ask you, it says nicely, I have the right, I can ask for every time, at any vote, if the electronic voting system does not work, I ask for a quorum to be counted by the MPs – Article 88 paragraph 8. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21611	Position 8 of the National Assembly may decide to count the quorum by counting the MPs. In other cases, I haven't decided. Thank you. So this is a classic abuse of the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Krasic: Take notice. I don't want any warning, no problem, it's clear to everyone here what it's all about. (Marco Djurisic: I ask that we plead. ( b) What is to be said about? Marko Djurisic: Shame on you! Don't yell at me – shame on you. Don't yell at me, and don't act like it's the worst way possible, how he doesn't behave in cafes, in cafes. What did you say? That I'm a donkey? Thank you. Ambassador, for the first time in my life, I've heard I'm an ass. Thank you. But I'll take it, too, but it really doesn't make sense. I didn't say you were a donkey. I said don't make us donkeys. ) National MP Dusan Milisavljevic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -14, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. How many are there? A lot. He's 136, and you know it. (Marko Djurisic: You always read.) I've never even read it when it was an electronic system. You told me I was an ass, refrain from communicating with me. Go ahead, it's not a problem. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law amending the law on the capital. 'Balsa Bozovic is not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -9, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the law on defence. Balsa Bozovic is not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, for -10, against - no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the facts on the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in the lawless destruction of buildings in Belgrade's Savamal district and to determine the facts of the responsibility of the person who destroyed those facilities. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the termination of the law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Labour Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution of Maja Gojkovic from the post of National Assembly President. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21612	We submitted a proposal for your discharge from the post of National Assembly President on 13 April 2017. A group of MPs submitted this with an explanation at that time that the suspension of the work of the National Assembly, during the presidential campaign, severely violated dignity, reduced the importance of the National Assembly, and severely violated the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The second reason is that you also injured Article 104 and 106. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 19. Law on the National Assembly, as well as Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which define the authority of the President of the National Assembly, and you have led the work of the National Assembly to the blockade. So you then estimated that during the campaign, the Assembly would not work for the sake of stability and confirmed that you consider the Assembly a source of instability and joined those who would like to make only one decision in the Republic of Serbia. These are the reasons why we made this decision just over five or six months ago, but you have managed to prove and give new reasons for this initiative. Today's session of the Assembly has just shown that in the election of the new government, the new prime minister, we have been able to listen to its exposés in which one of the key promises was digitisation in Serbia, the modernisation of Serbia, and today in the Assembly we are voting by hand, we have people from the secretariats who count the votes for, against or withheld, in the impossible that two-and-a-half hours in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with all the funds invested in this electronic equipment, count how many MPs are in the Republic Assembly and do we have quorum. It is inadmissible and it raises great doubts about the work and transparency of this most important institution in our country. We had this in the case of the last sitting, when amendments to such important education laws, when MPs had the opportunity to give their amendments and explain them in their parliamentary right, when, according to the electronic parliament and the statistics of software, which many say is extremely well done, we had 255 minutes to discuss, we have evidence that at that moment, when the electronic parliament showed 255 minutes to discuss amendments and to correct such important laws, that you interrupted the debate and said that it was spent all the time, and by hand recording and identifying the MPs who proposed their amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21613	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-sufficient, will ever be able to do so. I find that the National Assembly did not accept the proposal to include the proposal for the resolution of Maja Gojkovic from the post of National Assembly president and that the proposal received seven votes. The public works. Here you are. The word has a national emissary, Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21614	Member of the Rules of Procedure 108 – Maintaining order at the sitting. So several continuous violations of the members of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to listen to me very carefully. First, at this point, the MPs are unauthorized to take power into their own hands and take cards to the MPs of the opposition. Secondly, a quorum was established during the session more than half an hour ago. You know that the course of the session involves a certain period of time in which, unfortunately, the MPs of the government, instead of sitting in their seats and doing their job responsibly, are coming out, so the quorum is not something that was established once and forever stands as a established fact, but on the contrary, the witnesses are also citizens of Serbia, who can see that the quorum does not exist. It exists for a moment, so it doesn't exist. Shameful is the way you tolerate us to discuss things that are extremely important in an illegal way. That's what you did last Friday. It is your obligation that when you say that "for" voted how much, you say how much was "against", of which number, how many MPs are present in the hall. We are witnessing that this number is changing from minute to minute and that the fact that you tolerate an illegal process of adoption of the agenda, and we saw last week and the adoption of amendments and the adoption of laws, is something that you shouldn't remain without this Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21615	Dear MPs, you're wrong. You're referring to article 108. The first person to take a card in the hall unauthorized was MP Zoran Zivkovic. No one reacted. He got up and took the card of MP Karic. It's all right, take a stenogram, I guess you remember what you said. Secondly, according to the Rules of Procedure, the chairman only speaks for how much it was for, against and abstentioned and nothing more and no more fiction. If it was only seven, it couldn't be 250. Don't abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You said an unauthorized card was taken. I agree, Zoran Zivkovic took the first one unauthorized, I did not react, and I will not react. But, fair enough, Serbian citizens saw Zoran Zivkovic walking through the O.R. There are no criteria for each other. So it's the same. If I give a warning now to the envoy who approached you, I will give Zoran Zivkovic as well. If that's what you want, fine. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21616	Thank you. Dear President, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, honourable citizens of Serbia, I am reporting a breach of Rules of Procedure Article 130(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The decision in the National Assembly shall be deemed to be made when the President of the National Assembly finds that it was voted by the majority prescribed by the Constitution, by law and by this Rules of Procedure. When you realize that "yes" voted for, for example, 15, "against" no one and "abstained" none, you have no mathematical elements, it is clear to the student of primary school, to realize that most are prescribed by the Constitution, by law and by this Rules of Procedure. So you can't declare that it's not the majority. You can't say it's not most. 125 MPs are required for the qualified work of this house and most of at least qualified Members are required. Please, when reading the results of the vote, read the fourth term, how many MPs did not vote, because that fourth term is necessary to add whether or not it voted more than 125 MPs. This way, you're in an illegal way running the Assembly. I ask that we declare this in Vote Day, because you illegally and closed the debate on educational laws, when you declared that 600 minutes of change time had expired, although in the electronic parliament of this house it was 257 minutes. In this way, educational laws have been passed illegally, as over four hours of debate on amendments have been taken illegally by MPs of all MPs. You chair this house and lead it in an illegal manner. I am now asking you – will you declare the outcome of the internal dialogue in such an illegal manner? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21617	Thank you. So the minimum for a decision if it was 126 is 64. Nothing can be doubted. There were seven votes for it. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the session agenda... The People's MPs of the DS detest. ) Obstruction is allowed, only slowly. It can't be converted from seven to 64. The minimum minimum is 64, first grade is basic. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the determination of public interest and special procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the implementation of the project "Belgrade on Water". I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 14, v – 14. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21618	Thank you. Since the financing of political parties, or activities, has been defined through two laws, I have already talked about this in the draft law amending the Law on the selection of MPs, and this is in the same tone, where it is proposed to delete that position in Article 23(3). It makes it impossible to spend people's money on the bestidic aesthetic, political, human and any justified campaign of political parties, especially those who spend national money in their campaigns, in large amounts, and these are ruling parties. This, I repeat, does not mean that only SNS and coalition partners have been doing it for the past five years. It's been done before. And, in order not to work in the future, I suggest that advertising of political parties, the applicant of lists, candidates, that this advertising cannot go through electronic media, or via radio and television, primarily via television, because the largest part of the money spent on campaigns is over 80% of the money spent on stupid advertising on television. I was already talking about how there are much better ways to spend that money and that there are much more needed things for the citizens of Serbia, children, pregnant women, unemployed, socially endangered, marginal groups, cultures, sports, whatever you want, traffic safety, than that, and it is estimated to be close to 100m euros per campaign, that money is spent on makeup, photoshopped, dishonest, lying statements by political function holders. I think that's what we all want to do today at least something good. This is a dreary day in the Serbian parliament, one of the dreary ones, otherwise there are no sunny ones long ago, but this is one chance to show our concern for the nation, the state, the system, the future, however you want to define it, and to show that we are ready to subtract from the self-loving politicians the opportunity to spend people's money in huge quantities and target it for anything. Are these folk cuisines in KIM or is it a children's clinic in Tirshova, or is it the final completion of the reconstruction of the National Museum, or is it paid medical examination for candidates, for presidents and members of the government? Anyway, anything that makes more sense than what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21619	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The word has a national emissary Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21620	Article 108 has been injured. - on the agenda of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly. The Honorable Chairman, you are not a scandal master, you are the President of the National Assembly and I ask you to behave accordingly. I could tell you a lot of things, too, what you said to the MPs. However, you've been crying very often lately, and I have no intention of making you cry. In addition, Article 107. - a session of the National Assembly is not allowed directly to address the People's MP to another MP, and the taking of private property or anything owned by another MP cannot be a single speech. So we're working in total congregation misunderstandings by opposition. We haven't properly established the quorum, the manual voting, and that's at the session where we need to discuss the e-business law. It's beyond all criteria, complete nonsens. I am really asking you to take over this session in a way similar to the President of the Assembly and in a way similar to the dignity of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21621	Thank you. I won't comment. Probably the head of your parliamentary group will say why he took private property and card from Ivan Karic. That's what he'll explain to you. I don't know if it was... (Sonja Pavlovic: The head of the parliamentary group is not here. He's not the boss? Then Zoran Zivkovic. Don't fight. I won't cry for you, believe me. Sonja Pavlovic throws. The tears are just fine. It depends on who challenges them and how low they can go to insults. Let me tell you something, MPs, I will refrain, but when you tell the person with the disabled in the house to harass the disabled, the tears are okay, and you should be ashamed of what it is to make fun of you. Well done, go ahead. I'm not ashamed to admit it in public and in my weakness, and you should be ashamed to take every opportunity to hurt a man. It is not a private property for you, and it is a public property, and the Messenger has no right to manipulate the card, nor to leave it in the hall, when he is not in the hall. It's your fault, too. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21622	This is the same old bill. He's been in the process for a few years. It is not adopted because it would prevent wild construction in Serbia, especially in the city of Belgrade, where it is the most visible, besides the historicly largest wild construction in the history of humanity, which is something called "Belgrade on Water", which is what is half in the water, half curved, half legal, but according to some laws, some Arab countries, not according to Serbian laws. It's not the only example, you have in every major street, in any part of Belgrade, one illegal building. I keep mentioning Nebojsin 8a, I think, is being built next to the ban, next to the order to collapse, which has brought in a competent inspection or authority of the city of Belgrade. Construction continues with a pat on the shoulder of Vračar municipality head and the ministry responsible for the area. This law affirms a law that was passed in 2003, which envisioned criminal responsibility, means prison, for whoever starts to build without getting all appropriate permits to the building permit that is last in that series. Of course, the law was excellent, but the first next power to come after a few months compromised the law by the then competent minister starting to create a large facility, his own personal, against the law, so that the law was annulled. Affirmation of the rule of law, the affirmation of a law-abiding state, thus creating conditions for investment is the interest of everyone in this country. It would be good to show it in the most obvious places. I repeat, "Belgrade on Water", as the most spectacular example, every street, including Nebojsina 8a, has an example of this, and that respects the non-compliance of the law, leading to the fact that we are at the bottom, not regional, but European states, by investment, by GDP growth, by standard, by minimum wage, by average wage, by the number of employees, by all. In the end, since you mentioned it, I left, seeing a poor and unprotected card, to save it and brought it to you to watch over Ambassador Karic who didn't show up in the O.R. half an hour after that act of humanity. It can't be compared to an act of MPs, I have no idea what it's called, from the front row, which came to pick up a card from my colleague who wasn't there for a minute, and it can't be compared. That card isn't public property.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21623	We're talking about agenda proposals. I'm sorry that you showed that example that you can take cards. I'm sorry it came from you, and don't take it out in public now because of your procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find this proposal not accepted. National MPs of the Dveri group suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on the Genocide of the Independent State of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21624	Thank you. Dear citizens of Serbia, respected fellow MPs, this is already who knows which way to try to put the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the agenda, for the first time since World War II, something that should have long been found on the agenda of the National Assembly, a resolution on the NDH genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II. Here, I'll quote to you what Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic said the other day at the Jajinca Memorial, where a state memorial was held in memory of the Second World War shootings, when he said the killed Serbs, Jews and Roma in World War II should not be forgotten. And here, right here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we have forgotten them, where no such resolution has been passed for more than 70 years. In addition, I will quote the president of the Association of Campers, the prisoner of Jasenovac, who asked us to finally put on the agenda a declaration of genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma, which they also handed over to the Assembly with the signatures of 54,000 Serbian citizens. They say, "It is time for Serbia's top crime committed during World War II in NDH to call the real name genocide. “, said Slavko Milanovic, president of the Jasenovac Camping Association. So, esteemed colleagues, dear brothers and sisters, I have begged you many times, if you need Dweri to withdraw this motion resolution, that you suggest. Because if you won't adopt anything proposed by the opposition, here, I suggest you propose this, and we will support you. This is a matter of general national interest. This is a resolution on NDH genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma, and you find that ridiculous. It's funny to you that someone who after more than 70 years wants to put things in place, to remember those who suffered during World War II, to adopt such a resolution at the highest state level in the House of the National Assembly. Is that funny? Is it funny or don't you want to put this on the agenda just because it's proposed by someone in the opposition? If that's a problem, I'll withdraw this proposal. You suggest, we from the opposition will support you. We don't have that problem, this is above party stuff. I am sure that every SNS and SPS voter would support this resolution that the DVERI are proposing, and you as their representatives in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia do not want to suggest it just because the proposal comes from the opposition's ranks. This isn't about our party division. This is a national and state issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21625	Time. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Who's in? Fourteen. Who's against it? Nobody. Are there any abstentions? No, there isn't. ) I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs of the Dveri Group asked for the agenda to be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21626	Thank you, Chairman. Since their entry into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the court has testified to keep their pre-election promises. In fact, before we joined the Assembly, we concluded a social partnership agreement with the Association of Retired Unions of Serbia and the Association of Retired Soldiers of Serbia and made a commitment to represent them in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That is how the draft law on amendments to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act came on the agenda. What exactly is this about? When you robbed pensioners in Serbia three years ago and reduced their pensions, then you did one more thing against the economic security of our oldest citizens. In fact, you then kicked out of the law in article 80, one important thing that said that at the annual level, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has an obligation to coordinate pensions with the cost of living, i.e. price increases in Serbia. So, you robbed the pensioners twice. First, when you cut their pensions, and then you shut down the pension level with the cost of living that keeps growing. This is where you endangered Article 70. A constitution that clearly requires the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to take care of economic security is retired. You've even made a kind of discrimination against our oldest citizens. Why? Because you decided to rob them and charge the state's budget instead of paying extra taxes to foreign banks, that you additionally taxed tycoons, that you charged extra taxes to foreign companies that don't show their real business here, but are making profits abroad. You didn't have the courage to hit the tycoons, the banks, and the foreigners, but as you did, the advances, you hit our oldest people, the pensioners, and robbed them not only for 10%, how much you took from the state administration, but for more than 20% of how much you took from the pensioners. The second thing we pointed out here is a desire to protect the assets of the PIO fund, as the PIO Fund has built a huge number of large investments in Serbia. We're stating here that in 15 court cases it's been confirmed that it's the property of a PIO fund. 12 other disputes are under way with good prospects for courts to confirm the PIO asset fund. This is where we can fill the PIO fund, because only the PIO Fund can dispose of its assets and place it in the function of domestic economic development, not that you privatise and sell it to your business partners from Germany, Arab countries or who knows where.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21627	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Who's in? Fifteen. Who's against it? Nobody. Are there any abstentions? No, there isn't. ) I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs of the Dveri Group have proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21628	Dearest citizens, respected pensioners, on October 28th of this year, will soon be three years old and will be robbed by the government of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, it's been true for three years that the Interim Retirement Act is in force, so now tell me the respected citizens, which is the law that carries the word temporarily in its name, and it's been going on for three years? It's clear that nothing is temporary here, and now I have to remind the public that you kicked out that member of the law that said that this law would only temporarily apply for three years. Now we understand why you did it, so that the law could actually apply unlimitedly and that you could rob our oldest citizens, here, for three years. We'll see how long. What I would especially like to stress once again is that we have submitted this law together with our partners from the Association of Pensioners of Serbia and the Association of Unions of Retired Military Persons of Serbia and that this is also their work and their contribution, and the Dvori are just their voice here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What may be most important and perhaps so far has not been enough in focus, this draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary payment of pensions, we not only abolish this robbery and theft law of SNS and SPS, not to mention the PUPS that has long betrayed the interests of all pensioners in Serbia, but this law obliges us to make up for the pensioners everything that has been robbed of them during your power. Here's exactly what it says in Article 3. – The bill lays down the right to an unpaid pension difference with a tight interest. All pensioners will be paid the difference between the amount of pension determined by a valid solution and the amount of reduced pension that has been confirmed under the Retirement Law. This difference is determined by the total amount for the entire period of application of the law, and paid in the number of wars corresponding to the number of months for which pensions in the past have been paid. The bill also provides for the PIO Fund's obligation to adopt a solution for each user to determine the amount of pension gap, payout dynamics, the amount of war with the corresponding interest and the date of arrival of each war. So, we, not only are we going to abolish this robbery bill of yours that you robbed our oldest citizens, but we are going to make up for everything you've taken from them in the last three years. If you keep robbing them, don't let our pensioners worry, when the Dvori wonder and decide and be in power in Serbia, they'll be given back everything that PUPS robbed them, what the SPS robbed them, what the SNS robbed them, and what we all know well, it was stolen from our pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21629	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Who's in? (12) Who is against it? Abstained? (No) I find that there is no one with abstention who voted - 12 against - there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MPs of the Dveri Group proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2017 election process, from the day of the presidential elections to the day of publication of the temporary election results at 99.9% of polling stations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21630	Thank you, Chairman. So that's exactly the word - from the election day to the election day, until the election day itself is stolen in the elections. I don't see why we shouldn't form a polling committee and the presidential election this year, when you're so sure there wasn't any election theft. Isn't it the most normal, respected colleagues in power to form one such survey board, to prove that there was no electoral theft and thus deny all that we are talking about from the opposition? The moment you don't allow a survey committee to be formed, you've admitted your election theft. So you admit that you stole the election, because you did steal the election and no one slowed it down. You've stolen them in many ways. From that anti-constitutional guidance on voting in KIM which cannot be different from voting in the rest of Serbia, through the failure to form the National Assembly of Serbia's Supervisory Board, through the failure to update the Single Election List, through the blackmailing of all public administration employees who threatened to fire if they do not collect 20 safe signatures for Alexander Vukic, to abuse of state institutions and resources for the purpose of the government's campaign, to the Bulgarian train and theft at the polling post and in the election day. So you're constantly stealing the election. You steal first of all from media thefts, because don't forget, there's no free choice without free media. Your leader, president of Serbia, acting Prime Minister, head of all secret services and SNS President Aleksandar Vukic, has not made a direct television duel in six years, although he has promised to do so on several occasions. We don't have any more political shows in Serbia today. On no Belgrade television with national frequencies, there is no face-to-face, there is no possibility of hearing the voice of the other side. We only have 24 hours of SNS propaganda, via Pink and other party reports of your authority. So we don't have a free election. But if you already claim that this is not true, then support the formation of a survey board so that the National Assembly together determines what is true. So you're not going to support that? So you stole the election. I am pleased to see that in front of the whole Serbian public you are now confirming that you are thieves and that you stole the 2016 elections and 2017 elections, because if you do not vote this polling committee, that means you recognise the election theft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21631	Let's vote first, please. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please, let's finish this part, and we'll go second. Who's in? Ten. Who's against it? Who's being held back? No, there isn't. ) I conclude the vote: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Goran Ćirić suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. Here you go. You want to sign in, please. I'm putting it to a vote. Who's in? Ambassador, you're asking for what bill you've proposed in the first place. Who's in? One. Who's against it? Who's being held back? (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. Please don't yell, don't disturb. Now you're in the O.R. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Here you go, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21632	I thank the president. In accordance with Article 88. Rules of Procedure, I want you to establish the quorum no matter what I have not been in the O.R., since I have seen a few SNS deputies leave the session again and that the quorum has been asked again to continue to work in quality and of course in the spirit of this Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21633	Only the head of the parliamentary group could do that. I'm not going to give you a heads-up, even though it's obviously the intention to abuse this institute. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21634	Dear President, you haven't given me a chance to talk about the previous law even though I have three minutes, making an observation that I'm looking for a law, and I could have kept quiet here in three minutes and used the last second and talked about one important topic. We're talking about our responsibility here. Here we talk about our responsibility and all day we see what responsibility we have for the institution.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21635	Ambassador, please, there's a sentence in the record. You'd be kind enough to sign in if you'd like to speak. You didn't do it. As you can see, the microphone is running, otherwise he wouldn't be able to speak at this time. Do you want to talk about the supplemental proposal or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21636	Of course I do. Just tell me again what law you've announced me for, because I have six laws here that I've proposed. Tell me, what law is this now?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21637	I read it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21638	Income tax, yes. So, the aim of these laws, the set of laws that I have proposed, which I will talk about, as well as the previous law, was to make it a fairer social distribution in the Republic of Serbia. We have a record of what the average salary in the Republic of Serbia is and I am now telling you about the goal, what this bill should change in Serbia, and this is our fight to make life easier for the poorest citizens of Serbia. The average earnings in Serbia are currently around 48,000 dinars. The consumer basket is 69,000 to 70,000 dinars in the first seven months. Is this enough for a consumer basket? Of course not. counterpart Djurisic spoke of the poverty threshold in Serbia and the risk of poverty for 40% of people in Serbia. The bill suggests that part of dividends, belonging dividends, owns capital to be a part of which is taxed, and despite 15% of the net profit tax on legal persons, the obligation to tax income from those dividends as personal income is also imposed. So, the goal is to coordinate and target some of these wealthiest, those who have income on capital and to target some of that capital towards those people who realize, thanks to their work, the conditions for their families to survive. I remind you once again, the aim of this law, and I call on you to talk about it, this may not be the ideal solution, but to look for the best solutions to make it easier for 8% of people, it is out of seven million about 500,000 people in Serbia who are below the poverty line right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21639	I'm putting your proposal to the vote. Who's in? ( 10) Who is against? Nobody. Who is abstentioned? Nobody. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. Does the MP want a word? (Goran Ciric: Yes, I do. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21640	Thank you. The bill implies and suggests that persons are obliged to supply data from Article 2 of this law, twice during the year, on 15 January and 30 June. Article 58 adds Article 2 which reads - the sublegislative act forms a special organisational part of the tax administration, with specially trained personnel who, in co-operation with other state bodies, the MUP, Katastre, the National Bank of Serbia, the Customs Administration, the Central Securities Register and the APR, would process submitted applications as a check-in of debtors who have not submitted their application. So the reasons for adopting this law are above all - to make more effective comparisons of the assets of the natural persons with their reported incomes. We know that in Serbia at this time a large number of wealthy people have huge assets, of the overpriced cars that we can see on the streets, of the overpriced houses at the most exclusive locations in Serbia, and that they have no evidence of their incomes, and these evidence should prove itself right through these institutions that we talked about, and that is proof of the tax paid on their income. Many have spent time in the congregation hall from the 1990 ’ s until today. Here, let's compare their receipts. If the average salary at that time was, from the 1990s you had a period of 1993 when the average salary was also five marks or ten marks, so let there be 500 marks there until 2000, in 10 years they could earn legally, based on their only profession, at an annual level of about 6,000 marks, times 10 years – 60,000 marks. That's 30,000 euros against value. In the years to come, they could have done more. When you see that they haven't spent anything their whole lives, if they hadn't eaten, if they hadn't lived, they'd have made legal money, paying that tax, somewhere around 200,000 marks. When you compare their assets with those legal revenues, you can see and it's clear there's no basis to justify that property. Here is a simple proposal – to reform the tax administration in a way that will integrate all these services that can have insight into all this data, about each of us individually, and to compare property with reported incomes and paid taxes. This is an introduction to the transformation of the tax administration and I know that the law on the investigation of the origin of the property is being prepared and announced. I'm sure we'll all support this bill, and this is one small contribution to going into organisational changes in the tax administration, which is just going to meet the adoption of the law on the origin of property investigation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21641	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. Do you want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21642	These are, I am convinced, the most important topics for Serbia at this time and for the citizens of Serbia. It is simply the intention of all of us together to try to help people in Serbia overcome their challenges, and this is primarily the challenge of growing poverty in Serbia. So, I gave it one more time and I'm going to give it one more time that the proposal for these laws is above all intended to make it a fairer social distribution, but also a local and regional distribution. This is about a way to correct some of the injustices that are related to the status of local self-government and the people who live in them and their right to organise their lives in a successful way. This is a simple proposal and I'll try to read you the text, and then I'll explain. Therefore, local self-government units belong to the following taxes reached on its territory, but also outside its territory: 74% of the income tax paid to the employee's residence, except for public sector employees, including general administration and public enterprises, as well as 100% of the share in the income tax paid by public sector employees, including general government and public enterprises, equal share of the population and local self-government in the general population of the Republic of Serbia on the last census. Simplistically put, what's the idea? About 700,000 people work in public enterprises and in administration. In this way, if income tax is tied to residence, urban centres are certainly preferred, the largest cities. What about the smallest places that do not have their own ministries, which do not have the headquarters of their public enterprises, the largest public enterprises, where salaries are not received or contributions are paid for those smallest places? The idea is to make this distribution much fairer. So about 700,000 people work in public administration and total income is at an annual level of about 300,000. With a proportional redistribution relative to the number of residents living in the municipality, the town, the village, that would mean 43 euros more per capita for each city in Serbia. So for a town of tens of thousands of people, this would mean a new 430,000 euros in revenue in the budget. That money could also solve preschools and school offices, health institutions, which means a specific life for people in those smaller places. In this way, I'm sure, with a fairer distribution, we'd do a lot of work to prevent the depopulations of these very places that are mostly attacked by this problem, which is that the growing number of young people, that they go to large cities, is precisely because these larger revenues have much better living conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21643	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on the National Bank of Serbia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21644	The best introduction, respected colleagues and colleagues, for the bill of this law is what we saw today in the Assembly, it is a matter of responsibility, responsibility as a key word. The responsibility and presidents of the Assembly, the responsibility of both the MPs and all the people who run the most important institutions in the country, which is to start from the assumption that responsiblely leading our own institutions we can move things around in this society and do something good for all citizens of Serbia. The proposal for this law amending the National Bank Act is very simple. Delete article 86v, which speaks of responsibility. I'll read it to you and I'd like to agree whether this is logical or not. This National Assembly and this majority passed that law. The proposal is to delete this member of the National Bank Act. "The National Bank of Serbia, Governor, Vice-Governors, Director of the Supervisory Authority and other employees are not responsible for the damage caused by the conduct of the affairs of the National Bank of Serbia, unless it is proved that they have not acted in good faith. “ Do you think this is logical and that this is a provision of a law that is consistent and acceptable to anyone who leads at least one institution? Anyone who runs a company of three knows what responsibility he has both financially and towards the people he leads, in relation to them, and knows that everyone in the smallest segment of this society must bear his own responsibility. I'm sure the greatest responsibility we have right now is to be worn by people who are in the highest positions in the state, and so is the governor and her associates. It is our proposal to delete this member of the law because, you know, there must be a lot of lawyers here who know it is very difficult to prove that they have not acted in good faith in making decisions, such important decisions that mean both the functioning of the monetary and fiscal system in the Republic of Serbia. It depends on the economic life in Serbia, on the conduct of these policies, the dependence and conditions of exporters, our entire economy, importers, prices and lives of Serbian citizens. So, I invite you to discuss such a simple matter, that responsibility is acceptable to everyone, mandatory to everyone, and so is Governor NBS and all of her associates. The next point is that for the damages of Article 1(1), the neglects of that position, they cannot be held accountable even after the employment relationship has ceased in the NBS, i.e. the termination of the function. I think we should think about our responsibilities, think about this attitude, this article and make a simple decision and give an opportunity to pass a law like this that will have such a privilege...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21645	Thank you. Time's up. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Here you go. The word is Alexandra Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21646	Thank you. Position of five members 88. I wonder how many times, President, a quorum is determined daily? Where does the Rules of Procedure say the quorum is determined only once a day, so we determined the quorum three hours ago? Now her colleague Nikolic from Novi Sad is out, her card stands, I don't know if the cards still play any part in it. I ask the messengers not to yell at me. I'm sorry. I don't know what's wrong with you. So now you're trying to say that only an authorized person can seek to determine the quorum, I'm not asking to determine the quorum, it doesn't say anywhere that only the head of the parliamentary group can point the president to an error in conduct. I ask you, President, how many times a day is the quorum determined? I believe and I think it is clear to the citizens that you have invented that the electronic system is not working, because if the vote is going as usual, we would see that there are no 126 MPs present and therefore I ask you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure and to tell us how many MPs are present. I don't know how it's possible that the number remains unchanged, when MPs come out mass, some come back, it's impossible that this number is unchanged, and you, ignoring reality, are constantly trying to convince us that the number of MPs present is unchanged. Answer me: How many times a day is the quorum determined, and is it possible that three hours ago we have established the quorum and that you hold that the number of MPs present has not changed, although everyone who sits in this room sees that the messengers are constantly coming out? If the electronic system worked, or if you admitted it worked, it would appear that there were no 126 MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21647	Thank you. Article 88(7) speaks of who may request the determination of the quorum. You're not that person and you know it very well. (Alexandra Jerkov: You weren't in the O.R. I wasn't in the O.R., but I'll take that insult to my expense that I made up something. It's all right. I'll accept that I made something up. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21648	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that the more innovative vote was in the 1804th year of the Nuts than we have today, but it's not on me, it's on the ruling majority. This is an extremely important law, the Defense Act, such as the defence system is an extremely important system, not only for those of us who are MPs, not only for those who deal with the security system, but for the entire country as a whole. I must say immediately that I have no hope and I do not expect the ruling majority of the led SNS to support amendments and additions to the Defence Act, because their position on the security sector is clear in general when their defence minister is Alexander Vulin, and when they appointed Mr. Bratislava Gasic as BIA director. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97(1), paragraphs 4, 6 and 9. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is scheduled for Serbia to govern and ensure the defence and security of all its citizens, regardless of religious, national and political membership. The law on defence is comprehensive enough, an existing law that we want to change is comprehensive enough and does not provide answers to essential questions. One of the reasons is the obsolescence of basic strategic documents, but also the neglect of current security risks in the same situation as we are in, whether this is a situation in the global, global world, or in our region or in the country where we live. First of all, this law needs to be brought into line with other laws, such as the Emergency Act. It's not normal for us to have the Defense Act which is essentially the opposite of the Emergency Act. We have submitted a proposal to amend and supplement eight members of the Defence Act. This has been done primarily by the profession, I thank the people of the Army who have helped us to make amendments and supplement these laws and I do not see what is controversial in Article 1 that the basic strategic documents are the national security strategy of the Republic of Serbia, the defence strategy of the Republic of Serbia and the doctrine of the Serbian Army and the documents in the field of non-military exports, risks and threats. I really don't see any reason why these amendments and additions to the Defence Act would not be found on the agenda, there are eight members, and I am sure that anyone who understands themselves in the security of our country will propose that these changes be put on the agenda or position 4, which is changing and said – that basic documents are planning the use of power, the defence plan of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21649	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's being held back? I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments and addition of the Law on the financing of local self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21650	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I would like to ask you, if you could just speak a little louder, because I really don't hear what law we need to explain, and Mr. Ciric has lost his three minutes, he hasn't heard, and neither do I. I heard the Law on Local Self-Government, if you could just make it a little stronger. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 97(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the DS proposes to amend and supplement the Law on Local Self-Government, because the life of all citizens, whether they live in Surdulica or live in Subotica, is exactly the same. The Democratic Party proposes a concrete amendment to the Law on Local Self-Government, which is to return five billion dinars to local self-government, as far as SNS took away from them, just at the end of last year. To me, as the former president of the municipality, it is quite clear what the SNS and its leader want to do. You want to subdue all the presidents of the municipalities and if there are those who are not subject to Alexander Vukic and SNS, to take away all their resources, make them incompetent in front of their citizens and then you give something that is local income, which is the income of those citizens living in that local self-government. In six years, you have managed to narrow down local self-government to the fact that today, the mayor of Subotica becomes known for wanting to rip out his insatiable throat. You have reduced the mayors and municipalities to that mayor of Novi Sad, now the great expert opens up a bicycle parking lot. You have brought down to this the presidents of municipalities, which only corresponds to the SNS that the Mayor of the Kings can only open a traffic light and thus boast, and his fellow SNS expert from Leskovec opens a tap in the cemetery. Please, if you can calm the ruling majority...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21651	I'm asking you to talk about the bill and not abuse the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21652	... The European Charter, which Serbia ratified in 2007, against which you were then guaranteed local self-government, please do not interrupt me, because I am talking exclusively about the bill's proposal, the European Charter of Serbia, to guarantee to all local self-government, above all, political, administrative and financial independence. Today, local self-government has neither political nor financial independence, but depends on the will of Alexander Vukic and SNS. From 2012 to today, you have taken away Serbian citizens only through the withdrawals from local self-government of over 50 billion dinars. As far as the EU is concerned, half of EU budget revenues go to local self-government, while we only have 10.2%.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21653	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Radoslav Milojic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Information and Media.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21654	Thank you for respecting my suggestion. We have a very important law here. amending and supplementing the Public Information Act. Nikola Pasic, when doing one law, asked his associates – what is the law? When they told him that they were doing a law by which he would never leave power, he said that the law was returned and that the law was not good. Gentlemen, your political end is very close. You will leave power very soon. We therefore specifically propose that we amend the Information Act. It's not natural and it's not normal for the RTS to have zero seconds in the past six months, the president of the DS. It's not normal for him to eat Alexander Vukitch in every two-thirds of the time in every news. It is not normal that we do not have a report on the representation of political parties and presidential candidates from the presidential elections, and we know that Aleksandar Vukic took 95% of the time, the total time that was distributed to all parties. It's a voter abuse. It is the harassment of the Serbian state, among other things, the manner in which you work. Now we may not be able to blame the private media, but you know how, all Serbian citizens pay public service and it is fair that all the programs and all the leaders and all the shows, all the content, because citizens pay for the public service. It doesn't have to be an DS proposal, any MP group can give away someone who deals with the subject and we can work out the system together. You will fall out of power very quickly, as soon as in six or seven months and then the devil will be your fault, and I ask you to change this law in time and accept that this law is being discussed. I really don't get it, Madam President, why don't you react when the entire SNS group screams. I don't mind that. I'm from the village, so there are various animals there. I'm used to it, but I'm asking you to warn them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21655	I give you a warning because of what you said and what you said about the messengers that they were animals and that they were screaming and you said that you lived in the country and that you were used to animals. Thank you very much. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I thank you for your kind words. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Social Protection Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21656	Thank you, President. I just don't understand why you have something against people who are from the village, but okay, it's not on me. This is an extremely important law. The Democratic Party proposes 45 concrete solutions for a better standard of living for our citizens, 45 amendments and additions to the law. But this is one of the most important laws and one of the most important amendments to the law. We're proposing concrete things. Number one, that all students whose parents do not work are provided free transportation from home to school. We propose another concrete measure to provide free textbooks to all students whose parents do not work and to propose a third concrete measure, to provide free snack for all students whose parents do not work. I don't know if you know about the fact that about 50,000 children who are covered by primary and secondary education are hungry every day. You can talk about GDP, you can talk about investments that aren't there, you can talk about the aunt from Canada she has, but we can't let today, every day 50,000 kids get hungry. It is not Serbia that the DS stands for, while on the other hand, the SNS tycoon is rich. I'm sorry to have to take advantage of this, unfortunately, we have an example of a boy from Moll, who left the third grade high school in Vienna, because he couldn't finance a ride from home to school, and then that boy took his own life. Therefore, we suggest that all students whose parents do not work be provided free lunches, provided free textbooks, and provided free transportation from home to school. In 2015, the share of children, the total population of Serbia, was only 17.3%. Your mouth is full of things and words, but there's no part of you that you want to do anything against it. Why don't you support this so that every couple who can't be made a parent can get free out-of-body insemination? It's a good thing, and everyone's gonna take it. It doesn't have to be my proposal or the DS proposal, but these things will solve many problems both in the present and in the future. As you say Serbia is the leader in the region, Serbia is unfortunately a leader in the region, but at the risk of poverty. We're here first. I'm telling you once again, we can build bridges, we can build roads, but we can't let our children be hungry in 2017, 17% is just a share of the children of the entire population of Serbia, which makes you an old population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21657	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Who's in? I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for -16. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. Ambassador Radoslav Milojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Police Act. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21658	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens, respected officers who have been caring for the safety of us and our country, for a year now, I have been proposing amendments to the Police Act. If you'd agreed to discuss this matter, you wouldn't have a strike cop in a few days. And it's not the police who strike for some inferior reason, it's the police who strike because they're hungry, because they can't get their kids lunch because they can't get their kids a ride from home to school. A cop who can't buy books to his kids who go to school. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97(4). The constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Democratic Party is proposing amendments to the Law on Police, precisely because the state of police is extremely poor, particularly the material state. The situation is so bad that the SNS took 10% of the receipts first, from salaries to all members of the MUP, and then, too, SNS reduced all officers and all members of the MUP to 150 dinars. Dear gentlemen, a 150 dinar daily means that no member who risking his life provides us and our border can afford a single barrel. These are not the conditions in which any worker or police officer should work in 2017. Two key points of change are the addition of the Police Act. First, it says that the police ministry must determine the needs of the system and how many workers they will need during a certain period of time and hence receive a number of students at the Police Academy. Today, the most educated, most educated, most professional people who finish the Police Academy do not have a job and are not admitted to law enforcement or the MUP, and there is some sort of Dijana Hrkalovic, who has not passed the police school or police station. The second point of amending and supplementing this law is that we want to change Article 172 point 2 and we want to delete it. This is where the presummation of innocence collapses, and we want her erased. In addition to every police officer, even some Martinovic can file criminal charges, and that policeman is automatically away from work. We know what our courts are like and whether they can keep that cop for a certain time, a year, two or three away from any task. Maybe he just caught a member of the SNS stealing and then Mr. Martinovic came in and filed a criminal charges against him, and that policeman is automatically suspended. So we want a concrete delete of Article 172 point 2.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21659	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Who's in? I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for -15. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21660	Thank you, President. So, according to Article 88, paragraph 10, which reads - if the president, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, it is me, in this case, who expressed doubts about the existence of a quorum determined by the count of MPs, means I am expressing my suspicion, may request that the quorum be determined by the pronunciation of the MPs, which is decided by the National Assembly without a search. So I'm asking, since I have doubts about the quorum by counting, that by calling out the MPs, as provided for in Article 88, paragraph 10. The Rules of Procedure, the quorum, determines by the pronunciation of the Members of the People. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21661	First it should be determined by counting. (Marco Djurisic: I claim the quorum with which you work. And you didn't ask for it. Thank you. You didn't ask for that. It's a very clear attitude of 10. National MP Alexander Chabrai on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure proposed that the agenda of the session be complemented by the point of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Law on Cultural Goods. Does Alexander Chabrai want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21662	Thank you, but I'd like to ask the chairman, if you could set up some sort of order here because a lot of MPs are walking, talking, chatting, etc. I'd like to talk about something that's never talked about here, which is about cultural goods. I've proposed amendments to the Cultural Goods Act. Dear colleagues, I know that many of you have been sitting here for 20 years and think that this is your house, but fortunately for Serbia, this is not your house, this is the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'd like to ask, indeed, if you could pay attention. I think I speak loud enough. Chairman, I'm sorry if there's some order we can set up. Of course, I would ask you to listen to me, because as I said here, you never talk about the cultural goods of Serbia that are constantly falling apart. In a situation where here, almost every day, we pass a new law, I can tell you that the Law on Cultural Goods, comes from 1994 and that it, almost without any changes, is valid until today. So much is Serbia's concern and this authority about cultural goods, not only these authorities, but, I would say, the very second many years of decline in Serbia's cultural heritage. I really think it is in the general interest, I hope there are no MPs here who do not want to protect Serbia's cultural heritage. For years, however, she has suffered irreparable damage. I'm sure we've all heard of numerous examples of cultural heritage and cultural good Serbia being damaged many times. Many times, irreparable damage has been done. I don't know a single case, and I would really like someone to tell me, has anyone ever claimed responsibility for the destruction of Serbia's cultural heritage? I don't know about such a case, I've paid particular attention here to the changes in criminal provisions, because, you won't believe, I believe, indeed, that many of you here don't even know. Even if a law like this would apply, and never applies, I've already said this, I don't know any case that it's applied, if of course I'm wrong, please correct me. The penalty for cultural goods damage in Serbia is several hundred dinars in some cases. Please look at this law if you've never read it. Please, let's change this. Please start, finally, to take care of Serbia's cultural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21663	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Voting first. Who's in? I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for -13. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21664	So I'm going to repeat my request, Article 88, paragraph 10. - if the president, or the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, raises doubts about the existence of a quorum determined by the count of MPs, may also request that the quorum be determined by the pronunciation of the MPs of which the Assembly decides without a search. So we've been working here for more than two hours based on the quorum determined by manual count. He doesn't say anywhere that I have to do it directly after determining the quorum by hand counting that I'm looking for a roll count. I'm looking at this moment. I'm looking because I'm expressing my doubts about the existence of the last solid quorum by hand count. Your answer can't be that I should have asked for the first hand count. So we have the last established quorum not by electronic system, not by sounding, but by hand counting more than two hours ago. I am now asking you to check that quorum and I have the right to seek, in accordance with Article 88. Rules of Procedure, to request that the quorum check be done by counting MPs per list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21665	I'm sure you don't know how to formulate what you really want. Since you're looking for a violation of Rule 88, I don't think the 88th article is hurt, and you have... (Marco Djurisic: I did not ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Everything's fine. So, do you want to vote on Article 88's injury? Thank you very much. (Marco Djurisic: I did not ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. We can't vote if I didn't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Then you missed a member. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law on changes and additions to the Water Act. You have called for the last attitude, read it. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21666	Dear colleagues, here I will use my Rules of Procedure the right to explain this Law until that possibility disappears from the Rules of Procedure. The Water Act, which was passed in 2016, which adopted this congregation council, is not a good law, is not good because it does not treat the practical situation on the ground, but some of the legal provisions are done in a way that is not appropriate in the field at all. According to the EU's assessment, the deadline for meeting the commitments in the water area is 2041. In order to implement all necessary measures to lead to a satisfactory level, eight billion euros are needed. This is a devastating indicator of our non-domestic water relationship, and we had the opportunity to see it in the floods in 2014 when the director of "Serbia" replied that at that time only God could help us in those floods. With the proposed amendments I have made to this Water Act, I will coordinate the practical situation on the ground with a legislative solution and will be introduced through the necessary changes in this area. Changes in public water supply capacity, which also correspond to the structure of the settlement on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, have been proposed. I have avoided the old practice that governs this law, that local self-government has nothing to do with the supply of water outside the municipal urban centers, which puts the inhabitants of rural settlements in an inappropriate position. On the contrary, it is necessary to strengthen public utility companies, along with certain incentives and with the full collection of water, to improve the situation in the water industry. Dear colleagues, I hope that you will agree that we will be a country signatories of the protocol and other international water agreements, that it is not appropriate for any problems to be helped only by God, but that we need to implement a number of measures in the area of water industry, to start with in the legislation, and for this reason I think that you will have a lot of understanding and support for this law, even if it is in a manual way of voting. Thank you. (Marco Djurisic: Rules of Procedure.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21667	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21668	I'll try again, though I have the impression that you want to make me an ass.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21669	He can't. You can't appeal to the same member.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21670	I'm not looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor, I'm looking for a right that stands in Article 88 of Rule 10...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21671	It's okay. Let's move on. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. Do you want to answer it? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. (Goran Ciric: Rules of Procedure. ) Let me finish the voting process, be kind. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21672	I am advocating Article 27 of Article 2 of the National Assembly to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. counterpart Marko Djurisic, as head of the parliamentary club, demanded that he not advertised the Rules of Procedure, but demanded that the quorum be determined. I join, too, this request, because it doesn't make sense that we're working under suspicion today, and that's not good for you, for this National Assembly, for any of us MPs, to remain suspicious whether we have a quorum or not, whether we're making valid decisions or not. It is not logical to say that the electronic system does not work, which, imagine, is corrupt so that it counts only to 120 MPs. I've never seen such a malfunction of the electronic system before, that it can only count to 120 or 118, and that over 126 can't possibly count. I'm convinced that the electronic system is working and I'm inviting you to establish a quorum or via an electronic system, but since you claim that this system is not working, which I suspect, then by resounding and it's the right of the heads of Parliament clubs. I'm joining this request by Mr. Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21673	So you called on Article 27: “The President of the National Assembly represents the National Assembly, convenes its meetings, presides over them and does other tasks, in accordance with the law and this Rules of Procedure. The President of the National Assembly shall take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure." I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the House and Building Maintenance Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21674	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, the Law on Housing and Building Maintenance, which was adopted at the end of 2016 and adopted by this assembly assembly assembly is in fact a very harmful law per Serbian citizen. There are many injustices that were done to citizens by passing this law, and it is worth correcting. For that reason, I have passed the law on amendments and additions to this law. I'll just list some of the injustices I've tried to correct by this law, and they're in the law of origin. So this is a reduction in the number of recognised household members, tenants of dwellings indefinitely; injustices related to building maintenance; injustices related to protected tenants and injustices related to social housing. This is a famous phantom member 78, the working name of this member is “Savavala” or “Belgrade on Water”. As I am willing to protect their interests on behalf of Serbian citizens, I will pay due attention to every single injustice at each next session. Today, I will address the corrections of this famous phantom member 78, who is in fact legally entitled to conduct personal interest as an interest of public importance. The matrix that makes this happen is next. So it's declared a personal interest in the public interest. The most attractive location in the city, with the most expensive city-building land, is chosen. Lex specialises are being brought in, urban plans are being corrected, residents have moved out of their homes, objects have collapsed, regardless of whether they were legal or not in the process, and without adopting a solution to the destruction, and the owners of the destroyed objects are temporarily resolved the housing issue. I have tried to correct these injustices with this law, which I propose. Dear fellow MPs, we are here from various parts of Serbia. I urge you to consider the following: "Belgrade on Water" is a pilot project that will include all other illegal projects across Serbia. Consider and support this bill, because, gentlemen, today in Belgrade, tomorrow in your city, the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21675	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against none, with abstention, none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Real Estates. Do you want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The MEP Maja Vidinovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law amending the Law on the Budget System. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21676	Thank you, President. We're actually talking about amending the Bill on the Budget System, and I'm actually talking and repeating from session to session, to end the devastating so-called. a temporary ban on employment, which is somewhere a picture of this government, as it is wrong, harmful, discriminatory, as it has to do with people, towards the citizens of Serbia, as it has to do with the institutions and the systems that suffer because of this devastating measure because, I also warned the finance minister when we adopted the budget and the accompanying laws, it cannot give this government fiscal consolidation, which is some kind of syntagma that they memorized, to become an ideology that is more important than life. So this measure is neither appropriate, and all cynicism is in that name, given that it extends from year to year, nor is it actually a ban, because we, and more importantly, Serbian citizens, are witnessing the fact that it does not apply to everyone. If there are bigger problems than having a fatal and wrong measure, it is that it is not applied to all people equally. She's a young doctor, a young scientist, a young artist, a young culture worker, but she doesn't apply to hundreds of thousands of party activists who are also in the budget of hundreds of contracts... provided for work contracts. With this measure, Serbia's citizens are mocked and told to young people in particular – there is no place for you, you are not interested in us, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so you also ignore proposals on youth employment, which my colleague Balsa Bozovic submitted. So by ignoring and not allowing us to talk about this measure, you mock the citizens and tell them – there is no place for you and there is room for party activists. Last time I spoke of a wasteland that leaves this measure in the area of justice. The fact is, we can't hire dactylographs in the D.A.'s office. The consequences of that are paid by citizens, because their reaching justice is slower, because today one prosecutor is doing a job done by the prosecutor for a week. There's not enough dactylograph. Citizens put up with it. I must remind you, for example, that you are all inclined to boast, to be proud of our young fantastic students of Math High School, whom we all accept without any excuse and accept their incredible successes. We have a math high school where there's a ban on employment. Our most qualified students, the most talented students, cannot be the best teachers to get a job at that school because they employ technological surpluses, and the technological surpluses are those professors who are named in their secondary schools as the least professional, so below average teachers will be our most valuable, most gifted students. It's just one example of leaving a wasteland in every institution, every system of something you call a temporary ban on employment. It's all just not that. They suffer the consequences of citizens, suffer the consequences of systems and institutions. I urge that we put this on the agenda and talk about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21677	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, for—11, against—no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21678	I'm advertising Article 103. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, procedurally. We are witnesses that in the last few hours we have been present with certain problems facing MPs when it comes to voting and voting on the proposal from fellow MPs who have these proposals. The problem arose the moment the electronic system, under quotes, failed. He has failed because the ruling coalition cannot provide a sufficient number of MPs to attend. We from the SRS were present all the time, we didn't want to participate in this farce. But I said procedurally, under Article 103, I ask the President of the Assembly of Maja Gojkovic to ensure for tomorrow and for the next days that this electronic system works, because you are the most responsible, and you see how you will do it with the presidents of the parliamentary groups that make up the majority, that this electronic system is finally working, because it is not the essence that we go back 10 years when we did it manually. A lot can be done manually, but don't let the parliament down to a hand vote or something called a super-toping, whether it's good or not, whether it's voted enough for or not. It's not nice for the public. We finally see that the moment is coming when the agenda should be voted on. We warn you that we will no longer watch and keep quiet as two, conditionally speaking, sides, about whether or not this electronic system works.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21679	Thank you. I don't know how to fix the electronic system, but the service will do anything to get us started in the morning with an electronic system. Article 103, and you know for a fact that it doesn't comply with what you've said. I'll do anything. National MP Aleksandar Martinović suggested that: - a joint principled search be carried out on: a draft law on the National Academy of Public Administration, a bill on amendments to the Law on State Servants, a bill on amendments to the Law on Information Security, a proposal on the Law on the Law on the Electronic Document, electronic identification and services of trust in electronic business; and - a joint single search on: a proposal for a decision to amend the Law on the Law on the Law on Information Security, a proposal for the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, from 22 September 2017, a proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the international parliamentary institutions, from 13 September 2017, a proposal for a decision amending the members and alternate members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia's's's's Assembly of Serbia's draft members of Serbia's Assembly of Serbia's Committee, the Republic of Serbia's Assembly of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the drafts of the Republic of the draft of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the drafts of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the drafts of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the members of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Would you like to give us an explanation? As president, I have the right, in accordance with Article 88, to request that the quorum be determined before the vote is passed. Marko Djurisic: What attitude? What? Marko Djurisic: What attitude? You know. Marko Djurisic: I don't know. You say it. Take it easy. We donkeys don't know the attitudes, we know the Rules of Procedure. It's no problem, MP. Of course, when it comes to counting, everyone in the room falls into the quorum. Please, peace. The MPs know that everyone in the room, when it's count, is a quorum. There are no invisible messengers. I don't know about that. Please let the services do their job peacefully. First count of 150, when the MPs decided to step outside. Second count is 138. Thank you. We have a quorum to approach the vote. So, I'm putting in a proposal for Alexander Martinovic to remind you. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I conclude the vote and declare: for - 136, against – no one with abstention – there are 150 MPs in the hall who entered at the start of the vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. I'm putting on a vote on a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – there is no one with abstention – from 147 present in the hall. I find that the National Assembly has, by majority, established the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017, in general. I ask the service to prepare for us the consolidated text of the agenda. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21680	If we're already filling in time, let's fill it in according to article 10, Article 88, again. If the President, or an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, raises doubts as to the existence of a quorum determined by the count of MPs, he may request that the quorum be determined by the pronunciation of the MPs, which is decided by the National Assembly without a search. So you've determined by counting that there are 138 MPs in the O.R. I am expressing my doubts and, in accordance with this position of article 88, I request that the call be made to determine the number of Members present in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21681	The breach of the Rules of Procedure must be done only directly, not every few seconds. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications Dr Rasim Ljajic, as well as Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government Branko Ruzic, Zoran Kasalovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of State and Local Government, Drazen Maravic, Assistant Minister, Jasmina Benmansur, Deputy Minister, Jelena Parezinović, Special Advisor of Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, Ivona Simic, Deputy Prime Minister, Milan Dobrijevic and Natalija Radoja, Senior Advisors at the Ministry, Milan Vojvodić, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law on the National Academy of Public Administration, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Information Security and the Proposal for a Law on Electronic Document, Electronic Identification and Trust in Electronic Business. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? I'm asking the ministers to put in their cards to sign up and decide who's going to sign up first. The word has Minister Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21682	Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, members of the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to present to you a reform of the system of professional training in the public administration at which the establishment of a new institution is at the heart of the National Academy of Public Administration. In front of the public administration in every country today are complex tasks and high expectations of citizens and businesses. Modern challenges that the administration must effectively respond to require attention to investment issues in its expertise, independence and professionalism. The professional training of the public administration involves an organised process of continuous improvement of existing knowledge, skills and skills of public administration employees. The aim is to ensure its competence, legality, regularity and integrity in the conduct of public administration operations. It is important to note that there is a need for greater intervention and further incentives for depoliticalisation and professionalisation of the system of human resources management in public administration. This process includes, in addition to professional training, a number of other elements such as planning, staff selection, monitoring and evaluation, remuneration and promotion. Professional training is certainly one of the essential elements in integrated management and development of human resources in public administration in the overall achievement of reform objectives and principles. It therefore requires system solutions and plane guidance and development in all issues common or distinguished by most public administration entities, so issues relating to organisational forms, which can support and achieve integrity and uniformity in programming and implementation of professional training programmes in public administration. The legal framework which currently regulates organisational forms which exercise competence in implementing professional training in the public administration is diverse, which is primarily due to sometimes not a systemic approach in determining the need for professional training of public administration employees, its planning and implementation. The logical consequence of this normative framework is the fact that employees in the public administration, in areas of professional training that should be common to all categories, do not realise the same scope and content of professional training, which may or may already imply an insufficient, incomplete or inadequate level of knowledge, skills and ability of public administration employees, but also the costs of disproportionate effects to ensure a permanent process of professional training. In view of the above, the need to take measures to ensure the comprehensiveness and sustainability of professional training activities, standardisation of processes and expected results, as well as transparent and professional evaluation, i.e. the evaluation of the results achieved by investing resources in professional training, has been observed. This is achieved, among other things, by establishing a public administration academy as a new administration body in the system of state administration, which would unite all these functions and allow equal opportunities in meeting the need for professional training, both public administration employees and bodies and public administration organisations. In this way, a strong contribution is made to the general objective of reforming the public administration, which is to further improve the work of the public administration, in line with the principles of so-called "public administration". European administrative space, i.e. providing high quality services to citizens and economic operators, as well as the creation of such public administration in the Republic of Serbia, which will significantly contribute to economic stability and to increasing the standard of living of citizens. As one of the priorities in achieving this goal, the 2014 Public Administration Reform Strategy in the Republic of Serbia envisaged the establishment of a central national institution for professional training of public administration employees. In accordance with this strategic definition, the action plan implementing the Public Administration Reform Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period 2015-2017, a measure of the development and coordination of the basic functions of human resources management for the wider system of public administration by the end of 2017 has also been established, a sustainable system of professional training of public administration staff, one of the results of the adoption of laws to regulate the establishment of this organisation, i.e. the law currently in front of MPs. Therefore, more fundamental reasons are that, finally in our system, in the respect of comparative solutions by other EU Member States and beyond, which have achieved a high degree of competence of public administration staff and an effective and efficient public administration, a law that will fully regulate the establishment, status and position of the national public administration academy, as well as other issues relevant to its work and the implementation of professional training in public administration. First, this law establishes a national public administration academy and lays down other issues relevant to its work, i.e. to carry out professional training in public administration. Compared to the subject matter, this law has the features of organisational regulations. The material elements of professional training are subject to the arrangements of the second regulation in the working-law status in certain parts of the public administration, i.e., they are given through amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants to be discussed in parallel during this debate that has been launched today, and we will continue them in the coming days. Then the concept of public administration is defined. In the sense of this law, as a special individuality covering state bodies and independent and independent organisations and bodies whose composition is chosen by the National Assembly, bodies, bodies and services of the AP and units of local self-government, public agencies and organisations subject to the rules on public agencies established by the Republic of Serbia and the AP or units of local self-government and enterprises, institutions, organisations and individuals entrusted with public authority. This provision shall indirectly specify the bodies, bodies of the public authorities to which this law applies. The very concept of professional training is defined as an organised process of teaching employees in public administration on the basis of general and specific programmes, in order to acquire knowledge, values, attitudes, abilities and skills aimed at raising the level of competences necessary to carry out the tasks of the established work and competence, i.e. public administration. The status of a national academy has been regulated in accordance with the Law on State Administration, and has been proposed following a comprehensive and comprehensive analysis of possible organisational forms, with several different aspects equally relevant for the definition, defining the reasons for its future establishment, as authorities in the form of a specific organisation. On the one hand, the strategic direction of reform in this area and the possible organisational forms of future professional training organisations in the public administration, e.g. A strategy for reforming public administration in the Republic of Serbia, a strategy for professional training of civil servants in the Republic of Serbia, but also for comparative solutions on the rights of states that have a long-standing tradition and practice in the area of professional training and application in our system. On the other hand, there have been key criteria for achieving the purpose of establishing a national academy, which are reflected in the need to ensure the systemic coherence of business, programming and implementation of professional training programmes and others related to professional performance in the field of professional training, but also in the overall monitoring of the situation in the field and incentivising development guidance, particularly in matters which, in the field of professional training, distinguish most of the subjects in the public administration. In this segment, particularly defining criteria were the type of business that determines the work of the National Academy, the circle of persons to which professional training is concerned in the National Academy, i.e. the target groups or users and areas of professional training common to all categories of public administration staff, but also the issue of supervision and the way of funding of the National Academy to provide conditions, firstly, for the smooth start of work, then to establish the competence of the National Academy in full scope. Starting first of all from the fact that the work of the National Academy is professional and related executives whose nature requires greater independence from the body within the ministry, it is found to be educated as a special organisation. In addition, in accordance with the provisions of the law governing the position of the state administration, it is also proposed that the national academy has legal personality status, as well as that the supervision of the work of the national academy is carried out by a ministry in which transactions relating to the system of state administration are part of the process. The work of special organisations is therefore, governed by the Law on State Administration, in accordance with the unity of the legal order and from the established relationship between the rules on state administration as general and system law establishing the National Academy, as organisational and specific, did not need to be repeated in this law by the provisions of the Law on State Administration which determine the work of specific organisations and which also relate to the National Academy of Public Administration. So, according to general and system solutions, the state administration is made up of ministries, administration bodies, ministries and special organisations, and they are educated by law as well as by part-time work as a state administration body. Each specific organisation shall be educated for professional and related executive tasks whose nature requires greater independence than those held by the body in its composition. The National Academy is concerned with the need to carry out professional andragogical activities, i.e. adult education and related executive activities, such as the adoption of regulations or the keeping of records. In view of the fact that, in accordance with the general rules, a special organisation may acquire the property of a legal person when it is laid down by law. This law determines that the National Academy has legal personality status, so that it can carry out the necessary professional tasks more effectively. At the same time with this at the National Academy, other provisions of the State Administration Act apply, which is why it is clear how it can and must look like the management and organisation of this special organisation. The Academy does not have numerous and expensive management bodies, but as a special organisation is run by a director who is responsible for his work to the government. The director is appointed by the government for five years, on a proposal by the Prime Minister under the law governing the position of a civil servant. All other employees at the Academy are in the status of civil servants in accordance with the Civil Service Act. A special organisation may have a deputy director who, for his work, corresponds to the director to whom he assists under the powers he determines, replaces it while absent or prevented. The deputy director also sets up the government for five years on a proposal from the director, according to a law governing the position of a civil servant. Like other management bodies, e.g. The ministries and the Academy as a special organisation have one or more assistant directors, who respond to the director for their work, and who manage the circled area of work of a special organisation for which the sector is educated. So it's a typical structure like the ministry. In accordance with the Law on State Administration in which the issue of supervision of the work of the National Academy as a special organisation has been systematically resolved, this law establishing the Academy has been regulated by the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government over its work. On the basis of the Law on State Administration and the content of this supervision and the Ministry is in control of the work of the Academy as a special organisation authorised to request a report and data on the work of a special organisation, establish the state of execution of the affairs and warns the observed irregularities, issue instructions and propose to the Government to take the measures to which it is authorised. In addition, given the nature of the professional tasks to be carried out by the Academy in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Education of Adults, the National Academy is given the status of a publicly recognised organiser of the activities of informal adult education. The National Academy's work is multiple complementar and covers tasks that ensure the achievement of the objectives and functions of professional training of public administration employees. In addition, the National Academy may prepare and implement commercial programmes in accordance with the requirements of legal and natural persons, in an extent which does not endanger the primary work, in accordance with the requirements of legal and physical persons. Cooperation with bodies and organisations in the public administration and other entities is a key principle of operation of the Academy. An analogous obligation for the authorities of the state administration to cooperate with each other on common issues, to provide information and data needed for their work and to establish common working bodies for tasks requiring the participation of several authorities of the state administration, the law provides that the National Academy shall cooperate with the authorities and organisations referred to in Article 2 of this Act, Article 1 of the Organisational Units, bodies or persons responsible for the management of staff or other competent persons designated by those authorities. The co-operation shall cover, in particular, executive and professional tasks which are carried out in the work of the National Academy established by Article 4 of this Act. In the context of continued professional support, the obligations of the National Academy shall also be laid down to provide support to bodies and organisations in the public administration that is overly focused on publishing and making available reports, materials and other relevant information on the programmes of professional training achieved in the public administration. In accordance with the proposed solutions, the National Academy independently implements established programmes, and the law provides for the possibility, under certain conditions, that if there is no appropriate or necessary number of lecturers or that the cost of implementing the programme is reduced, it may, without prejudice to the quality of these programmes, be implemented in cooperation with other publicly recognised organizers of the activities and education of adults or other trainers of training programmes accredited under the law by the National Academy. In this respect, basic elements, scales and means of co-operation with other publicly recognised organizers of adult education and other trainers of training programmes are necessarily defined, in particular as regards the conditions for those persons to meet for the implementation of training programmes, as regards personnel, space, equipment and resources. Taking into account the complexity of the accreditation and quality checks of higher education institutions, which are carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Higher Education Act, which determines the fulfilment of the obligations and standards of the higher education institution for the implementation of student programmes, including with respect to staff, space, equipment and means of work for accredited higher education institutions, an exemption has been proposed from the rules of accreditation of trainers within the meaning of this law, i.e. it is practically recognised that they are already accredited and there is no need to repeat the procedures. The identical principle applies to both institutes and other research organisations. In this regard, other public recognition of adult education organisers, who have acquired that status in accordance with the Law on adult education and sublegal regulations adopted under this law, are also set out, above all, referring to the Regulation on the near conditions of programme, staff, space, equipment and teaching means for obtaining the status of a publicly recognised organizer of adult education activities. For the sake of full and precise arrangements, issues relating to the accreditation of these persons for the implementation of the training programme shall also be determined by the Government's authority to adopt, on a proposal from the National Academy, an act that will bring nearer the criteria and criteria to demonstrate compliance with the conditions laid down by this law, i.e. in order to be transparent, the previously recognised status of an accredited higher education institution or a scientific research organisation or a publicly recognised organiser of adult education activities, as well as the form, manner of enrolment and keeping records on these persons. The law stipulates that the National Academy has special professional bodies and this programme's advice to the permanent programming committee. According to the proposed solutions, the Programme Council is the basic expert body of the National Academy that discusses, determines, gives an opinion, initiatives on the most important professional issues from the Department of the Academy. This body has the purpose of putting the professional, experienced, practical knowledge of the persons who make it into a function of achieving key objectives, activities and tasks of the National Academy in the field of professional training. In this regard, it has been proposed that the Programme Council has a president and 14 members who appoints and resolves the Director of the National Academy. Presidents, 7 members of the Programme Council of State officials who have at least nine years of working experience in the area relevant for the work of the public administration. One member from the members of the Council for the Professional Training of Employees in Local Self-Government Units and six members from the ranks of experts in the field relevant for the work of the Public Administration and representatives of the Association and other business-professional and non-profit organisations whose objectives or tasks are set up in the field of relevant public administration work. Permanent programming committees are educated according to the basic thematic areas of the training programme in the public administration, to guide the development of thematic areas and to propose their promotion, in line with the established needs for professional training, they aim to make the work of the National Academy more efficient. The law further determines how permanent programming committees are educated, as well as their composition and other issues relevant to the work of these bodies. Since the law lays down compensation for the work of the members of the Programme Council and the Permanent Programme Commissions, the Government's authority is to establish criteria, criteria and how compensation for their work is determined on a proposal from the National Academy. In order to ensure the conditions for overall monitoring of the state of play in the field of professional training, it is prescribed that the National Academy shall keep a central record of the training programme in the public administration. In order to ensure one of the conditions for the uninterrupted exercise of trusted powers, the law regulates funding for the National Academy and other issues relating to services provided by the National Academy for professional training and the provision of jobs for the needs of users. In view of the status of the National Academy in the System, its workaround, but also the type of public administration bodies and organisations concerned by the implementation of professional training, as set out in this Law, it is determined that funds for the financing of the jobs of the National Academy shall be provided for the general costs of work in the Republic of Serbia's budget, and for training programmes and other professional tasks, in relation to training programmes carried out in the public administration in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the budget of the Autonomous Province, the budget of the unit of local self-government and the financial plan of the bodies and organisations referred to in Article 2(1) of this Law. Since Article 4(2) of the Law provides that the National Academy may, in accordance with the requirements of legal and natural persons, prepare and implement commercial programmes if the performance of those tasks endangers the performance of the tasks referred to in Article 1(1) of the same Article. This article regulates tariffs for professional training and other professional activities for the purposes of the users referred to in Article 1 of this Act, other than the beneficiaries of the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as well as for the needs of users outside the public administration, to be determined by the Government, but on a proposal from the National Academy. What is also important, the law stipulates that the revenues achieved by providing these services, according to the Budgetary System Act, are the revenues of the Republic of Serbia's budget. The law also regulates the regime regarding the start of the work of the National Academy and the continuation of the work of the Government, in which the operations of staff management according to the workaround are established by this and the special law, as well as the arrangements for the exercise of competence in the field of professional training until the adoption of acts in the internal organisation of the National Academy, in order to ensure continuity in meeting the needs of civil servants and areas of professional training. As I pointed out at the outset, it was necessary to draw up a parallel with the preparation of an organisational law establishing the National Academy, to prepare amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants, which contained provisions on their professional training. First of all, the provisions of the Law on civil servants, which regulates the Institute of takeover as a way to fill jobs in public authorities, are being complemented. The main objective of the proposed member is the need to comply with the Law on Employees in Autonomous Provinces, units of local self-government, which began to apply on the first of December 2016, which provides for the possibility of taking over from the state authority an employee who is employed indefinitely. Since the applicable provisions of the Civil Service Act are laid down as a basis for the takeover of a civil servant from another state authority, the proposed addition of the provisions shall regulate the takeover of staff officers indefinitely in the body of the Autonomous Region, the unit of local self-government, as well as the authority of the city municipality, the service and organisation established by the competent authority of the Autonomous Region, the unit of local self-government and the city municipality, according to specific law, into a state body, which contributes to the better compliance of the law governing the official system at all levels of public administration. Then, in relation to the current solution, these changes, on a new basis, regulate all issues necessary for the achievement of the professional training function. The aim of the proposed solutions is primarily to ensure the integrity, comprehensiveness and sustainability of knowledge and the skills of administrative capacity to achieve the objectives and principles of reform both state and public administration in general. The law first lays down that professional training is based on training programmes consisting of a general training programme, training programme for managers and specific training programmes in line with specific needs from the workaround and competences of the public authorities, which determine the forms and contents of professional training and the level of means for professional training and, as one of the newspapers, determines the tasks of the National Public Administration Academy in the system of professional training of civil servants. Taking into account that the professional training of civil servants who are being prepared or located in management posts is as important as the professional training of other categories of civil servants for the exercise of the authority of state authorities and the quality of the establishment or implementation of public policies, the law also provides for the introduction of training programmes for managers. The regulation of a specific training programme further enables the professional training of civil servants, in line with specific needs from the work of the public authorities and the competence of the public authorities, i.e. the achievement of the needs of individual jobs, types of jobs or specific user groups, with a special emphasis on the professional training of members of the negotiating team and the negotiating group and other relevant groups in the process of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the EU, i.e. the need stemming from that process. The law regulates that a general training programme and a training programme of executives is adopted by the Government on a proposal from the National Academy, in the opinion of the High Official Council, while special training programmes are brought by state authorities, except for a specific programme relating to the negotiating team and the negotiating groups and other relevant groups in the process of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia, which brings the authority responsible for the coordination tasks related to the EU accession and accession process. Only the implementation of the general programme in the section is the National Academy, and special training programmes are carried out by the authorities that bring them in, with the required possibility that their implementation can also be entrusted to the National Academy. Then, for the first time, criteria, criteria and ways of determining the need for professional training are being regulated, by setting out the basic criteria for determining the need for professional training, in the light of the overall legal system and the possibilities resulting from it. As I have already said, the law stipulates that the National Academy is developing a unique methodology and standard instruments that allow continuous and flexible monitoring and adaptation of training programmes in accordance with the needs of the national authorities, whereby the National Academy only implements the process of determining the needs for programmes it implements, which are mentioned in the general programmes, while specific training programmes are being carried out by the state authorities that bring them in with the professional support of the National Academy. The law also determines who can be a lecturer or another realizer and implementer of training programmes and the conditions for selecting the credentials of lecturers and other realisers and trainers. In order to provide conditions for overall monitoring of the state of play in the field of professional training, it is prescribed that the National Academy shall keep records of training programmes in the national authorities and, in addition to the mandatory data provided by the state authorities for enrolment in this record, the obligation to supply data and materials prepared for the purposes or to be the product of the training programme shall be prescribed. Also, compatible solutions to mentors in the implementation of professional training programmes are regulated by law in relation to mentoring in the training programme of trainees for the work of the state authority. In this respect, it shall be arranged who may be a mentor in the training programmes of trainees in the national authority and the manner in which the mentorship is carried out. In addition, in order to ensure equal quality training of trainees in all bodies, it is prescribed that the National Academy prepares and implements a special mentor training programme and provides guidance for their work. The establishment of a system for the management of personal development and the career of civil servants is one of the key functions in human resource management. Although recognised in the public administration reform strategy in the Republic of Serbia, this function has so far not been properly regulated in our regulatory framework, which is governed by the state-run service system. Given that the action plan for its implementation sets out the human resources management policy framework and the need to improve the instruments for the strategic management of human resources in the state administration, this law proposes that the staff management service, which already has built capacity with regard to career management activities, the analysis of individual development potentials, the development of individual development plans and the career counselling of civil servants, carry out tasks related to the analysis of individual potentials for the development and management of the career of civil servants. Further arrangements shall also be made for the collection and processing of data containing the central personnel records. In view of the responsibilities of staff management services, human resources management in the state administration system, it is necessary to enable this service, in addition to data collection, to carry out operations under its jurisdiction, to perform and process data recorded in that register. Finally, the law contains explicit powers for the adoption of a sublegal regulation necessary for its enforcement, detailed and detailed issues to be covered by sublegal regulations and clearly specified limits of the powers of the authority to adopt them. Cases of the validity of sub-legislative acts shall also be regulated in order to ensure continuity in the achievement of the professional training function in state authorities and the smooth implementation of the professional training programme in the period until the conditions for full transition to the regime established by law are met, the questions of the initiation of the accreditation process and the status of former lecturers and other trainers and the implementationer of the training programme until the completion of the accreditation procedure are settled, in accordance with this and the special law. Dear People's MPs, let me finally point to a few of the elements that we are proposing for the reforms that we will be dealing with here the next day. I believe that this is primarily in the public interest and communication with the public, as well as, of course, due to the continued support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this very important business that the Government is dealing with, and particularly given that this topic is presented in the public in certain means of public information. Also, given that I have had the opportunity to get acquainted with your thoughts on reforming the system of professional training of public officials through an insight, not all of them, but in the large number of amendments you have proposed, I would point to several of the following elements and I will try to provide answers to those reserves that you will probably, I am confident, present during tomorrow, perhaps on Thursday. Therefore, the National Academy of Public Administration is established to train officials in public administration, not officials. Functions are not mentioned in the Law on the National Academy, and in the Law on Civil Servants they can also not be mentioned, because the law regulates the position of, of course, logically, civil servants. It is therefore the mistranslated content of the law in certain means of public information. Also, the Academy established by these laws is not a higher education institution, nor is a reform introduced by some high-school training programmes. Professional training programmes are being introduced, with the profession that this is specifically about, the profession of performing the tasks of the state administration. Nothing less and nothing more. As a result, the proposed solutions related to the contractors of the professional training programme, their content, are adapted to professional, professional, not scientific or academic training. As the Academy is not a higher education institution, it is not and cannot be an institution, but an authority of the administration established by law and the law determines the part-time work. All this is clear about the management of the authorities and supervision of the work of the Academy, which is already governed by the System Law on State Administration, and the Law on State Employees is applied to the employees of the Academy. Therefore, there are no expensive management bodies, because it is not an establishment, but a state administration body in the form of a special organisation established to carry out professional training tasks. There are misunderstandings, and it's very interesting, perhaps justifiable, I'd say it's not, about the language of the law. The law is written in accordance with the rules of modern legal technique and normation, as well as with the rules of contemporary Andragogical profession and practice. For example, we introduced into the law a variety of possible forms of professional training, except for the lecture of the ex department, such as workshops, round tables, and the use of mentors and chariots. The stage gave significant attention, arguing that the term needed to be replaced with another Serbian word. First, the term is widely accepted, and even in large languages, it is not translated, including Russian. It is used everywhere in the region in its original form. It is the same, for example, with the term training or coaching, which at one point entered our language, and today they are widely accepted. Secondly, couching is used as a term for example. a study programme at the Department of Pedagogy and Andragogy of the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade. Also, couching is a special subject in academic studies of psychology of the University, for example. Syngidum in Belgrade, as well as master studies at the same university. Thirdly, literature uses the term couching for the process with which people acquire knowledge using different tools and techniques to develop and become more efficient. In professional papers published in Serbian and domestic works, no one deals with the issue of translation of these terms. So far, in accordance with the practice in the world, the staff management service within the professional training program has been used as an instrument for personal work and development, which is certainly not the same as the instruction. The academy and the system of professional training are by no means, nor will it be a platform for party employment, but will just defend it by party employment. So something that's the opposite, and the criticisms that we expect will be brought out here in this home, but they're already out in public. The main objective of professional training of public officials is and must always be to improve all competences necessary for officials to apply the law properly in the same way and in the same situations, thus guaranteeing the equality of citizens before the law. After that, the aim is certainly to ensure efficiency and kindness in the work of providing public services to citizens. Dear People's Messengers, I thank you for your attention. This may have lasted a little longer, but I think that this law is of great importance and I would remind all those who, of course, can criticise, and it is legitimate, and we accept all constructive criticism, if there are any, and I hope that it will, that this job has been done for over 15 years, and that the playloads of people who, above all from a professional point of view of this topic, have been doing a parallel analysis with many institutions that exist around the world, not to mention France now, including Russia and all EU countries, have been very dedicated and fundamentally working on finding a legal solution. This strategy, set three years ago, has incorporated the need for a law like this to be passed. I think we're doing one important thing right now, primarily because of citizens and citizens of Serbia. This topic may not be so interesting from a political point of view that it is exploited for some achievements or for the achievement of daily political points. That is why I am also pleased that we are dealing with this topic and that we will be dealing with the following days, to see the degree and level of awareness of all of us and all of you sitting in the highest legislative home about the need to implement this professional training in a way that will be in the function of both citizens and citizens and state and economy and the whole system in which we want to introduce order and that is the role of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This law and the establishment of a national public administration academy is just one piece of mosaic that should represent the introduction of order into the system. I thank you once again for your attention, and I hope that even during tomorrow we will work even more closely on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21683	Thank you, Minister Rose. The word now has the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications Dr Rasim Ljajic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21684	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respecting the fact that you have been in the Assembly all day, I will try to be brief, Mr Krasic warned me, and I respect his parliamentary experience. I will try to talk about the proposal for a law on electronic document, electronic identification and trust services in electronic business as much as possible. First of all, I want to convince a rather complicated law whose matter is also quite abstract. So I apologize to those who are in this matter, and I will try to simplify the proposal for this law and for certain provisions, primarily for the citizens of Serbia and those who do not deal with this business. This law we call the Law on Electronic Business, although this name does not correspond essentially to the provisions of this law, and it should essentially enable it to create preconditions to move from classical to electronic business, i.e. to remove any obstacles to faster, more efficient and cheaper business, to make significant savings, that this is useful for economic operators, for citizens, for public administration. Also, the law should allow for a further process of modernising our public administration, and what is most important for citizens, to provide, provide, facilitate, secure, access to public service services and especially to a greater number of these services. We did not go from zero to zero, as you know, there were laws on electronic signature and electronic document, two laws which, unfortunately, for various reasons, could not be fully available and implemented. They only partially defined and solved some problems, created a basis for electronic signature and electronic document, but did not go beyond that. On the contrary, both of the laws were dysfunctional in both segments, so we had the fact that only 360,000 citizens used electronic signature services, i.e. had an electronic signature certificate, thus only 5% of the population. When you look at what's causing such a small number, you'll actually see that it's a very simple fact that we had a very complicated procedure to activate that electronic signature. Namely, someone who wants to sign an electronic one document had to have a special card, had to have special software for their computer or laptop, had a special reader of that card and plus the installation of that software lasted hours and days, even the IT experts told me that after two days they had installed that software, which was again very often broken down, so it's no wonder that only 360,000 people used electronic signature services. We are now introducing an almost revolutionary new trust service, which is a qualified electronic signature. What does that mean? This means that users will be able to use their mobile phone to identify themselves practically through transactions, i.e. electronic communications, and thus to sign a particular document electronically. What does it look like in practice? So, you have a username and a password, or a user name and a password, you type into your mobile phone, you'll get a pin-code text that you need to type in. By typing that pin-code, you practically activate the option of qualified electronic signature. So every carrier, every mobile phone user will be able to use a qualified electronic signature. This is important because we're counting on this not only to make it easier, it's going to fail to use a qualified electronic signature. To simplify to the end, a qualified electronic signature is the exact equivalent of a handwritten signature in this real world. As far as the electronic document is concerned, there has also been one significant progress made because the electronic document recognises the fullness and the evidence force by this law and the provisions of the law, regardless of what is in the electronic document and is recognised as being in paper form. Therefore, paper and electronic documents are equated. Not only that, it goes one step further, it enables the conversion of an electronic document into paper, and vice versa, which means that an electronic document or paper document can be converted, that it is digitised, that it is scanned and that it has the same evidence power as the original document. It is also intended that, when you have an electronic document in the original form, then print it, after printing that document and after certified by stamp or signature, it also has the same evidence power as the original document. This digitisation, especially a paper document, will not only reduce the use of documents in paper form, but also make it much easier for all those, above all, business people in search, use and release of different documents. We now have a new service, alongside electronic signatures and electronic documents, which were provided for in previous laws. A brand-new service, which refers to the electronic seal. To simplify, the electronic stamp is equivalent to an electronic signature for a legal person, it may be complicated, if the electronic signature is a replacement for a signature, then the electronic seal is a replacement for a legal person's seal and the signature of an authorised person together. In other words, if you had to print and sign one document, now you do not need one another, you need to seal that electronic document and it has full legal and evidence power. Why is this important? This will solve many of the problems we've had so far in practice. Namely, the owners of the company often gave their electronic certificate, i.e. signature, to accountants or assistants at the company to sign different documents on their behalf. This thing is not only against the law, but it has opened a space for numerous abuses, and now the company can, i.e. the owner of the company, take out an electronic seal, by means of an internal act of authority to the accountant that the seal can be used for business in the company itself. Another important thing. This is important for connecting different information systems and institutions that can in this way exchange e-printed documents, especially important for those institutions that automatically issue a large number of documents in real time, e.g. as a PIO fund. Now, when you have the opportunity to create an electronic document, sign it and print it, it's worth nothing to you if there's no possibility of delivering that document. This is a very important thing. Someone will say – well, so far we have had the possibility of e-mailing. Yeah, that's true, but this is about sending a far higher degree of reliability, especially when we're talking about the identity of the users and when we're talking about the exact time of that delivery. Electronic delivery allows you to see the exact time and send the document and the exact time to receive the document. This is particularly important because of certain court, administrative proceedings, when the document, in fact, the time of delivery of the document is important, because of this and the time is running, when you can take, or the user, the party to take the appropriate legal action, or to appeal to an administrative act. The service of qualified electronic delivery, again compared to real time, is a replacement, in a way, for the service of recommended shipments, when you send classic mail. Therefore, you are assured that this mail will come to the address, or shipment to which you have sent it. The next service to be defined by this law is the electronic storage of these documents. A particularly important thing because of the economy and the great savings that the economy can achieve in this way. We've had a situation so far that many warehouses or warehouses are used to store paper documentation. Hundreds of thousands of these documents, millions of euros, were spent on keeping the documentation. On average, one bank and a press release of about 10 million documents and scans about seven million different documents. Costs, we've been checking the cost of keeping one box of documents and these costs are 50 cents per box. So it's about millions of euros that have been paid so far and that different companies, not just banks, have paid different institutions to keep that documentation. We now predict the formation of so-called. the electronic storage warehouse of those documents, by absolutely ensuring the safety of the keeping of these documents, which provides the integrity of these documents in order to avoid any possibility of changing or modifying the contents of what is stored. Of course these documents can be stored in electronics. These documents that are kept can be originally both in paper form and in electronic form, with it being in paper form must be digitised first, or scanned. The paper can be destroyed and then stored in electronic form. Unfortunately, that's where we have to be completely open. There will be a major obstacle here to fully applying this law in this part because of other regulations that provide for the obligation to keep documents in paper form, i.e. paper form. First of all, the Law on Archival Construction and there are a whole series of other regulations that further predict that obligation. We therefore have a process of cleaning up these acts, changing these acts so that the law can be implemented in full capacity. However, and now we will be able to destroy some paper documents, first of all when it comes to invoices, when it comes to payment orders, hundreds of thousands of such documents are printed daily and they will be able to be destroyed even after digitization and scans are stored in electronic form. Now the question is opening, and probably rightly, how safe is all this, how safe is it, and how do we determine the identity of the users of these electronic services? That may be the key question with this law. That's why we have different schemes and identification procedures that have different levels of reliability. Just depending on the degree of risk of abuse and possible damage that can be done to these abuses, we have three levels of identification. So, basic, middle and tall. The basic level reduces the risk of abuse. The middle level significantly reduces the risk of abuse, while the high level completely prevents any abuse. Now let me get this straight, I see it's completely unclear. So, if you want to take the credentials out of the birth certificate or to do a check-in check on the polling list, that's enough for you to have a username and a password, so the user name and pasword and that's that basic level or as one-factory authentication is said. So one factor is enough to make that request you have come true. If you want to take the credentials out of the criminal record, whether you're being punished or convicted, that's not enough username and password, you need another factor. This factor can be a fingerprint on your device, so the phone, it can also be a text message, or a password that you get by text, which you type, which is basically your identification. That's the middle level. You end up with that high level, and it's a qualified electronic signature that's the safest, where there's no abuse. So if you apply for a driver's license you have to have a qualified electronic signature. If you apply for a change of residence, you have to have a qualified electronic signature, if you want to work electronically, of course. If you want an application or a change of residence, then you also need to have a qualified electronic signature. So, high level of reliability. All these schemes will be on the Ministry's website, each body will define what level it needs to achieve an appropriate service. When we've solved it and the question is, who guarantees all this, who's the one who's doing this? It's not a pigeon writer who carries one now document from point A to point B. So it's practically those providers of these services. What's in the real world? In the real world, it's, like, a mailman. When you give the shipment, you throw it in the mailbox or the recommended shipment you go to the post office and the post office guarantees that this shipment from point A will go to point B. What is this mail here? It is this service provider or service providers, which are business entities that will have to register according to a special procedure, a very strict procedure, to meet specific conditions, therefore, to have employees who are professional, with experience, who have been trained in information security and data protection individuals, who have insurance against damages, who have adequate equipment that is protected from unauthorised use, who have systems that securely store your data and every two years will be checked by those service providers for whether they meet all the standards set and whether they comply with all the provisions of this law. So I now believe that you have some image of the importance of this law and this is just the first step we are now taking with the law. The hard work, the hard work will be its implementation. The fact that we have to bring in 17 sublegal acts tells us how complicated and sensitive this is. So within a year we have to bring in 17 different acts. I remind you that neither the EU has brought forward four yet important sublaws, so that the provisions of the EU directive can be implemented. Moreover, very often technologies and innovations go far ahead of legislative regulations, and we will have to make these compromises, and we will have to make some kind of an anticipation and future technological developments, because there was a suggestion that the content of these sublegal acts should be incorporated into the text of the law, but simply technology progresses so quickly that we didn't want to nail ourselves and to define it in law, we've already left room for it to be subject to sublegal acts so that we can change them more easily. It is also important to strengthen our capacity in the Ministry's inspection because the inspection is a great burden of control and supervision of this law. We need to work more on digital, increasing digital literacy in Serbia. It's a huge mistrust of our citizens in this kind of business. We also need to carry out a campaign to raise awareness of the importance of electronic business, electronic signature and all the services I've been talking about. I want to thank everyone who participated in this bill. So, the public debate was very fruitful, everyone participated, all of the organisations of foreign investors' councils, different chambers and our and foreign, and the academic community, the expert public. I want to thank the MPs who have submitted very useful amendments. Most of these amendments are accepted, and we will accept, actually, because we want to really fix and improve the text of the law as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-03-0.u21685	Thank you, Minister Ljajic. With the presentations of the proposing representatives, or ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we are finishing work for today, and I would like to inform you that we will continue work tomorrow, so on October 04, 2017, starting at 10 o'clock. Thank you for your cooperation.
