ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-30-0.u23678	Dear People's MPs, honourable members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, your Excellency, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 13th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. As you know, I called this special session to address the National Assembly of Njegov's Excellency, Mr. Dimitar Glavchev, president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is my honor to welcome Mr. Dimitri Glavchev's Excellency, on behalf of the National Assembly and on behalf of myself. In addition, I welcome the other respected members of the National Assembly delegation of the Republic of Bulgaria, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the diplomatic crust in the Republic of Serbia and distinguished guests attending today's session. Now I ask His Excellency, Mr. Dimitri Glavchev, to address us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-30-0.u23679	Good afternoon. Dear Madam President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable Members of the People, Your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my address with a proverb containing the wisdom of the friendly Serbian people. I believe there must be no fence between Bulgaria and Serbia. I believe Bulgaria and Serbia should be great neighbours. I believe that Bulgaria and Serbia have a common future in a united Europe. With excitement, I stand for the highest speaker of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to express my great gratitude to Madam President Maja Gojkovic and all the MPs of the high honour shown to be the first Bulgarian statesman to address the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I thank you for this opportunity. I accept it as a clear sign of the importance of relations between the two countries, between the two friendly peoples, between the MPs of the two parliaments and as an effort to build good neighbourly and friendly relations. At today's solemn moment, I would like to remind you that Bulgarians and Serbs are very close. This closeness is based not only on our geographical neighborhood, not only on centuries-long intertwined history, but also on the likeness of language, culture, mutual faith and tradition. Especially are examples of mutual support in the 19th century. In 1862, the First Bulgarian Legion was founded in Belgrade, with Georgi Rakovski headed. More than 600 Bulgarian revolutionaries and young Bulgarian patriots from still enslaved Bulgaria have joined the legion. Among them is the apostle of the freedom of Bulgaria Vasil Levski. Five years later, again in Belgrade, the Second Bulgarian Legion was founded. Today, in one of Belgrade's most beautiful parks, Tashmajdan, a modest monument was erected, giving mail to the heroes Vasil Levski and Georgi Rakovski. Bulgarian-Serbian friendship is indicative that even in the Balkans, where peoples with express identity are gathered, establishing a relationship of trust, co-operation and friendship is possible when there is a necessary political will. What is important to us and our citizens today is that we are aware of the need for a new progress of mutual relations, and our common goal must be to preserve stability in the region and the well-being of our two peoples. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Bulgarian people warmly welcome the Serbian people for choosing a European development direction in the 21st century. We welcome Serbian citizens for re-election and re-election by politicians leading them towards the European Union in each next election. First of all, to assure you that the European perspective of the Western Balkans will be among the top priorities of the upcoming Bulgarian presidency of the EU Council. We support making tangible progress on your European path. We believe that Serbia is showing a strong desire to become part of the European family. As president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, I would like to make a loud statement from this speaker – the Republic of Bulgaria supports the European integration of the Republic of Serbia into the EU. We are convinced that pro-European politicians in Serbia, with the support and understanding of Serbian citizens, will vigorously complete all necessary reforms and that the country will fully meet requirements for full membership. Bulgaria expects Serbia in our united European family, in a community of true democracy, guaranteed rights and freedoms of every citizen, in our family that respects differences and unity, and prejudices and hate speech remain in the past. From 1 January 2018, Bulgaria will take over the rotating presidency of the EU Council for the first time. We have been preparing for this binding responsibility for a long time. With great pleasure, I would like to introduce you to the fact that Bulgaria has made a lot of vigorous efforts during this preparation, and we have managed to convince our partners that the topic of EU enlargement to Serbia and other Western Balkan countries is again included in the Union agenda. During our chairmanship, we will continue to work on it. In this way, your reformist efforts will receive new energy and motivation, and the Serbian state will have a clearer perspective on membership. A unique opportunity is being opened for Serbia to speed up the integration process towards the EU in the coming months and years. After the Bulgarian presidency, Austria takes over, and then Romania. All three countries have expressed clear support for your country's European path. I am convinced that Serbian politicians and citizens will work hard to allow Serbia to join our common European family. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we welcome Serbia's policy in the past few years regarding national minorities in the country. We believe that any problem can only be solved through dialogue. I welcome you legislators in the National Assembly. We highly appreciate the fact that acts in the area of the rights of national minorities in Serbia have been adopted in recent years in line with the highest European standards. We are pleased with the fact, and we hope that far in history there is a time when, by their actions or by not doing so, the totalitarian regimes showed a lack of respect for Bulgaria's national minority in Serbia. Today, Bulgaria and Serbia are showing a common interest in more effective implementation of the Bulgarian national minority's prescribed rights and together in bilateral relations to create a favourable political framework for this. Bulgaria and Serbia are together concerned about the economic situation of border municipalities and together we are looking for favourable solutions. A joint forum of business people from the two countries will be held in Nis in a month. With the participation of the top two governments, concrete investment projects will be considered, leading to an economic recovery of the area along the border with Bulgaria. We must work together to develop Bosilegrad, a municipality with a prevailing Bulgarian population. For the last 15 years, the population of the municipality has been reduced by more than 30%. It's a critical unemployment situation. With the two countries working together, we need to fix this situation. I want to address Bulgarians in the Republic of Serbia from this pay phone. Be active citizens of neighbouring and friendly Serbia, remember your generation and language. Dear Madam President, honourable MPs, your Excellency, support for Bulgaria's membership of Serbia and other Western Balkan states is our permanent priority. We'll work on it, not just during our presidency. I am convinced that you too will be active and will work on meeting the necessary criteria. This is important for the prosperity of society and citizens, and I am sure they will appreciate it. The Bulgarian Presidency's password for the European Union Council is a password written above the entrance to the Bulgarian parliament building. Since 1 January 2018 it will be the password of the united Europe and here from the speaker of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia I hope it will become our common password. Unity makes for strength. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-30-0.u23680	I thank the president of the National Assembly for his address and conclude the 13th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly.
