ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23681	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 109 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Slavisa Ristić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23682	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I refer a parliamentary question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic, and I ask for some clarifications on her claim that the judges and prosecutors at KIM did not take an oath, she said, in front of Hashim Thaci, but that they signed a special status neutral statement. That is, in some ways, she argued here in response to parliamentary questions on Thursday, and then in the media we had the opportunity to read her tweet, which she literally said -- "Here's the real information, says Ana Brnabic, our judges did not take any oath, but they gave a particularly neutral statement. The truth is important," said Ana Brnabic." I absolutely agree that the truth is important, especially when it comes to this, that the public knows what they really are and what kind of statement our judges and prosecutors signed on KIM space during their anti-constitutional, integration into so-called. Kosovo's legal system. That is why I ask that Ana Brnabic deliver not only to me as an MP, but also to the pralament here, that we all have insight into the text and allegedly a status neutral statement. I will say, Mr. Chairman, that the public and MPs know that I've had the chance to speak to a group of judges from KIM, who signed this kind of oath, of course, their identity I don't want to present here, because I know I'm going to make a problem for them, but people have confirmed that they signed, I'm going to read what, the text of the statement. We had the opportunity to hear similar texts here, and it is spinning in the media, but I will read one more time, so where our judges and prosecutors have confirmed what they have signed: "I solemnly swear that during my duties as Judge of the Republic of Kosovo I will remain faithful to the constitution of the Republic of Kosovo and that I will perform the function, honestly, responsibly and impartially, respecting the rules of professional ethics." So, this is signed by our judges, this is the text of a statement, and Mrs. Ana Brnabic has to answer what's really the reason, why she has deceived the public, is it just her idea or has someone talked her into simply telling the truth in public? Of course, I expect them to give up their court and lawyers on this. We hear in the media that today 40 law professors will be talking on the round table on the subject of KIM, and I expect them to give their own judgment on whether this is a status neutral statement or not. Another question I would also like to refer to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic, why has the government adopted a completely unconstitutional regulation on October 19th of this month, and concerns the regulation on the exercise of special rights of judicial officials and employees in judicial authorities and the Administration for the enforcement of criminal sanctions on AP KIM territory? This regulation was adopted on 19 October, so only four, five days before our judges and prosecutors signed this unconstitutional oath. In fact, this is about the following, this was just a reward for the anti-constitutional act that judges had to make, because they had practically gained the right to so-called. the unconstitutional, special pension they receive on the day of termination of work in our judicial bodies, and this Regulation guarantees that, practically, they receive this special pension of 90% of the average salary they received in 2017. It's totally unconstitutional. To make it, to put it that way, even more interesting and even funnier, they made discrimination between different categories of our employees in our institutions, in one way they acted and it was a completely different regulation when it was so-called. the integration of members of the MUP in relation to judges. The members of the MUP won't be able to receive a special pension, so-called pension. By the end of their lives, they will already have to, after gaining the right to retirement, so their right to a special pension ends and they will begin to receive an age pension that is certainly far less than this special pension. So I'm asking the question who gave her the right to make such anti-constitutional regulations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23683	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23684	Thank you, Chairman. My first question is to the Foreign Minister, Mr. Ivica Dacic, and it is about his behaviour or, perhaps, more appropriate to say, his performance, when visiting the Turkish president and about his statements later in the media that could have been heard about it, and that is his comment - what I should have done, whether I should have killed him as Murat etc. I wanted to ask Mr. Ivica Dacic -- did he perhaps hear, did he think, does he know that there is something between singing, dancing and killing, and that he might know that something that exists between this exaggeration and the uplifting and aggression is called diplomacy, that it's called seriousness, that it's called dignity, that it's called respect and high guests, and above all, respect for the citizens of Serbia? Put your hands on your heart, I think this question could be addressed to many of our other diplomats, politicians, officials, especially those who approve of such behavior, I would say, perhaps, inciting. Is there any way we can hold onto this one between behaviors, which would represent, I hope, diplomacy and seriousness and responsibility that this country lacks so much? The second question is addressed to the minister of culture and to the minister of justice. It's about what's going on at the Ethnographic Museum. In addition to all the problems we have with our museums and here we have one case that has already reached the justice domain. I don't think the public, first of all, is sufficiently informed about it, and I'd like them to tell me exactly what's going on with the abuses and the heavy ones, I think, how much have I been able to read in the media the crimes that have happened here lately? So, what exactly happened here? I don't think the public is informed enough. There's a lot more talk about other less important events. This is about protecting the cultural heritage of the Republic of Serbia, which is so neglected. That's what I keep talking about, unfortunately, that's not enough to talk about, I'm trying to make up for it in some way. And I'd also like to ask, was it inevitable that this would happen at all, because I think it's known that there have already been various problems? This is a year, two or more backwards, right in that Ethnographic Museum, that there have been some abuses and some of the crimes involved in the maintenance of the wedding at the museum, restoration of some of the "Manak's House" facilities, etc. So let's find out what's going on right now and whether it was necessary for this to happen at all, since I think it might have been a hunch that something like this was happening, and I think it should have happened sooner. But when that hasn't happened, what's going to happen now, and is this question going to be resolved and that this museum will finally be protected, one of the few that works in this country? Another question I asked was the prime minister, Mrs. Ani Brnabic. I want to ask - why did she refuse a meeting with the media freedom group? I'd expect, if anything from Mrs. Brnabic, enough width to accept a conversation like this. As far as I know, she said herself that the situation in the media is not good. I don't think it's a problem to accept an invitation to talk and that the only way to move something, to solve something, is to just talk. Why would she not want to talk, first of all, to them, and why is it necessary to refuse an invitation to talk? I think at least the conversation can always be accepted and thus try to find some solution to a situation that she herself said was not good at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23685	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nada Lazic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23686	I thank the chairman. I'd like to ask the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, and it's about ice-collars. Let me remind you, last winter, because of extremely low temperatures and large amounts of ice, especially on the water rivers, on the Danube, Savi and Tisa, we had a problem with this ice, and then ice-breaking ice-crackers were rented from Hungary. About 80 million dinars have been paid for the rent of these ice-crackers, as otherwise stated in the report on the work of the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and water industry for the first two quarters, which was adopted by the Committee on Agriculture, and these are the funds mostly paid from the current budget reserve and part of the budget fund for water. The damages of other species, such as the destruction of the port in Apatin or in some other places on these rivers, and also the damage caused by the disabled exports of wheat, corn and soy barges, are not shown anywhere. At that time, I'll remind you, the Ministry has been announced that the ice-crackers will be acquired for this next season. At that time, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I asked a representative of the Ministry and asked whether and when the ice-breakings would be obtained? Unfortunately, the minister, when the committees adopting the reports are held, does not attend these committees, but I have received an answer from the representatives, that I will receive a written explanation. I didn't get that until today. That's why I'm asking this one on the question. First, what is the total damage and costs caused by the appearance of ice on the rivers of the previous winter? Secondly, is there a tender in place and will there be a tender for the purchase of ice-colds? I think I'm asking questions on time and we can't let extreme weather suddenly surprise us, because I'm afraid somewhere in December we're going to consider the damage to the drought. I don't think we should allow ourselves such a luxury to rely on either God or statistics that this winter won't be so cold. Only in comparison to say that Hungary has 22 ice-crackers, 13 on Tisa, eight on the Danube, and one on Balaton, who are ready for winter, and they certainly won't be surprised by these weather-time opportunities. As a comparison, I would like to point out that, let's say, these funds that were given to rent can be directed into projects for the development of local self-government. It was these days that we had the opportunity to see that in Vojvodina, or in the media of Vojvodina, 13.5 million dinars were directed at local self-government, or in seven undeveloped municipalities. These are really funny means compared to the ones we pay for damages from natural disasters and so on for the appearance of ice. I'd like to refer the second question to the Department of Traffic. I am asking again the question – when will the construction of the Fruskogore corridor begin, first of all, the tunnel through the Fruska Mountain? In November of last year, the Regional Secretary for Construction and Environmental Protection announced that a planned documentation would be carried out in the course of 2017 and that land expropriation would be expropriated. Now I ask how far it has come with these planned, announced jobs, and will the work on building this corridor finally begin in 2018, especially if we compare it with the many roads across Serbia, which are opening, end and so on? Just to point out that Minister Mihajlovic announced at the end of September that a protocol would be signed on 6 October on the development of project-technical documentation for the French corridor, which apparently shows a major delay in the realization. For those of you who travel across Fruska up, just to remind you, that the condition of the road through the Irish wreath is extremely desperate, so I say, year after year, only the rags of the blast holes, the support walls are gone, there is no protection from the slopes. It's just a traffic sign on which it says, "Be careful the slope," which means that drivers can only beg God not to hit a rock in the car. That way, about 12,000 cars pass, mostly large-scale lorries and large trucks, which cause major damage, especially to the citizens of the Irig municipality. That's why I'm asking these two questions on this occasion, and I'm sorry I didn't get a chance to ask them when the entire government was here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23687	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23688	I thank the chairman. I ask the question of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Government of the Republic of Serbia – what about the proposal to launch an initiative for the adoption of legislation on the validation of the Faculty Protocol on Communication Procedures, an appeal procedure with the Convention on the Rights of the Child of the OP3, which network of Serbian children's organisations, which makes up more than 60 members, has been directed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs since October 2014? In the second phase, the coalition for the protection of the rights of children made up of organisations that also deal with children from Nis, Aleksinac, Književec, Zaječar, Pirota and Vranja restarted the same initiative as the open club from Nis. I am taking this opportunity to remind myself that Serbia has already accepted international communication procedures and procedures and the state has been a party to the Convention on the Rights of the Child since 2001. This procedure, established by the Third Faculty Protocol, is in line with international communication procedures and enables children or their representatives who claim their rights have been violated without being able to obtain a legal remedy. The coalition of organisations following research among children from Nis, Aleksinac, Knjižvac, Zaječar, Pirota, Prokuplja and Vranja received results showing, among other things, that children believe that the ratification of the OP3KPD protocol enables greater safety and personal safety of children, and that the responsibility of institutions and the reputation of the Serbian state is increasing. I note that in the third report on the monitoring of the implementation of the Action Plan for the application of the prevention and protection strategy, paragraph 312 states that this measure has not been implemented. Otherwise, by ratifying the OP3KPD protocol, Serbia fulfils the commitments set out in the Action Plan for Chapter 23, and this issue is a question concerning all children in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23689	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23690	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to take the opportunity today to ask the Prime Minister a question about when will the job that had to be completed by law be completed in March of this year, about the election of directors of public enterprises, based on a competition done? In March of this year, seven months ago, the deadline, the deadline, the deadline, passed by this assembly majority, the law proposed by the government, may not be with this prime minister, but almost in the same composition as today, which has prescribed a deadline of one year for all public enterprises, based on the competition, to hold the election of directors. A director who will no longer be party officials, as was then said, directors who will not be party listeners, who will professionally run public enterprises and who will cure public enterprises from particisation and partocracies. Since none of this happened until March this year, as the ruling majority has set a deadline, my question is when will it happen and will it ever happen? What is the purpose of the law that the Assembly adopts here, the deadlines that we set ourselves by voting, and will something change in Serbia? I believe that while this government won't, but I want to hear if there's an explanation that isn't made up of lies, nonsense, replacement thesis and similar ways when the government is trying not to give an answer to a asked, clearly asked question. We could see that last week when the government and the Prime Minister, when they were here in Parliament, when instead of answering the MPs' questions, we listened repeatedly in the past to false lies, incorrect data, replacement thesis, avoiding direct answers. So, I repeat the question to the Prime Minister – when will the elected directors be completed, based on the competition that should have been completed long ago? While we wait for that answer, as we wait for the government to find time to receive representatives of journalists gathered in the Media Freedom Group, and we heard that she said that she would like to meet with them only without time, so here until she finds that time, to make it a little easier for her to prepare for that meeting, I will repeat the questions that these journalists want to ask the Prime Ministers. Why, that is, when will the members of the government begin to respect the Law on Public Information and the media which explicitly prohibits discrimination against media, editors, journalists and others in the field of public information? How many journalists are under measures, such as tracking recording and covert surveillance of communication? What does the Prime Minister say about 23 attacks against journalists throughout 2013 and only in the first eight months of this year 54? Is this saying that the media situation is better or worse today than it was four or five years ago? To ask the Prime Minister to come up with information on who the police officers were and why they weren't present three months ago when there was an oath from the President of the Republic in this House, who hasn't responded to the attacks, yet unidentified persons on the street? So, who broke into the apartment of journalist Dragane Peco? I hope that we here will get an answer to these questions, as well as that it will come to a meeting, that the Prime Minister will find time to meet with representatives of the Press Freedom Group and will give them answers to this and to a number of other issues that they certainly have for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23691	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23692	I thank you, Chairman. First of all, I would condemn, in front of the PS-NSS-USS parliamentary club, the violent conduct of MP Dvori and the intrusion into the office of our Parliament president, Maja Gojkovic, with a message – let's be hosts, let's not be violent. I would like to ask the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry without portfolios, Mr. Krkobic, and it is about cooperatives. Since we are witnessing that a much wider idea of cooperativeism has been spreading back a year, it is working on cooperativeism and we know, and I know, and the citizens know, that a larger number of newly formed cooperatives are now present on the scene in Serbia. We have 158 new cooperatives. I would ask Minister Krkobic, are the funds that are now defined, 50,000 euros, or six million for new cooperatives and 100,000 euros for old cooperatives, is that enough and will it be possible to increase these funds in the new financial year 2018? We know that through association, through cooperative society, there is a great chance and that in this way we have the opportunity to combine a greater number of agricultural producers, a greater number of people who deal with agriculture, that they can provide better placement for their environment, provide better conditions for working in agricultural production. We are witnessing that through association with cooperatives in this way the grey economy is suppressed and able to monitor where money goes, and normally, in this way, people will have much better conditions to do so, that they can work and that municipalities, such as my municipality, Svrljig municipality, Gajin Han, Bela Palanka municipality, eastern Serbia, through association, can provide themselves with conditions for a better life in their villages, on their land, in their municipalities. In this way we have a chance to strengthen our agriculture, to strengthen our economy, because I think these 100,000 euros for old cooperatives are the means to start good, but in 2018, when the new budget starts, I would also like to ask Minister Krkobbic and the prime minister, and our Serbian president, will we have the opportunity to invest much more in cooperativeism and thus help undeveloped areas, such as the southeast of Serbia? Something else that is very important, and as far as cooperatives are concerned, it is not just agriculture, there are other areas of cooperative, such as veterinary cooperatives. They will now have veterinary cooperatives that will thus be able to provide a better approach to our agricultural producers and thus the veterinarian can provide better income and can be better organised. They also have social cooperatives, they also have student cooperatives, these days we are working on the law on dual education, on higher education, on secondary education, there's this possibility through a student cooperative to provide conditions for young students, young children to sort of join together, can also work in such a way as to provide themselves with better income for work tomorrow. The same question to the Ministry of Agriculture and Mr. Krkobiæ, Minister without portfolio - do local self-governments have solutions, do local self-governments support the cooperative programme in their local self-governments? We know that without the support of local self-government, there is no way that some cooperatives can compete according to the competition announced by the Ministry without Mr Krkobibic's portfolio. Something else that is very important to all of us, and that must be heard, is our diaspora. Our diaspora invests a lot of funds and gives to its own in Serbia. Over $3.6 billion, according to World Bank statistics and data, has returned from the diaspora to Serbia. Can diaspora people be involved in cooperatives and thus help cooperative, to be one of the ways to strengthen the financing of cooperatives? I think that the way of cooperatives for all of us who deal with agriculture, who live in the village, who live in the village, is very important for us, and I would once again support Mr. Krkobibic's cooperative initiative.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23693	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23694	Please don't mind me, I would wish now, because today is the glory of St. Luke and we Orthodox believers celebrate that day, to congratulate all the cattlemen, all the veterinarians, because it is their day and it is their protector. Happy birthday to you! Happy birthday to you!
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23695	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23696	Thank you. Today's anniversary 30th time we are asking questions to President Vukic and 23rd time Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic, and some questions will be repeated. For the president of the Assembly, first question - when did she promise to put a request for her shift on the agenda, to discuss in this House the way she led it? The President of the State's question - when will he resign as party president? Is the "Serbian List" coalition with Ramush Haradinaj an introduction to the release of the preamble from the Constitution? For the Prime Minister, I also join my colleague Ristic and ask the question, namely to provide us with an explicit text of the oath that the judges in Pristina were taking, signed, to see that there is a judge's signature on it, to compare it to that of some fellow MPs, who have received from some of the judges. Furthermore, the question of the Prime Minister - will he react and what will he do about Amphilohi Radovic's statement that Serbian women who have legally interrupted pregnancy in this country are bigger murderers than Hitler and Mussolini? As an Orthodox believer, with great expectation, I expect the prime minister to advise women who feel threatened, where and how to get protection. I would ask the Prime Ministers the question I had already asked her when she presented her exposés in this assembly as the prime minister, but she then disobeyed this issue, so I will repeat it now. Since February, the "Transparency of Serbia" organisation has been trying to obtain a copy of concession acts from a concession study for "Nikola Tesla" Airport, to see if the selected model of concession for Serbia is the most favourable or perhaps more favourable solution, such as investments from its own sources or external bank loans. The Ministry of Transport refused first to provide documents, with an argument that their disclosure would be harmful, and later in its written reply, to the Commissioner's request for information of public importance, replied that it did not own the documents. Therefore, we ask - who has made and who owns the documentation on the granting of "Nikola Tesla" in the concession, since we are sure that there is documentation, because the Public Private Partnership Commission has given this opinion on the act, and this is seen on its site under regular number 44? On 7 September this year, the Administrative Court ruled that the General Secretariat of the Government should deliver the requested information and documents within 15 days, so within the time limit that it has passed, the "Transparency of Serbia" and regarding the concession of the "Nikola Tesla" Airport. The question is - has the Government of the Republic of Serbia delivered the requested documentation within the prescribed ruling of the Administrative Court of "Transparency of Serbia"? We remind you that the silence of the Administration in this case is not allowed in such proceedings and subject to criminal responsibility, and we are also asking the question – is it because of the break-in of the deadline and the earlier silence against anyone from the Government that a criminal procedure has been initiated to hide information about the planned concession for "Nikola Tesla" Airport, our largest airport? The following question is referred to by the minister of justice and we ask – will the Association of Prosecutors and the Association of Judges and NGOs, who left the public debate on constitutional changes, in which they participated at the invitation of the Ministry, will the minister of justice respond to their letter? Also, will she do as she is suggested in this letter, which is that the Ministry of Justice publishes the draft constitutional changes in the domain of the judiciary before it delivers them to the Venice Commission, since both the Association of Prosecutors and the Association of Judges and NGOs, the CEPRIS, Jukom and others who participated in the process of making a proposal for a solution to constitutional changes, expressed considerable concern that such proposals would otherwise endanger the thin, fragile and practically non-existence of the judiciary in this country? The next question is referred again to the President of the Assembly, and we ask it to provide information as long as it has arrived with the implementation of the Public Finance Supervisory Portal, whose introduction of the Assembly MPs was announced two years ago, i.e. It'll be two years in December. And then, as recently, it was said that first the members of the Finance Committee would gain insight and access to the Public Finance Monitoring Portal, and only after that were the other MPs. But that promise has been almost two years. So, as in the Marathons, they said money in April in January, and since that promise last year. So, when are we going to get an accurate insight into the country's public finances through access to the Public Finance Supervisory Portal, which provides detailed analytical insight into spending the country's budget funds on taxpayers' taxpayers? The next question is referred to the finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23697	Thanks, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23698	All right, time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23699	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Radojićic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23700	Thank you. Question for Minister Zorana Mihajlović and Director of Corridor Serbia Zoran Babić – on what criteria did the car owned by Corridorkoko Superb, BG 669-BB license plate, assigned to former Minister Željko Sertic for personal use, as well as which artist gave the card to the mentioned Sertic, with whom he poured fuel on the pumps “Gasprom” for free? Question for Aleksandar Vukic – did you order then Prime Minister Saša Radulovic as an MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to pay from the Development Fund a million and a half euros to Cedomir Jovanovic, on the grounds that we will need Ceda? When Radulovic refused, did you give him that money, which was paid by your godfather Goran Veselinović, and has that money been returned to you? Question for Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic – by what criteria do you impose penalties from the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly? Is MP Srdjan Nogo excluded in order to prevent the National Assembly from hearing about crime and corruption at the top of the state, or is it excluded because he mentioned 750 judges who have SNS membership cards and who are granted the most favourable loans in banks? Is it excluded because he said that Ana Brnabic did not pass security checks as an agent of foreign intelligence services, or was it excluded because the first in Serbia discovered that Vucic's best man Nikola Petrovic and his best man Nenad Kovac own private listening centres in Belgrade? Or what we found that the SNS washed two million euros from black funds in the presidential elections? Or is it shut down because in the Dverlix affair we have released secret footage showing corrupt politicians and bankers launder dirty money that comes from drug trafficking? Why is half the Dverry parliamentary group excluded? For example, why is Maria Janjusevic excluded? Is it possible that because we asked who gave the loan to Zeljko Mitrovica, the owner of Pinka, worth 27m euros and who he had to pay fivem euros for it? Whose aunt, godmother or brother is that account? The presidents of the National Assembly another question – why, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, is the president of our Bosko Obradovic parliamentary group excluded? Although the stenogram clearly states that you excluded it only for the current session, yesterday it was disabled to enter the hall and attend the work of the Assembly for the next 20 working days. Is that why the change in the constitution and the last task you have to fulfill with the surrender of Kosovo and Metohija? Is that why all those who are ready to oppose Kosovo's betrayal must be excluded? Is it forbidden in this assembly to talk about Vuker's friends, Clinton, Blair, Shredder, Soros, Thaci, Haradinaj? A question for the president and the government of Serbia – why not publish the entire contents of the Brussels Agreement and remove the designation of state secrets from it? The public doesn't know what's in the Brussels agreements after four years and what you promised your Western mentors when they brought you to power in 2012. A question for Alexander Vukic, why has it been nine years since 2008, at the beginning of each month your trusted man paid 35,000 euros in cash to William Montgomery, the former American ambassador, and why? Question for Alexander Vukic, how is the water project agreed? Could it have been in 2009, when you met, as this photograph shows, with Milo Djukanovic and Muhammad Dahlan, who is otherwise accused of international terrorism? Whose money are being washed in “Belgrade on Water”? Question for the President of Parliament, what is the issue on this poster? "Vučić, brother, godfather, thieves" is just an association game where you have recognized yourself, in which you recognized the president of your party, his brother and his godmother.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23701	Thank you. Comrade Radojcic, as you can see, no one has interrupted you, you were allowed to ask a question. I see that you too have been uncomfortable because you realize that most of the questions you have asked are not in line with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but I leave it to you. Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23702	I have a question for Mr Vujovic's finance minister. A large number of MPs in this hall, but also high officials in the Republic of Serbia, have been talking about the inherited debt to the city of Belgrade since 2014. According to the methodology of Sinisha Mali and Goran Vesic, a 1.2 billion-euro debt is mentioned. In the second methodology of the Fiscal Council, the report we received in the Republic Assembly, professors from the Fiscal Council claim that the debt is 400m euros, so three times less than what Mali and Vesic were talking about. My question is for Mr Vujovic, as responsible minister – what is the methodology, according to you, valid and accurate? Is this the methodology of Mali and Vesic or Professor Pavel Petrovic's methodology? So three times the figure that is presented very often by public service and also by this Assembly. The second question is the state of public finances and the financing of cities and local self-government. We received a report from the Fiscal Council warning us that the extremely poor financial situation in Serbia's cities and municipalities could endanger the overall fiscal and monetary stability in the Republic of Serbia and endanger Serbia's economic growth. We now have examples that in the first nine months some of the cities have budgeting in percentage terms relative to the 50% plan, it is Kragujevac and Nis, that the realisation of the New Sad budget is about 65%, and similar percentages are in these other cities and municipalities. So we are interested and we want the information from Minister Vujovic about giving us a report after the first nine months on filling cities and municipalities' budgets, as well as on the implementation of these same budgets, because this is extremely important in the future debate on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, because we have the most important legal document in this year, and this is the adoption of the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Without these reports, surely that debate will not be competent enough. The third and most important issue for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is the question of the finance minister – when will the funds taken from the citizens of Serbia who have achieved their pension right? Here we are at the beginning of November, tomorrow is November 1st, it's been three years since this assembly passed the Law on Temporary Salutation and Pensions. The deadline for the provisionality of this law was three years, later the deadline was abolished and this law was turned into a permanent solution. We don't think that's sustainable because it's counter-constitutionally deprived of the rights of Serbian citizens who have achieved that pension law and has been taken away from it for about 340m euros annually, for three years the total amount is about a billion euros. So now I return to that question to Minister Vujovic. The decision to cut pensions to all who receive more than 25,000 has led to a decrease of 10% for those of 25,000 two and a half thousand dinars, for those of 30,000 for three thousand dinars. Knowing that the poverty line in Serbia is for the four-member family of 31,500 dinars, while the minimum consumer basket is 36,000 dinars, therefore, is missing about 4,500 dinars until the minimum needs of the four-member family in Serbia are met. That's the key questions. Some may have small amounts, but they mean the minimum conditions for the lives of many families in Serbia. It's about 8% of people in Serbia below the poverty line, which means it's about 560,000 people in Serbia somewhere. So it's an extremely important thing. Regarding the issue, Minister Vujovic, we are not so irresponsible as to bid on the level of debt of the Republic of Serbia. It is currently, according to official data, at 24 billion and 500m euros. If we were to apply, if your answer is that the valid methodology of Mali and Vesic is, how much would the debt of the Republic of Serbia be, because their methodology does not double, but tripples the nominal and real debt of the city of Belgrade? That would mean that the debt of the Republic of Serbia would be three times...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23703	Time. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23704	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a few questions for Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, Minister of Business Goran Knezevic, as competent and Alexander Vukic, who is in fact informing us about all this, although it is not his jurisdiction. Since 2012, the Progressive Authority has continued the devastating economic policy of the Democratic Party to grant subsidies to foreign companies operating in Serbia. Thus, not only is Serbia's economy damaged, but Serbian businessmen are discriminated against and seem uncompetitive on the domestic market. We receive daily information about the opening of the power plant of major global companies across Serbia and a large number of employees, however, the situation on the ground is quite different from the state of television. For example, on 7 June 2017, Aleksandar Vukic officially opened the Ametek plant in Subotica and announced that 500 workers would work there, and five months later, according to the Agency for Business Registers, 186 people were employed there. I am interested – how much did the state of Serbia pay on behalf of the company's subsidies, do 500 workers, according to Vukic, or 186, have real employees? We only know that the state and municipality of Subotica invested 2m euros in land. The answers to these questions I think are of general interest and I am sure that all citizens of Serbia, even those who voted for the ruling parties, are expecting them. How much exactly is the drive of foreign companies open in Serbia and local self-government? How many workers started working immediately after the plant was opened, and how much later and how much later? How much State budget funding has been spent on every job? Are real jobs or supposed jobs in the future financed from the budget? Are real funds invested to finance jobs in foreign companies or are these businesses and to what extent are they financed from loans? Who suffers from the cost of retraining and training of future workers? How much money did local self-government invest in these jobs? How much through the free allocation of construction land and how much through the provision of municipal infrastructure? What is the average salary of employees in these subsidized companies? All this data we are looking for must be analytically done by local self-governments, and not collectively, how representatives of the government, and above all Alexander Vukic, like to bring it to the media, in order to fascinate the public. I ask and, most importantly, the answer to the question -- how many foreign companies have left Serbia after their deadline has expired in which they spent the subsidy funds they received from the state of Serbia and how many people have lost their jobs? In the end, what happens to "Fire" from Valjev? Are the exact information that "Gorenje" from Valjev is considering leaving Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23705	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23706	I thank the chairman. I'll take the opportunity to ask two MPs questions. First question I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The question relates to the answers I would like to receive, and concerns Mr Erdogan's visit to Serbia with his associates, and in this sense how is the diplomatic level of the relationship of the Republic of Serbia with the state of Turkey assessed, especially after visiting Mr Erdogan? In what direction are these diplomatic relations planned to develop further? Is this how the level of overall co-operation with the state of Turkey is raised? What is Mr Erdogan's assessment of diplomacy and diplomatic activities of the Republic of Serbia, the superior Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Mr Dacic's minister? Furthermore, how does Mr Dacic assess the diplomatic relations of the Republic of Serbia with countries, primarily the EU, as well as with the countries of the World Community? In what sense have these relations been qualitatively advanced in relation to the period of diplomatic relations of the Republic of Serbia before 2012? How does Mr Dacic see his role as foreign minister in the development of diplomatic relations especially in communication with diplomats and statesmen with whom this communication is being realized? This issue is particularly raised for the reasons that a number of civil servants, especially from opposition parties, show our diplomacy in one stupid, vulgar and inappropriate way, so the question arises – how does this occur when the diplomatic level of the relationship between the Republic of Serbia in any case merits the attention of citizens when it comes to our relations both political and economic and overall other relations with all countries and Europe and the Council. The second question I would like to ask concerns the current rehabilitation process of Milan Nedic, which is currently in place before the competent court and in that sense the issue of the Government of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice, if it is a resolute ministry of justice for such a matter and jurisdiction - will it be allowed, by the provisions of the existing Rehabilitation Act, and if we do not amend it, to come to something that would be devastating for the Republic of Serbia, which would be devastating for the past of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, our ancestors, all those who fought for freedom, all those who fought for freedom, on the side of something that implies a lofty ideal, and a lofty ideal is precisely freedom on the side of those who were always oppressed and oppressed by the conquerors, whether they were fascists or some like fascists? If it doesn't change, don't change the Rehabilitation Act, we'll be in a situation of complete distortion of history, exorcising historical facts. We will be in a position to rehabilitate, not only rehabilitated, but abolized by all the beasts, all the evils that they have inflicted on all the nations and peoples in World War II on the territory of the current or former SFRY. Whether, if the Rehabilitation Act is not amended, that not only Milan Nedic, but everyone else will get an open door for the abolization of something that cannot be allowed, not only in terms of the desecration of history, history is one, but it will allow us all to come together into a situation to trample all the assets of the people's liberation struggles of the First World War and all the wars that have been liberating and free-loving wars for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23707	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Goran Pekarski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23708	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, above all, I would like to congratulate the glory of St. Luke on all those who celebrate today, and I would especially welcome the citizens of Belgrade. Given that my question I wanted to ask the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice will go, but above all, I wanted to ask the President of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, who was encouraged by these events that were happening today, and I have forgotten what I wanted to ask as basic questions, and that is, will there be a proposal in front of this house, or a solution to tightening sanctions for individuals or groups, MP groups who abuse this home and who send an ugly picture of this home in certain perfomances? In fact, I think that sanctions should be tightened especially when in some Shakespearean dramatology or haletic doubt we recite a stone in the cabbage by calling it a stone country of Serbia or by breaking into the office of the president of the National Assembly, and on the other hand by saying hate to deny the existence of certain peoples and nations and their rights to language definitions, I mean specifically the Bosniak people and denying the existence of territory in which they live. That was the first question to Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, president of the National Assembly. The second question I wanted to ask is precisely based on what I welcomed the citizens of Belgrade, and it is initiated by what will soon happen, at least I think it will be just or perhaps not, but there will be city elections, or elections for the Belgrade City Assembly and council members in the Belgrade City Assembly. We all know that tensions are growing and political parties are proposing their candidates, names are being made public. Some suggest political parties, and some go around and collect support and try to present themselves now as messiahs that are likely to cross the Calemegdan somewhere, come down to the coast of Belgrade, slam the stick on the coast, spread the waters of the Sava Danube and lead as they say in their concern for this people, the suffering people are probably taking over the great War Island there somewhere, for them better yesterday, in some 2009, 2010, 2012. Incentived by this, I want all candidates who are proposed by political parties, or in any way, to be transparent and to be discussed in this House through parliamentary issues on behalf of each and every one of them and to get close to the citizens who, what they were, what they were, especially those who were in some public function, who made decisions on behalf of these citizens, to know exactly what they were doing, what they were doing today, and what we can expect from them tomorrow if they were chosen by chance. The question of the Ministry of the Interior and Justice was based on Mr. Markovic's discussion the other day, a joke I heard almost, in fact not even a joke, it's a joke anymore, it's not even funny, it's kind of commercial. One simple extended sentence, which is more... It's simple because it just can't happen, and it's expanded because it wants to be told what the subject wants to be, and it says, Dragan Gilas wants to be mayor of Belgrade again. Since we can't, Mr. Gilasu and no one has the right to forbid him to run, because his constitutional right to choose and be chosen. I just want to help the citizens of Serbia through these issues, to remember everything that has been done and to know what our benefits are. Whether we have some good benefits, or we have some consequences that we still suffer today from that period when he decides. I wanted to ask the question, was there an indication or was someone involved in the investigation, that is to say, by tracking the flow of money that went from the Belgrade City budget to some of the companies that were doing services to the City of Belgrade, paid by Mr. Gilas from the budget, and that these companies did not, in some cases, co-operate with Mr. Gilas' private firm, which they again received through the company, leased minutes over some media that were directly related to the Belgrade City budget because they were financed, subsidized and donated by the City of Belgrade? This should be considered, since there may be an act of abuse of official position, trade of influence or acquisition against legal gain to itself or to a third party. Another question I wanted to ask, which is again from Mr. Markovic's discussion, he probably reminded all those people and friends around me who asked me a question – what about Mr. Dragan Gilas's degree of responsibility in the affair - Bulevar? We all know who the alpha and omega were...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23709	I'd like to thank my colleague, Pekarski. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we are continuing to work... (Balsa Bozovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. I saw my colleague Bozovic. We continue our work and move on to a search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on dual education. Notification of the invitations to the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today they are invited to attend the meetings of Mladen Sarcevic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development; Prof. Vladimir Džamić and Anamarija Vicek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development; Gabriela Grujić Garić, Vesna Nedeljković and Dr. Aleksandar Pajic, Deputy Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, and Aleksandar Marković, Head of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. You have received amendments submitted by MPs under the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23710	I thank the chairman. I'm advertising Article 157 and 158. I ask you, no matter what you are chairman, to give us an answer that will be valid and when the President of the Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, enters this room, that this answer is also valid in the case of its chairmanship - which is correct and in what way do you measure the time when the debate is in particular? One is prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and one is on the e-parliament, which all MPs in this room can follow, and the other is the measurement by the President of the Maya Gojkovic Assembly, who, at the last session, cut the time by 255 minutes, when it comes to discussion in particular. We are now interested in whether what it says on the e-parliament applies to us or whether some new method has been used by the President of the Assembly, which the MPs know absolutely nothing about? It is very important to tell us how and how, as she said, she measured every amendment manually, every second, every minute, and how did the MPs not know? If the e-parliament is something that is available to the MPs so that we can inform ourselves in time of how many minutes there are left to discuss in particular, then I ask you now to tell us how and how this time is measured and can we get that new method, if it is not already an e-parliament? Otherwise, by force, Maja Gojkovic can cut our time short, as she thinks she should. I ask you to allow every MP to know exactly how many minutes, hours to be made available when it comes to discussion in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23711	I thank my colleague Bozovic. It is not up to me, my colleague Bozovic, to measure the time, but to hold a session, and time is measured in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and that is, of course, the technical service. You can get information from them at any time, of course. On the other hand, of course no one has the intention to deny anyone the right to speak, nor to take away anyone's time. So time is measured in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23712	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 103 of Section 1 and Section 8. I'm pointing this out right after the injury was done. The previous speaker pointed to the injury, so he could point to the injury from the time of Mrs. Comic. On this same resolution, if you can point to an injury that was seven days ago and 14 days ago, I know that he is weak in mathematics, that he does not know that we have collected, that 459 amendments have passed, and that theoretically enough is 300 amendments to fill those 10 hours, but that he was weak in mathematics doesn't justify us, nor the chairman, and since in this Assembly, and the event with the president of the National Assembly that I condemn has been in its rooms, we never know when the problem can escalate, I don't blame you for the tolerance of the opposition, but you must take a firm stand at first, and since this victory was completely unnecessary, unnecessary and against the Rules of Procedure, it is not in accordance with Article 1, I suggest that you take two minutes in accordance with the attitude of the 8th parliamentary group and thus put into the knowledge that you won't be able to use this kind of injury in any way. Thank you. I'm not asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23713	I thank my colleague Rističević. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23714	I thank the chairman. I believe that you have injured Article 108 and that you do not adequately take care of the order at this session, or that, on a warm recommendation, you should perhaps listen a little more carefully and by not raising any additional tension where there is no place at the beginning of this session, because we are on several occasions, and now immediately before my reaction hears about some alleged incursions and attacks on the president of the National Assembly. None of the MPs sitting here, as far as I know, know anything about it. That's the only thing they're going to find out, let's just say, on both sides of the actors who are calling themselves here, citizens when the news gets out, because the only thing we could hear about it, and not directly, is from the National Assembly Hall, where also the president of the Maya Gojkovic National Assembly and colleagues from the Dveri Parliament Club spoke to the media, not during the session, that anyone has informed us about it. I believe that the MPs of most abuse their speech from the very beginning here, imputing guilt for an act or some action that no one here knows about. Well, either let us know what happened, of course taking into account all the foreign participants in that alleged incident, or I'm asking you every time to warn or interrupt the speakers who start talking, like it's a dry fact and the truth, and I'm holding that it's not, as long as we don't hear what happened. No one here knows what happened. So I beg you and appeal once again, or explain to us what happened, or don't ever leave room to manipulate that information as one-sided truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23715	I don't see what I've done to hurt the Rules of Procedure and hurt the particular member you've called for. Do you want the National Assembly of the Days of Votes to be heard about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Thank you. On behalf of Chapter I, the title above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23716	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Minister, we have in principle said that we strongly oppose the adoption of a dual education law. That's why we suggested erasing every member of his staff. We think that by adopting this law, you're going to do irreparable damage to generations of children who are yet to enter the labour market, to those who have yet to enter the education process, and to all those who need to live in this country for the next few decades. What you've given us in an explanation for the rejection of this amendment, and then every subsequent amendment that we have submitted, every word of this, Mr. Sarčević, is either false or superficial. You say at the beginning that the amendment is not accepted because it does not comply with the Education Development Strategy in Serbia by 2020. You know what, you just have to have a fat cheek to make something like this hard. All who wrote the Education Strategy by 2020 oppose the introduction of dual education. This strategy, like all modern worlds, insists that children stay in the education system as long as possible, that someone goes to a three-year-old school, only because of sickness, because of some exceptional circumstances, that the exception is that children go to a three-year-old school, and you here offer three-year-olds of education as some kind of sacred grail that will save them from poverty, which will allow some kind of work or, the biggest lie in a series of all, that will allow them to start their own businesses tomorrow. So, everything that's written in the Education Strategy, you're pushing down with this bill, you're offering kids low-paid jobs, low-paid jobs, you're making it impossible for them to continue their education and use the misery of their parents who are going to use 10,000 or 15,000 dinars in the house, and that's how you kill those kids the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23717	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23718	Thank you. The chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, among other things, this amendment, is, in fact, the very amendment to the paradigm is actually the situation in this Assembly, the state of society and the relationship of the opposition's work with each draft law, in this case, the draft law on dual education. So we have an amendment proposing to delete, delete titles, delete text above titles, delete Article 1. etc., and the article 1 and the title above the article that edits the content itself, so the subject of the law and everything else in principle. The previous speaker suggests erasing. The government of the Republic of Serbia has refused such an amendment with, I must admit, the most comprehensive explanation I have seen since I was an MP for all these years. This is the most comprehensive explanation I've read in two terms already. I don't think there's ever been a more comprehensive explanation. What's the answer to that? Nothing, no answer. She didn't even read it. She characterized it as a lie, but she didn't even read it. That she read it, and I'm sorry that I don't have time to read the explanation that's on three densely typed sides, but there's no answer. There's no even entering the essence. There's no getting into the metrics. There's no argument, but there's a erasure. Let's wipe it out. What are we gonna do with that? What message is sent by that? At every attempt at a reasoned debate, we, on the other hand, come across a wall, come across silence, or wipe out that amendment. This is also the attitude to this law, to the home of the National Assembly, which opposition MPs show. I hope that the citizens are watching this and I hope that the citizens in the elections will be able to adequately reward this kind of behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23719	Thank you. By amendment, MP Gjorge Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23720	Thank you, Chairman. I'll use the time of the head of the parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, before I go along with the amendment, you will not blame me for notifying members of this parliament and citizens of Serbia who have not so far learned that the Government of the Republic of Surinam on 27 October 2017 made a decision to withdraw the recognition of the Republic of Kosovo and sent the same note to the so-called "Republic of Surinam" on 27 October 2017. the Republic of Kosovo. As for the law on dual education, all praises for the intent given through this law and for what may be suggested that this law will take place in the future. It is absolutely inappropriate to lead Serbian citizens astray from their resignations from this home, acting as if by the law on dual education, which in fact only builds up, opens up and provides an opportunity for an additional practical, qualified training of future masters of production workers, as if all other secondary education in Serbia had been abolished and there would be no more gymnasium or any other school. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that is simply not true. No one on the force will have to go to a school where dual education will be conducted. It is totally rude and inappropriate to present this to Serbian citizens in such a way. I believe that the citizens of Serbia absolutely know that and that they are aware of it, but I think they should underline it because of an inappropriate attitude of the opposition. Good masters don't come from reading books, by reading about it from the Internet, but from practice, at work, in a school workshop, and in Serbia definitely as a consequence of the way we've been educated in the last 20 years we don't have a quality master today. Citizens of Serbia, just ask yourself who today as a trained master starts your apartments, repairs your washing machines, repairs the devices, white technique and everything else. Is it a shame to be a worker, from your work to live? This is pure demagogy, citizens of Serbia, respected colleagues. I don't know how long the opposition colleagues will continue to insult an honorable and good intention like this? The fact that students who gain knowledge will be trained tomorrow to be good workers, quality, trained to engage in the process of work, will have the opportunity to be paid for it and to criticise it, it is indeed a nonsensical of all nonsensities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23721	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the MPs' group of Friendships with Serbia's Islamic Advisory Assembly of the Islamic Republic of Iran, which today's session is being followed from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly. Let me greet them on your behalf. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Nikola Savic and Vjerica Radet, together Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Palović, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić and Mr Jasmina Nikolic and together Marko Đurišić, Miroslav Aleksić, Nenad Konstanović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23722	We only continue with amendments what we have announced in the principle debate. All of what you have classified as norms and as provisions of this bill do not reach that level that as an area can be a special law. That's the first big flaw. Another major lack of this bill is practically indeterminateness, something that has existed in us for decades as an education and professional practice in order to obtain an educational profile from something that we say in layman's terms. That's what we have here. This should be raised to some slightly higher quality, but this is primarily the task of educational institutions. The third perhaps biggest problem is that you put into this a Chamber of Commerce which could essentially not be the perpetrator of public authority, because it is a legal person with the status of the Association of Citizens. I do not dispute that in the mutilation of the chamber system for the past ten years, the Chamber of Commerce has received something that is completely incompatible with the activity of the Chamber of Commerce, which is a license for real estate, so security and not to order further. It would not be good if something that is eminent, belongs to education, goes to an NGO, and avoids the Labour Market Office as an inevitable institution. I have to draw attention to you that educational profiles define the state, the code of occupation defines the state, the economy, so if you can say the Chamber of Commerce only shows its needs, and everything is realized in another relationship. I'm interpreting this that you've come to the conclusion that if some funds from abroad are to be used, you should be able to use the termologically and through the law to comply with the requirements that come from the side, to use some means, and believe me, a large number of provisions are inapplicable, especially the part where licences are to be granted by the Chamber of Commerce for some who participate in the educated process. Well, it's a kind of negation of existing educational institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23723	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23724	Thank you, Chairman. We from the New Party and the KSP believe that this law on dual education is not only unnecessary, it is not in line with the Education Development Strategy in the Republic of Serbia by 2020, but it is also harmful by many things, and therefore this member and all others through our amendments require that it be deleted, because it is a reflection of the political attitude that this law should not be passed and should not be applied to our young fellow citizens and citizens. What is extremely important to say to this Article 1, which is the most general and deals with the subject matter of the law, as its name says, is that we have not actually heard in the principle debate from Mr. Minister who is all consulted, or is not consulted on not only the making of this law, but when determining the need for this law to happen, and I am sure that we have not heard it for one very important reason, which is that none of the most needy conversators participated in drawing up the draft and then turning it into a bill, which is now here in front of the MPs. Namely, the only, under quotes, government partner as a proposing turned out to be the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which is given some status as a social partner, which it is not, because it is an interest organisation established by law force, rather than free association between its members and members. Also, the representative unions were not involved in this, which we can often hear about in recent days, because they are trying to distract the public from being consulted. Neither the Union of Employers of Serbia has been consulted, and I must say that the Anti-Corruption Agency has prepared its opinion, which has also not been given an insight into the general public, where it has expressed serious doubts about the corrupt elements of this bill. As far as I was able to find out in parallel, and I was very committed to the parallel provisions, barely 3% or 4% of the opinion and the Agency's recommendation to fight corruption was integrated into the bill, i.e. most of the corruption elements that the Anti-Corruption Agency has voiced concern that they will be open by adopting this law and continue to stand in this bill. I just want to hear from the minister why it's like that, why is the only reason why what you've explained is a comprehensive research? We don't know what research it was, which is what it does, who took part in that study, which were the target groups, which were the results. We've heard that the reason for this law is comprehensive research, the need for economy. That's all, of course, the flat rate, I say, without this basic information, and some experience in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. I would like to know why you didn't consult the Union of Employers of Serbia or representative trade unions and why you didn't determine the largest part, and it would be ideally anything from the opinion of the Anti-Corruption Agency, so we know exactly what we are on, and not that it actually turns out that this law is the result of what we call a deal between the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and the Government, that is, Alexander Vukic's policy, which should actually be implemented through services to foreign investors by turning our children into a cheap workforce? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23725	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica, mentioning the president of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23726	Because of these redacted completely empty stories of cheap labor and everything that goes with it. We, ladies and gentlemen, have already talked here about the law itself and what this law means. They can't agree on the other side, is this now some kind of planetary disaster that happens for the first time, or is it, as the same people who give themselves a lot of room for criticism again, on topics they obviously know very little about, is this something we've already had, so it didn't work out. They can't figure out what's out of those two things. Whatever these two things are, this is about extra knowledge, extra skills, extra training. What the hell is wrong with that? Will something be particularly different about any fate if he knows more, if he's more capable of work tomorrow? It can only be good for him. Well, there have been three years of programs, so we heard here and a speech on the subject, a speech with the ambition to speak against three-year programs. Well, there are. Was there a planetary disaster because they existed? Well, it's not. Will your programs only be better if someone has more knowledge, more skills? Of course they can only be better. As for those stories about subsidies and stories about companies, let's say if you want to talk about the subject, because I see that everyone wants to talk to you today only about some broad stories and principled debates, let's see for a start whether you have any idea on the other hand how many programs are signed in this country, since when there are, how many have gone to domestic legal persons and how many, originally, foreign legal persons? Let's see if they even know what we're talking about, if they want to talk about it, and then we'll talk about everything Serbia knows very well, and what's the benefit for the state and what's the number of new jobs. We can also touch that fat cheek mentioned today, that we are being debated by those who are personally responsible for the lost hundreds of thousands of jobs. They're gonna need a very thick cheek, but they're gonna need a little knowledge. Let's see if he's got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23727	Thank you. The proposal is proposed by the amendment MP Nenad Konstantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23728	Dear Vice-President of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, ministers, representatives of the ministry, therefore, the SDS said it would not vote in favour of the dual education law, because we believe that this concept of dual education is not good, that it is not well set and that the law is impossible to fix, because it is set badly. That's why we suggested that all members of this bill be deleted. The first member of the law explains what dual education is. We believe that dual education leads exclusively to the creation of cheap labour, that it favours employers, i.e. the owners of large capital, that absolutely nothing is new and anything quality for citizens and the state, that it is a concept that employers, i.e. large capital, will take cheap labour, i.e. children aged 15 to 18 and that this law should not be passed. You have said in your explanation why you reject this amendment that this law will allow for the modernisation and creation of new profiles consistent with modern technological development, that due to the inability to look at real work processes, real working environments and the handling of all production processes, young people are denied the possibility of becoming experts, etc. So, the program, the curricula, is determined by the minister. The educational profiles needed are determined by the ministry and the ministry can do, and what needs to be done, it is a reform of secondary education and to say what profiles are needed, in which municipalities, given the needs of the economy. It's not a dispute, but it's not settled by this law. This law doesn't deal with profiles. This law deals exclusively with defining a child at age 15 as dual. He's being denied further education and he's going to work while he's at school, working, and he's paid 30% less than the minimum labour price. In a situation where Serbia is today, where we do not have a business in expansion and where we do not know what workforce, I think you will only bring this law to the point that those who are unemployed remain unemployed, that we have even more unemployed who have finished high school or colleges, and that those who are 15 to 18 will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23729	Thank you. The amendment is proposed by Parliamentarian Branka Stamenković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23730	Thank you. The MP group Enough has submitted a series of amendments "be deleted" to the Duo Education Act. We believe that this time, which we have spent and resources to write this law and only the time and resources that will be used and used to implement it, we have been able to use much more usefully to focus them on the basic problem of Serbian education, which is poor primary school education. Today, we introduce double just to somehow justify the bad results that children have at the time they graduate from primary school. Please, it's unserious to solve problems like that. We, instead of one wear-out coat, completely replace the new one, we patch something up on it for the sixth time. That coat is comfortable and we all feel comfortable in it, it would take us a while to get used to the new coat, but we have to move on to that new coat. Why is basic education so bad and then why do we end up having bad results, so we need some kind of dual to justify them? Because, first of all, it's not free. Because it's not real, it's just like fairy tales for free. We have a big difference between children attending school, compared to the financial strengths of their parents. Children of parents who are better standing have better chances and are favored by the current system of primary school education that at the end of this primary school education they have better results, thus passing towards high school and college, while children of poorer parents, and today most of the parents in Serbia, believe it or not, are simply neglected in this system. We are free of our primary school education, which is guaranteed by the Constitution, we must begin to introduce the beginnings of textbooks, which represent a terrible financial pressure for parents and a blow in September to the budget of each household. The average monthly income of a household is 57,000 dinars. A set of textbooks costs 10 to 17,000 dinars depending on which class the child attends. If one household has more than one child, it is simply impossible to finance from that average household income. Parents take loans, grandparents and pension blankets to buy textbooks without talking about other invisible costs. free education, like the fact that kids at school don't learn, and then when they come home, parents have to pay them private teachers, if they have money to pay. Who's got to pay? He's making progress. Who does not pay, lags at school and awaits this, unfortunately, dual education in our country, which has no developed domestic industry, will only create cheap labour for foreign corporations who will not even come here voluntarily, but we will pay them off to the subsidies to come and employ the children who had bad outcomes, bad results at the end of primary school education, only because their parents are poorer, and the irresponsible our country has not made sure that our education is truly free of charge, as the Constitution guarantees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23731	Thank you. (Vladimir Orlic: Rules of Procedure. It's full of leaves. Wait a minute, I'm gonna have to delete the list. Please, fellow Members of Parliament, who have signed up to speak by amendment, just a moment. Comrade Eagle, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23732	Article 106, Mr. Chairman, agenda issue. If we're going to discuss the amendments, then, please, let's make sure that we avoid, not a trap, but a completely pointless situation so that the MP can do anything or write in the explanation of the amendments, and that it has nothing to do with the subject of the agenda, or the subject of a member trying to intervene or, even worse, that in the oral explanation, he talks about whatever comes to his mind, and that it has nothing to do with the agenda, or the article he's trying to intervene on. Maybe from the noise in the O.R. you didn't hear, but I listened very carefully. Does it make any sense for us to discuss the Law on Dual Education and to listen to the story of primary school education, textbooks, some half-pathic about grandparents, the average salary in Serbia, etc.? What does this have to do with what is being discussed right now? Even the level of education isn't right. We'll talk about basic school education later today or tomorrow, but this is a completely missed sphere, absolutely missed topic. Is it possible that we have to attend these things every time, that's a question for you, Mr. Chairman, but also for all of us in this room, when someone learns one of those same songs and then intends to repeat it all of God's day until they've exhausted the full time for discussion in detail, that there's no deeper reason? So that question of respect for the Rules of Procedure, it's a matter of elemental order and relation to this place here and to the citizens who sent us. We're not sent here, and I guess everyone responsible enough understands that we're having fun, that we're filling ourselves with time, that we're giving ourselves some kind of fun to spend the day here. We here need to discuss what is the subject of the agenda. You certainly know that, Mr. Chairman, so I'm not going to ask you to vote on this particular thing, to plead it out, but just to make sure this doesn't turn into another sad tirada that Sasa Radulovic once held in this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23733	Comrade Orlic, it is my pleasure that one of the MPs suggested that we go back to the topic and talk about what is a part of the agenda and that we do not look at in this broad context of the amendment that we are having today, because if one of us chaired it, we would be talking again in the context that we do not want to and do not allow the opposition to speak. I'm glad you noticed that as a folk MP. I ask all MPs to talk about the amendments that are the subject of today's debate. As far as I'm concerned, you don't want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. The word is from MP Vlado Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23734	Thank you. Dear President, Mr. Minister with fellow Members, and fellow Members of Parliament, I propose that this amendment should not be adopted because this proposal for a law on dual education, which the Serbian government has referred to in the assembly procedure, should allow for a more effective education, as well as employment of young people immediately after the completion of high school, and also reduce the rate of unemployed young people to 25 years of life, as well as strengthening Serbia's competitiveness, both at regional and global level. The aim of the proposal is to adapt the overall concept of the development system of education and education in Serbia to the times and conditions in which it can take place, that students can choose between educational profiles that contain more skills in themselves, and in terms of achieving optimal results in each stage of education and education, regardless of whether it is for the purpose of continuing education or education to enter the process of work. At the same time, the possibility of continuous examination of the analysis and improvement of teaching content is realised. This proposal for a law on education is based on foreign experiences, primarily Germany, Austria, and is adapted to domestic needs. It is in the interest of companies to get an expert entry immediately after high school, which will not go to the labour market to further train at various courses, but to be able to start working immediately. If companies honor this agreement and immediately hire those children, it will motivate many students to achieve their benefits and decide on this kind of education. As for the assessment of the introduction of dual education into the educational system for the needs of the Serbian Army, which provides for the education of five profiles in the Air Force Academy, you, Mr. Sarcevic and Minister Djordjevic, signed an agreement on co-operation to educate these academics from the next school year on a dual education model. These boys and girls will be working in the future to maintain the MiG 29, new helicopters, taking care of the regularity and safety of both the aircraft and the safety of our pilots. In addition to these, two new profiles will be introduced at the Academy, and this is the profile of weapons technicians and ammunition and missile systems technicians, and all of these students will receive from the next school year on the work of the factory dedicated industry "Freedom", "Red Flag" and "First Partizan". In the system, we currently have 1,832 companies, which are small and medium-sized enterprises, who are interested in joining the dual education programme. Also, 3,000 children are waiting to be included in this kind of schooling. So the introduction of dual education is completely realistic and needs Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23735	Thanks, buddy. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23736	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, we will, of course, refuse this amendment, because it denies the entire Double Education Act. We have not heard today from these amendments and in a general debate any valid criticism of this law, and also no valid proposal. Therefore, I am free to say that this Duo Education Act is the largest pedagogical reform step of the SNS and its President, Alexander Vukic, who initiated the adoption of... The opposition's emissaries resent it. I see some unarticulated screams... ... which initiated the adoption of this law as Mladen Sarcevic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, in the last 16 years, although the introduction of the elements of dual education into secondary vocational education in Serbia began in 2013. Mr. Vice President, I must say that it is tragic, and perhaps regrettable that this law on dual education to attack, instead of proposing measures to improve it, those from the ranks of the former regime's party who brought our education to the lowest possible extent in the history of pedagogy and pedagogical ideas, such as the late Gašo Knezevic, Slobodanka Turajlic, former assistant minister of the former regime, who these days declared against the adoption of this law at all, and therefore you can see why this amendment is against the adoption of this law. She's one of the main culprits, along with Kovac Tinda, the destruction of our education system in the previous period. If there were at least a little professorly honor and pedagogical, civil, national responsibilities, and what is not, it should not appear in public with its devastating statements, because history, which will not forgive anyone, will certainly put the history of pedagogy, thought, in place that it deserves. In that sense, I am against the adoption of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23737	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23738	Thank you very much. I speak as authorized for this item of the agenda and in principle the views of the Independent Members' Club, the New Party, have already been expressed. Then I sent an appeal to the minister to convince the government to withdraw this bill. However, this obviously did not come up with a positive answer, so since this is the first member to define the law as such and lay its foundations, then it is of course perfectly natural to talk about it a little longer and to repeat the arguments several times. I don't understand the anxiety of fellow Members of Government. You will pass this law. There's no doubt about it. You have a majority, or at least I hope you have a majority, or you hope to have a majority. In any case, that majority exists in some way and there's no reason to wait a day, two to hear other arguments, and then vote as you wish. In parliamentary practice, this is often said and then usually the MPs of the authorities feel that the opposition is talking if they are convinced that their bill is very good and, of course, they wait for it to pass as soon as possible for the debate, for the law to be passed and for such a phenomenally good law to be implemented as soon as possible and for it to bring the general good. When someone is nervous about the bill that they claim to be a civil progress in education, then it's something suspicious, and there's probably a conclusion that there's not a lot of good things, but that it's a law that, as I said in the principle debate, is ordered from above and from the minister and others in the ministry and what, poor, they're going to have to write something on the subject. This is also the wording of the reasons for the refusal of amendments to Article 1 which is thus a very inspiring text with almost a little more than two pages of the text. A lot of text, a lot of phrases and basically nothing that would be useful for science. I agree completely with your assessment, Mr. Minister, and I said that in principle debate, that the situation in education is bad, especially in high school, and that is what we fully agree on. The cure for this is not the introduction of a new "shuvarica", a new education in high school, as some Stipe Shuvar introduced about thirty and a few years ago. This entire school reform is known for being initiated from Croatia in the former Yugoslavia, and it has never been implemented in Croatia, but only the Serbs have caught it as a brilliant solution to all our problems, and as we remember it, it has not made any progress in employment or in the education of employees, or in anything that should represent a way out of the situation in which the state was then. What's the status today? The situation is that we have a large number of unemployed regardless of the manipulations of statistics, numbers and all these things, that people can't, who still have some serious education for any serious job to find that job in the country and then flee from Serbia, and that in this something opening factories and employment in the last few years, they're a wave of jobs for people who don't need any education. Look at Leoni, look at all these other big companies. It's a clumping wire, it's something you can learn. I don't underestimate these people. Of course, they have to do it because they don't have anything else and it's not an insult to them. It's an assessment of the situation in our country. You have a lot of people who have finished colleges at serious institutions, state or private, who don't have to present themselves as forgers of their diplomas or don't give God a doctorate, and they have to work for those simplest, simplest machines, on those boards where the wires intersect and cremate into some devices. That's not good. The mass of people leaving the country, young, educated because you're driving them through such an average policy, below average, and they see they have no way of waiting for their better future in this country and then they have to get out of here. It can be changed by reforming education, of course, and it is necessary. There is also a need for a change in high school education. The first step towards this is compulsory secondary education, meaning the obligation of secondary school. What does that bring? Already now, the fullness of high schools is about 90 percent, and those who finish primary school are enrolled in high school. The more reason to raise it to 100%, but not to enroll such high schools as they are most now, rather than to reform those high schools. I am surprised, since this coalition has been in power since 2012, if I remember correctly, so it calls for the Education Strategy, the development of education in Serbia by 2020, which was adopted on 25 October 2012. What were you waiting for for for five years? It's not like there's not enough in the ministry, I'm not talking to politicians, educated people, experienced people, who knew that they were making a proposal under that strategy. I'm sure there is. Why didn't they do it? Probably because it wasn't a priority. Probably because it wasn't the thought of someone calling themselves the president of Serbia at the time. But that's no reason for us to get to this bad bill now overnight, across our knees. There are better solutions. It is said in the explanation that the amendment which deletes Article 1 and the whole of the law is rejected, because the strategy requires direct inclusion of the employer and creation, etc. In 2012. What was not done 13, 14, 15, 16 but today? So that argument is like saying that today the amendment to Article 1 is rejected because it's cloudy or sunny. There's no argument. Furthermore, in the general text, the strategy also envisions the introduction of employers. That's what you said in the first paragraph that the proposed employers' participation, and then in the second you say the employer's participation is foreseen. I don't know which, whether the accent is important or not, but anyway, it's a text that doesn't have any essential content. The introduction of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and the Union of Employers, so that's genius. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, with respect for the people who do their work there in a serious way, but in the peaks of the Serbian-Yugoslavia Chamber of Commerce, from, if you will, 1945 to here, and I don't know if there was any before, commercial chambers are, in fact, a dump of failed political personnel, with maybe five, six exceptions in 50 and a few years. Today, as president of the Chamber of Commerce, as far as I'm concerned, we have a man who's never done anything. As such, he could be a self-called president of the state, since we have a case that man has also done nothing, perhaps the Prime Minister, perhaps a minister of something, but to be in the position of the president of the Chamber of Commerce someone who has never done anything in the economy, it is nonsensic couple excellencies. The mass of other people who have been brought there is the same because there are high wages, which is a little work and is for some dumps, or leaving some functions in a quiet age, and for some perhaps preparing for some better functions. What does the Chamber of Commerce have to do with the mandatory association of employers with what will be the curriculum and programme in secondary schools? How can you do that at the level of the entire state? How can you leave it to employers who today are, tomorrow are not, to determine what our children are going to learn? For example, those schools last three years. We have a situation that subsidies have been given to open up some cable-climbing plant and then a wire-clap specialist is introduced, until the grant contract expires, and then he picks up his boards and his wires and pliers and goes to Moldova. So what if we have 50, 100 specialists in that place with a high-school wire-climbing school? I was talking a little while ago, I heard on some TV show last night an unusual color that welders are a big problem again, no welders. That's not true, I told you, today in Serbia you're looking for 28, so it can be solved however you want in one day, just that you want to solve something. So let's get rid of those mum jumbo, hocus focus solutions – I heard something, told me a man when I followed him to the bedroom or after dinner in a restaurant, I quote it all, but let's do something serious. He writes here as a further explanation for the refusal of amendments that the lack of dual education led to the fact that young people were put in a position of cheap labour. Who, you or who or the state or who? If so, if young radicals have ever solved it in a better way, then let's apply that better way, but that "shuvaral" doesn't seem to be a better way. What resulted from the collapse of the Serbian economy was in the 1990s and madness politically and personally and collectively then, which led to the destruction of the economy in the technological sense above all, that the people who led the state had no idea what was going on around, that the systemic changes in the world were such that some of our safe markets, as they were unsettled, such as the Soviet Union, as China was undeveloped, were, in the meantime, while we were conquering and winning in all the wars in the 1990s, but what one said – a little morgen, that they all made so much progress that we became both technological and organisational and financial, that I did not speak and politically lagging in relation to it. That's why the company's mass collapsed in the '90s, and that failure was obvious, of course, when the curtain was raised and the opera show started and when the privatisation process began, where exactly what was worth it, what was not worth. Were there any robbery cases of privatisation? Of course not 24, 224, but what about them, why are you hiding them? The privatisation system is good, but it also led us to see that we are technologically out of the world. We've been exporting high-tech technology to China in the '90s, now we're importing everything alive from China. Our high-tech technology doesn't exist. This is where computers used to be made in this country, now you can't make an electrician. There used to be an auto-industry that had a little bit of a home base, now there's no home base. So, don't play with your wits, we've got big problems. I already said in the principle debate, I am not glad that Serbia is in trouble, no matter what I am an opposition. It's just a sick man can be happy when something bad is better for him. No, on the contrary, I live here with all of you, my children are growing up here, they're gonna stay here, they're not the only ones, and we all need to be aware that our political differences can't leave a negative impact on the development of this country. This issue of dual education is not an ideological thing, it is not political, it is not Russia Europe, it is not social property, state property, private property. This is a question of the essence of the survival of future generations. Don't make them become specialists for something they won't be able to do tomorrow. The development of technology is such that if you learn anything today, be sure that if you don't study further, then for life education, you won't be able to work at your workplace at the same firm for five years. It says here in one place that technology development is, says – learning through work is not for students free of manual tasks, but for programming, designing and handling smart machines that are part of the modern modern manufacturing process. I'd like to know who the author of this sentence is, he doesn't know what smart machines are. Smart machines are machines that don't control people who have software, or at least don't run people with high school. They can run engineers, design them, but smart machines are smart because they don't need human labour. That's the point. So whoever wrote this, I feel sorry for him because he had to and got the assignment to write something that he didn't have much knowledge about. Therefore, be serious, withdraw this law and let's look together for a better solution for reforming high school.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23739	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23740	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 106 and Article 107. Says Shakespeare - this is dignity and should be discussed on the subject of the agenda. Since the debate is in particular, we've heard about everything here except the amendment. I respect your tolerance, but you've allowed here to be offended by the dignity of the National Assembly by the fact that a man's shared diagnosis along the way, as he spoke of some false diplomats, as far as I know, Article One doesn't cover it at all. The fake diplomats are told by the man who bought it in Bitola High School. It's a typical violation of dignity. A fake diploma was told by a man who bought a higher trade in Nis, when he became a minister. And he says he finished the Higher Economic in Belgrade. If it is not an insult to the dignity of the National Assembly, then let him show his degree in the higher school. A man who, in my opinion, graduated from an unorthodox education is talking about directional education and Shuvar. We who went to school at the time know that it was an interruption if we call it dual education, that the craftsmen and school students in the economy, instead of three years, went for a year, and he claims to be a dual education Shuvar. It's a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly. Because Shuvar broke up this kind of thing that we can call dual education, but someone who didn't go to school, who says they didn't do anything, rudely insults the dignity of the National Assembly, and let him tell me where the firm he worked, I'll take out my workbook, he can take out his own, and, as far as I know, he was working on the street, gambling, card and matches, smuggling pumpkins.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23741	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. We have one reply request and one application per amendment. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23742	Thank you very much. Of course it doesn't matter about Shuvar's reform, not even close. What the MP said the last thing he said, Marian Risticevic, is true. Whoever was born in the 1960s and went to Shuvar's schools, there are plenty in the state, they know well that the first phase was – they all went to the same program. Everyone, and then that master who was supposed to go studied Latin and everything else in the first two classes and only went to theory for a year, they didn't even have practice. And then we started destroying this model of ours, and great factories when they were exported, I know, I personally worked in Rakovica and the base, they had great profiles, they took the best masters. So we've lost that resource of excellent masters so they can work in the car industry. So that discontinuity was. Well, it's a good thing someone noticed from the MPs, here in an explanation, the strategy wasn't opportunized by this story. On page 104 and 112, who's interested in looking. A study of the concept of dual when we looked at employers' interests, about 1800 employers in Serbia, which was domestic, which was said by foreign people to have the intention of introducing some of the dual models. So far, 205 companies are licensed. They've met all the conditions and they're taking it one step at a time. We are talking about the level of education that includes 7-8%, and the total secondary education includes 25% of high school, 67% of high school. For information, Serbia's citizens are being reformed, both high school programmes and secondary school programmes, and has been searching twice for their place through three and four stages. Wires and training, when we talk about simple jobs, it's not educated through dual, it's a course. It's coming down in two months. It's an informal education. Somewhere that's really important to those citizens. Who doesn't know, can visit them, I did. When we talk about unions, all the time, with all the laws we came here with, we've been taking part in a bar for days, who wants to say otherwise, it's on his honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23743	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophet of Radeth, has the right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23744	The replica of Mr. Zoran Zivkovic's presentation, which caused nothing in the course of his stance on the amendment, I suppose, of the whole law, mentioned young radicals. I am obliged as an authorised representative to, above all, say to the public that we do not share in the SRS in youth and old, that we do not have any youth organisations, that we do not have any female networks, that we do not have any other organisation, that we are all just Serbian radicals with the same rights and obligations. What Mr. Zivkovic meant was, I really have no intention of thinking too much, but I'm saying I was under obligation for the public to present this information. If he meant some who may have once been members of the SRS, they had nothing to do with the SRS. You know, like everything in life, if it were good, there wouldn't be an ex. Mr. Zivkovic knows this by himself, by his leaving the party and forming another, which is, of course, his problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23745	Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. On what do you report to the replica? (Zoran Zivkovic: I am mentioned, the Verse of Radeta. To the Belief of Radetti? No, Radeta only responded to the reference to the SRS It's not about whether or not the chairman is allowed to do anything, you mentioned her, Mrs. Radeta replied, she had the right to a replica. [[Zoran Zivkovic: Now you must not give anyone the replica, nor give it to her.]] She didn't say anything offensive about you. [[Zoran Zivkovic: I have the right to its replica, too, it says in the Rules of Procedure.]] You really don't have a right. Let's move on, the word has a People's MP, Branka Stamenkovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23746	Thank you, please, if you can time authorized to count me in. So, just before, Col. Orlic resented that during the debate in detail on the law on dual education, I spoke about our basic school education, so he said he didn't understand it, and I feel the need to explain it to him. Fortunately, this is clear to the Assembly Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives who adopted this amendment as an amendment in accordance with the Constitution, as well as an explanation given in addition to this amendment, which practically in the debate as I defend the amendment I assure. To be perfectly clear, I will read a part of that reasoning that has passed the entire congregation procedure. "The educational system of the Republic of Serbia does not need dual education, but the root reform of pre-school, primary and secondary education according to the reputation of the Finnish model." In other words, preschool education and education must be available to all and fully funded from the Republic of Serbia's budget, without any monetary participation of parents. All following the costs of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education, including the cost of getting toys, textbooks, school supplies, transportation and feeding students, must also be fully covered by the Republic of Serbia's budget, and secondary education must become mandatory. Only after meeting these basic conditions will Serbia's education system become fair and truly give equal chances for the success of every child, regardless of their parents' financial strength. In other words, Kolo Orlic, we have an elementary and preschool education that is bad. Because they're bad we have bad results at the end of primary school. Because of what we've got, we're introducing doubles now, because we don't know what we're going to do with these kids. If we had good results at the end of elementary school, we wouldn't need dual education. But since it isn't, we have to ask ourselves, and why isn't it? What is it that every serious person, anyone who goes deeper into analysis, has to go into analysis -- what's wrong, what are the problems why our primary school education is wrong, which is why our results are bad? There is a link between the mention of primary and dual education and, as you can see, it has been recognised by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, and I will continue to insist on my discussion following the following amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23747	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. Right on the line, Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23748	So, I have at least two grounds to express my gratitude on my part. First, because we got these, freely speaking, free two minutes to explain some more things. Second, for making sure those who caused the replica to come and have some fun. First on the subject, this last one, entertained, because ladies and gentlemen today, I must admit, I learned a lot. I have learned that the interpretation of the amendments goes through congregation procedures and that it is being considered by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Well, I have to admit, I didn't know that until now. I was convinced that this committee was merely analysing whether the proposal was in accordance with the Constitution, the legal system, whether the amendment, and not any explanation, wherever anyone could, however they wanted to write poetry as we see and do, was going through any kind of checks in a procedural sense. So this was very nice to relax a little for the start of this, obviously, very long day. Thanks for that. As for the relationship on the first or second basis, thank you and for confirming its kind, that whoever gave this explanation and proposed such amendments with that explanation, has no idea what to say on the subject of this law. Then that's why he talks, about preschool, about elementary school and all the other forms and levels of education, except for what he needs to talk about. But not to be just fun and relaxation for us, than those who obviously won't know better today than what they've done, to take advantage of these additional thirty seconds to say to those who need further clarification now, that in the answer, otherwise with the excellent response we received from the ministry, this strategy is mentioned, precisely because some in their own, phenomenal explanations of the amendments have also been called upon to this strategy. To draw attention to them, that besides calling on that strategy, which is nice and commendable, it's not bad for them to read it. If they had read it and understood it coming, they would have seen that this argument was really in place, that their proposals were not in line with the strategy, and this bill, along with everything else, was quite the thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23749	Thank you. Col. Pavlovic's injury to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23750	Dear Chairman, you have allowed the previous speaker to harm article 107 and violate the dignity of the Assembly. It is not he who needs all the MPs here, who have put their amendments, that gives the recipe to defend the amendments and whether we have read it or not read the strategy. So he's not the High Representative here who needs to tell all the other MPs how to behave. I find that inadmissible. We're told that we don't have to defend, in previous statements, that we don't have to defend all the laws, attack all the laws. I also think they don't have to defend all the laws, even those they'll regret. Please, don't let anyone insult the other MPs, bring us back to preschool age. We've finished all the schools neatly and here we'll get to preschool education, so if he wants to, he has a real desire to bring us all back here to preschool age, the way he talks to us, let him do it when we discuss the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23751	Thank you. I believe I did not violate the Rules of Procedure and you will agree, Mr Vladimir Orlic has the right, as all MPs do to express their views and their political stance. That's your perception, I respect that. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Yes) Thank you. The word is Branka Stamenkovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23752	Thank you very much. I thank my colleague Orlic, because as a perfectly decent person, I always look to appoint a colleague to whom I address, while my colleague always speaks in code. I just want to thank you for the lesson he had on how to write the amendment and whether the arguments should match or not, some rules. Now, I would just ask you, that all the same things you taught me, teach the chairman of the Education Committee, which you were a member of last night, which is a certain amount of amendments to the parliamentary group enough was instructed by the ruling majority MPs to vote to be rejected as non-compliant amendments, precisely because they did not like the reasoning and called on Article 162(1), paragraph 1, indent 4 of the Rules of Procedure in which it is written. Please agree with yourself whether the explanation in the amendment should go through the assembly procedure or not, is it not possible to reject the amendment once because of this argument, and another time to say that it does not matter whether the amendment is rejected or not. Therefore, I must point out that this reminds me terribly of the way the rules have been interpreted in this House since I entered it a year and a half ago, in June of last year. If it suits you like this, if it suits you like that. Anyway, you can see from your colleague Zukorlic who made a mistake in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23753	Thank you. Vladimir Orlic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23754	That's right. Once again, thank you for the opportunity to hear from us a little bit more about the return of attention because we are trying to teach each other something more here, to help each other. We've talked about this before. It's good to help a colleague. It's not bad. It's a shame, though, that it's so chronically necessary that we do it, but my God. With all the good will on our part, from all these great lessons, sometimes it seems to me that we're painting for nothing, but good. We're going to keep trying, because it's not bad for God's sake, to use this in the most useful way possible, because we've had some more questions and additional concerns. As for the existence of three-year programs, we have already explained that. As for the value of this involvement of a disciple who, when adopted and adopted under this law, will be adopted, do not worry about it at all and the amount of compensation he will make. Just one thing to explain to us those who are terribly opposed, does that mean, from their point of view, that it's better to be free, that it's better that that fee doesn't exist? If that's what they really think, feel free to say so. It's no shame to say what you really think, just not to us, but to the people who follow this, since we've already found that they're against knowing more, since we've already found that they're against better mastering the material, getting better competences, just let them say whether it's free or with some compensation. That should explain to the citizens who are watching this. As for the devastation issue of the 1990s, it really happened. Just two things to ask. First, not to be pointed out by those who are precisely for people who are the most catastrophic thing that has happened to the former country, who are working with it today and those people are working together, friendly and partnered. I know of at least one institute, I think it's called Ifimes, where these people cooperate with each other. Another thing to ask, that those who are personally agreed on an even worse devastation than those that took place in the 1990s, after the 2000s where they honor us with the question of the existence of a mirror in certain apartments is more than important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23755	Time, thank you. We're going with the next amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23756	The Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the DS party of the former regime should have passed a law on dual education 14 years ago, and has not, and has brought the schooling of the Republic of Serbia to the lowest possible extent in the history of education and pedagogical ideas, and the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, has initiated the adoption of this dual education law, which represents the first-class educational step of the SNS and the Ministry of Education and its minister, Mladen Sarcevic, in the last 15 years, for saving time from reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23757	Thank you. Replica, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23758	Thank you, Chairman. So, the first thing, when we mention the reform of education 14 years ago, then we should respectfully talk to people like Professor Gaša Knezevic, who was minister of education in the government of Zoran Djindjic. Also, when it comes to Serbia's Turajlic, who was then in the government of the Republic of Serbia an assistant and many other professors from Belgrade University, later Tinde Kovac, who also contributed to a largely reform of education and in some way tried to accommodate the whole scene of the 1990s, which Mr Atlagic together with Vojislav Seselj led to an absolute mockery, when teachers were expelled from the university, when they were tried, when many journalists feared for their lives, and many of those lives, unfortunately, and lost. So during that period, the government of Zoran Djindjic was correcting all the mistakes that the former, present or some other radicals made together in our society during the 1990s. What's also one of the great pains of today's regime is that they can't get rid of the ballast of the 1990s. The "Bulevar Ratko Mladic" remains at the heart of the Serbian Progressive Party's policy. All the values were transferred from one party to another, all the things they stood for during the 1990s, "a hundred for one", and not to mention further, remained in the culture of expression and behaviour and today's MPs, unfortunately, the ruling majority. I think it is absolutely impeccable for the late Professor Gaš Knezevic to compare with such experts as Dr Atlagic, who advocated that young people go to the front and lose their lives for his failed ideas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23759	Thank you. The Faith of Radet, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23760	The truth is, we also talked about it in principle, that the solar system in Serbia started with Gaš Knezevic. To expect and ask the People's Messengers to mention this name with some respect, it is indeed inappropriate. I don't really understand why a colleague who used to speak and in what context he even mentioned Professor Vojislav Seselj, who was a regular professor. The University of Belgrade Law Faculty, which Gašo Knezevic, without any decision by the university and university authorities, literally threw out of the Faculty of Law. On this topic is led and a certain judicial dispute and exists in the books of Dr Vojislav Seselj all recorded. I'm a personal witness, when I went to Gaša Knezevic's office to look for this document that he said he existed in public, he was so drunk, he couldn't get out of the hallway, but he was some associate, I remembered, Rade's name was, so he said, "Come on, Rade, bring it to me." So there's no need to talk about a man like that with respect, no purpose. But remember Gaša Knezevic as someone who publicly said that an absolute denunciation should be introduced into the education system, that nothing Serbian should exist in our textbooks, or in the entire educational education system, should be spoken of, and we should remember that, so that none of the following and current ministers would take the steps that Gašo Knezevic and Zoran Djindjic had taken.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23761	Thank you. Right on the line, Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23762	Two remarks, as it concerns directly the Serbian Progressive Party and another, before we go on the topic. It is sad and pathetic that he gives himself the right to comment on a man like the MP of Atlagic, someone who is neither down to his knees. For what? Because Marko Atlagic didn't hesitate to defend his people when it was difficult for him? Is that what this is about? Is that someone's fault? That someone, for the record, is not up to that kind of thinking, is not up to that kind of commitment for anyone but himself. Up to the bone, selfish people are unable to act that way. Marko Atlagic is completely different and much better than the one who gave himself the right to take him in his mouth for a moment. What I wanted to mention is the environment from which someone comes and those stories about the 1990s. Just because he doesn't know that his leaders used to cross the front lines, that his leaders used to have their paramilitary formations, that's his problem. There are those of us who know it, there are those of us who can't take it seriously, as we never really understand it when it says anything. But about culture, that man simply doesn't know whether to smile or to worry. About the culture of us to ask a representative of a parliamentary group whose MPs are in this hall, both in the past convocation and in this conference, the prostate swearings, which were recorded by the technique of the mother of the presidents of the Assembly, whose lists are those who, I'm sorry, but the terms such as prostitution used for women working in this hall, both for the president of the Assembly and for fellow Members of Parliament? To be told of culture by those whose presidential candidate brings to the rally of a drunken man who swears at the microphone of the people who came to him there, whose vice president in Nis if one single curse in Serbian missed that he didn't say it then, I think he just did it by accident? Those who do not know who Nadezhda Petrovic, or who Milutin Milankovic, are asking us for culture, that is more than funny. There's a new museum, you visit it, and you check out who these people are.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23763	Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. ) You do not have the right to reply, but it is only responsible for your speech. I really don't want this to turn into a debate about paramilitary formations or the boulevard of anyone. Marko Atlagic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23764	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I cannot believe it, but to say that I am also shocked by the statements of the previous speaker who gave me criticism for the 1990s. For his information, I am happy and proud to have then defended my people in the Croatian Parliament. All those speeches of mine are available to the public. It proves that me and the previous speaker have completely different moral values. I do not belong, and neither does the Serbian Progressive Party, to the values of the educational system of the previous speaker who kicked Ivan Goran Kovacic's listener, the tenth singing. We don't belong to those values, we have other values. We love our country and we fight for it. Dear Vice President, we do not belong to the values of the third grade of primary school in the field of listening to music that have been cast out by the march on Drin. And, to be clear, my greatest two virtues in life are, not ten books written and 200 scientific papers, from education and education 50, not only in our own, but also in foreign magazines, but two things. First, for defending my country and people. Second, for defending my president in The Hague, whom the previous speaker had sent to The Hague and for burning this assembly, and I was shutting it down. That's two different values and we'll never agree to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23765	Dragan Vesovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23766	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sure you didn't see me before, because I know you'd give me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23767	No, I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23768	I know. Please, Article 106. – The speaker can only talk about the agenda point. And Mr. Bozovic, and Mr. Orlic, and Mr. Atlagic, really talk about things, and I'm trying to figure out what this has to do with the agenda. I cannot understand these conflicts between the "yellow company", the former authorities and the current authorities, and the praise of Mr. Atlagic, whom we have also praised... Here, I invite him, sit with us again, sir, don't be afraid. No, back to the agenda, let's work, we have people who want to work here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23769	Thank you, with one more apology for not seeing you advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're partly right and the debate went beyond what is the subject. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? (No) Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23770	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as proposing this amendment, my goal was to support the government and the ministry, because I think we need dual education at this time. As someone who graduated from school in 1972-1976, in addition to the other amendments, I will make an obvious difference between the education that existed, the education that did not exist and what we want to do again and again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23771	Thank you. Nenad Konstantinovic called. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23772	I reported on the amendment submitted by Marijan Risticevic and Marko Atlagic. They've brilliantly thought of adding a decimal between words in a sentence and that's an amendment. So you abuse both the Rules of Procedure and the time and money of the citizens of Serbia by giving meaningless amendments, but it is used to explain through this addition of the score that Gassa Knezevic did not work and that he ruined the schooling in Serbia. The only good that was done at the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education, was what was done by 2004, when the minister was Gasa Knezevic, when he worked on it both Refik Secibovic and Serbia's Turajlic. You forget you've been in power since 2012 and you've done nothing for five years. Until these proposals, Minister Sarčević did nothing, and the minister before Sarcervic was a SNS Verbic, and before him was Zarko Obradovic from the SPS, so Tomislav Jovanovic was also from the SPS, so there were various Colics, who removed Darwin's theory from the DSS, etc. So there's nothing to do with this education that doesn't have to do with what Gassa Knezevic was doing. Everything he did was ruined 15 years after that. You're referring to something from 2003. What about you? You know you've been in power for five years. Why haven't you changed your educational profiles in five years? Why didn't you change high school education in five years? And now you're going to change everything by dual education, where children of 15 will work 30 percent less than the minimum. That's the essence of this law. You're all trying to mask through a story, and the bottom line is -- big capital needs cheap labour, and people are going to work for 15% of the minimum. That's the essence of this law. Who are we talking about? So is that for our kids? So are our kids supposed to finish high school? Are your children, your MPs, willing to finish high school, finish college, earn better tomorrow, and not make as much money as they do in China and in some other countries you call on, Russia and others? So, we want Serbia to be a country of knowledge and that what people do is well paid, not limit them to 15 years of age that they can't move on. Is that what you're suggesting?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23773	Thank you. The People's MP Marijan Risticevic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23774	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, they are far from knowledge. They may have a calling, but calling and knowledge aren't the same. Even knowing where you used only your memory isn't some knowledge, unless it's applicable. The education is told by those who fired 235 thousand people from production. I'm not talking about a total of 400,000 people. Since they sold the entire economy to privatization, predatory, predatory, for six billion and 700 million, it is obvious that workers were not needed. In Belgrade, when I worked at IMT, a colleague who spoke before me, but when they joked, there were over 200,000 people in the production in Belgrade. There's 20 grand after them. If it weren't for the PKK and it wasn't for the Kolubara, that 20,000 would not be in Belgrade's surrounding territory. So, from 200 grand to 20 grand. What did Gashi Knezevic and they need dual education? What economy? For the one they sold, which no longer existed, they didn't need education. Then all they did was call, college, high school. For example, colleges for management, we have a manager of 200, 300 grand. Then they're not useful here or abroad. When they go abroad, they wash dishes, etc. The result of their education is relatively identical to what they had in the economy. That kind of pest Serbia did not have in the economy, nor will it have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23775	Thank you. After the amendment, Goran Kovacevic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23776	Mr. Minister, you're the Minister of Education, and we're constantly listening here to the replacement of two thesis, where we're discussing education, and we're talking about the labour market. The labour market is told by those who mutilated the labour market in 2012 by bringing us to an unemployment rate of over 25%. But the essence of all theories is in one fact, in exchange for the labour market and education. The Serbian Parliament here is returning to a system that was overcome in 1961, because in 1961 we talked about the workforce that we from the state are going to command, manage and decide. In 1961, during communism, the Communist Party of Yugoslavia emerged from a variant of socialist governance and allowed foreign investments to start investing in 1967. What does this have to do with anything? We need to change the system and realize that the state, the Ministry of Education, is only one segment on the labour market. The labour market is the same as the market for products and services where free competition exists. If we want to shut down employers, if we want to shut down the chamber, so how do we think we operate in the modern world? How do we feel about criticizing China, Russia, countries that currently have a terrible growth in social gross products without talking about Germany, where dual education is also a factor in the labour market? It's just that you have a complicated system where everything that's different, which changes, which gives results, and these results, first and foremost, are seen in education at the social gross product in the unemployment rate, does not want to be accepted. This is simple math. If this law is good, we will have a reduction in the number of unemployed in generations to come. If this law isn't bad, we'll definitely have bad results like that. In the last three years, all the laws we've passed, and we've been hearing similar explanations that those who told us in 2000 about a liberal, free market today are returning to the entire state economy. Today, we have results that have been the result of both these and similar laws that we have passed since 2015. So, Mr. Minister, go ahead, dual education is just one part of the general education system and that we change, because when we don't change, when we stick around, when we agree to old solutions, our social gross product, ultimately, doesn't grow fast enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23777	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. National MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjušević, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić proposed amendments to each amendment. 1, 7, 8, 13, 21, 22, 23, 25 and 26. Does anyone want a word? The word is Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23778	Dear Mr. Chairman, I will have to, on behalf of the MP group of the Serbian Movement of Dveri, on behalf of the few of us left, risking that I may not be punished, telling the same story a few times. So it is an amendment to the pre-numbered members and there is the term "other legal representative" – a term that we have already used in past laws when we talked about the set of laws from the education. And then I asked the minister and associates to explain it to me. Nor did they explain it to me then, and what I got today in the explanation, I don't really know who wrote that explanation, it made me even more confused. It says – the amendment cannot be accepted because the term "other legal representative" means all persons who, in accordance with the law, can represent interests etc. I repeat, it involves all faces. Then why did you separate your parents? Why does he say – the parent is the second representative? Isn't a parent another person? Is a parent more privileged than any other legal person? We're talking about the fact that it was in the old law, in family laws, parent and guardian terms, and since we've introduced some words into the laws we've already passed, some coins, some concepts that are against the constitution when we talk about gender equality, sexual orientation, please, where it says it in the Constitution. This and such members develop a legitimate fear in people who vote for the Serbian Movement of the Dvora, that in one day through other legal deputies you will predict same-sex "parents", because they cannot be parents, that you will not be guardians, nor know what they will be. And that's why we say that the old term comes back, and that's why we've been looking very carefully for that term in all the numbered members. Of course, the explanation is completely illogical, and in this way we get the impression that something is wrong, whether it involves a parent or not, please, who wrote this, here's me reading your explanation. Either you're doing it unseriously or you think we're going to stop pointing to what's called the march LGBTI, already added I, the person through the education system, through a place where it never should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23779	Thank you, colleague Vesovic. According to the amendment, sonja Vlahovic is a national MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23780	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm reporting for the amendment. Collaterals submit the same amendments, amendments to introduce a legal representative instead of a guardian, in fact to remain a guardian. If they had listened to the minister when it was the draft law on the basis of the education and education system, they would not have submitted such amendments. Because these amendments probably didn't listen, that's what Mr. Charceviche is deaf to his ears, blind to his eyes, about. Your Honor, you said at that time that the term was a legal representative of the idea of a lawyer, even a judge from the Cassation Court, so in case a divorce occurs in the family, one parent should be a legal representative and the other not. Simply, for the sake of the interest of child protection, instead of the term ‘parent’, a ‘legal representative’ is introduced. Simple and simple. Amendment applicants explained that they respect the Constitution, cultivate traditional and family values, care and protect children, fight for their rights, and also insult their verbal and physical mothers, sisters, neighbors, aunts daily. Today's attack on our President Maja Gojkovic is a confirmation of such a physical attack. I'm ordering as a woman, a messenger, that we're not afraid. The very evidence is that our president, Maja Gojkovic, defends herself against the physical attack of three Dvori MPs. Thanks, buddy. As a woman of Parliament, I say we are not afraid and sit with dignity in this, and we are not afraid and we are not going anywhere to run, to sit with dignity and pride in these parliamentary benches of ours, with dignity and pride in the halls of our National Assembly, to walk both the cities and villages of our beautiful Serbia, because we are the SNS ambassadors headed by Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23781	Thank you, right on the line Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23782	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, for the first time in the congregation, I got the right to replicate and I really thank you for doing this. I'm not deaf, I'm not blind, though I wear glasses, but about these abilities physically, they can judge people who are competent, so from a medical profession, which, look, by the way, I belong to. Yes, I am not an MP for the SNS, I am an MP for the Serbian Movement of the Dvora and no neighbour and no woman is harassed, and I feel the same way as you from the SNS, and I feel the MP and walk freely in the halls. I never mentioned anyone first, I never insulted anyone, and I'll stay on it. I won't be the first. But I don't see any reason why anything that doesn't have anything to do with this story is getting into the story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23783	Thank you. By amendment, MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23784	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's high time we resolved the dilemma of the use of the terms legal representative and the terms guardian. Therefore, the term legal representative implies all persons who can represent the interests of children, i.e. the interests of minors. The term legal counsel is wider than the term guardian. The term legal representative covers parents, as representatives of their underage children, includes guardians who, with the authority of the custody authorities, also represented underage children or adults who were deprived of their business skills, but the term of the legal representative also includes company representatives. So why would we change this broader term with a narrow term as a guardian, if there is already a legal term to be used in some laws. Also, if you want, we can talk about the definition of a legal representative and guardian who, if not the same, is very similar. So it's a business capable person who protects the rights of another person's interest. This amendment doesn't make any sense, and I don't think this amendment should be accepted, but this address will end up as my colleague Vlahovic in the spirit of today's day. I am now talking to my colleagues, and I also say that there is no point in fearing one of the applicants of the Bosko Obradovic amendment, I am not afraid of him as a woman because I can only pity men who draw their strength from violence against the gentler sex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23785	Thank you. By amendment, Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23786	Thank you, Chairman. At first, I would like to say immediately that this amendment is rejected, but legally speaking, we can discuss this amendment legally, but from a moral point of view, taking into account everything that has happened today and in recent weeks and months, the question is whether it is necessary today to discuss the amendment of these and such applicants. But, come on, my God, here we are, where we are, say, born, must rock. First of all, because of the public of Serbia behind this amendment, there is a hypocritical concern for the family, hypocritical concern about parenting, but remember that there is also a population coming in, don't forget that this comes from people who physically repeatedly in the past year against Serbian mothers, Serbian women, Serb sisters, and this is in fact the basic reason for the submission of this amendment, their political pulsism and hypocritical concern for the Serbian family. The second goal of all of this is certainly to derrogate this law in the education system, the possibility that finally Serbian children start doing something after school. First of all, I'd like to say that not everyone in this country can be an official of the state after World War II. Not everyone can work in a public institution, in a library. Everyone's father can't be a building inspector in Chačka, so he can live on it. His brother can't be employed by the city administration. Not everyone can have an employee in a public institution, someone in this country has to work, to attract, to produce. It's a good thing there's finally one law in front of us. By adopting these and similar amendments, we would derivate the law, and we simply won't allow, the Honorable Minister, that scenario, it will certainly be adopted regardless of what these reasons that are clear to me, especially one remains striking. An even bigger motive gives us arguments as to why we should accept the amendments. We've heard that we need to keep quiet for two days, keep quiet about the insults, the humiliations, that they're physically attacking us. Well, let me tell you, we won't be silent even though Zoran Zivkovic asked us to, for two days we won't be silent. Serbia will not be silent about the vineyard in Frusko Gora, nor will it be silent about the robbery privatisations. Serbia won't shut up... .
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23787	My colleague, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23788	Well, here, let me really say, if you noticed we were asked to keep our mouths shut. I must tell you we will not do this, because here is the president of the state, you see, today is clearly and loudly defending Serbia's interests, with any talker in any place we want to be these policies and we will clearly and loudly defend this law in the Assembly, as the SNS summit at the head of Serbia does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23789	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Marinika Tepic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23790	I'm advertising Article 107. I think you hurt him. Perhaps you are not so sensitive to the pronunciation of certain syntagms that they have, perhaps subconsciously much more weight than it seems in the first wave, but I have indeed been exposed on several occasions to the potential of Serbian mothers, Serbian children, made me feel hurt in accordance with what is stated in Rule 107 of this Rules of Procedure and I do not see why we are recalculating the blood cells of mothers and numerous blood cells of children? Are non-Serbs who are mothers less valuable? Are non-Serbian children less valuable in the Republic of Serbia? Is that a discourse that's normal? Since I see how sensitive MPs are most of them to other syntagms and words, I would ask for greater attention to be taken into account when these definitions are used. I think it is inadmissible in this home and that we who are not Serbs, and our country is the Republic of Serbia, we should not listen to these things, that our children who are from mixed marriages or from marriages that do not have one of the parents that the Serbs were Serbian, but are citizens of this country should not be indirectly called in this way. Please don't do this. We know how this kind of discourse led politics quietly, and after growing weight to bullets and bombs, I ask you as chairman, especially taking care of the party you come from, to take care of the discourse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23791	Thank you. Absolutely, what you just said has nothing to do with what's going on in the National Assembly. Everyone has the right to say what they want. No colleague has offended anyone, not to be discriminated against according to someone's belongings, so ethically or professionally. Please don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. - Yes, you do. Thank you very much. The word is Alexander Markovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23792	I thank the chairman. A 107 member has been injured that regulates the issue of dignity of the National Assembly, but the dignity of the largest number of people living in Serbia has been injured, and it is the Serbian people. I have to admit, I'm a little confused, because I didn't realize whether the previous speaker misread the words of her colleagues from the Dvora, and did she refer to it as a matter of physical attacks by representatives of the Dvori exclusively against Serbian mothers? Is that what bothers her or is she bothered by Serbian mothers as we understand it? We understand and condemn every attack on every mother, not just the Serbian mother. I also have to note that the previous speaker always minds everything that has prefixes Serbian, so today she is disturbed by Serbian mothers, the SPC bothers her yesterday, the Serbian generals interrupt her, but I ask you to apply the Rules of Procedure in the future and to warn her, in the end of the day, you can always take away two minutes from that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23793	Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] Good afternoon again. We're going back to work. The National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Gordana Komic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic together. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Balša Bozovic. (Marinika Tepic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to harm the Rules of Procedure, nor could I hurt myself, I have just begun the session, colleague Tepic. (Marinika Tepic: You've hurt yourself.) I couldn't just, please. Don't abuse. Here you go, colleague Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23795	Thank you, Chairman. Although counterpart Tepic asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I think she had an advantage over my amendment, so I would ask you to give her a word after the two-minute closure. What is the essence of the amendment of this member of the law, where the new concepts that prescribe this law are determined, what is actually the definition of dual education, what is the employer in terms of this law, what is learning through work, what is the instructor, coordinator, also, learning through work. We have already said that this law is executed according to Serbia's future. Instead of having a chance to listen to the minister about what's really the point of this law, we haven't heard a word about it. We have heard that it is important that in the next two to three years someone learns to do something and be ready for the jobs that are lowest paid in Serbia, to be prevented from continuing their education, to leave the book behind once and for all as a young man, and to spend 80% of his education in a factory and thus introduce children's work that was abolished 150 years ago. In this way, slave labor is returning to Serbia, and has also been abolished hundreds of years behind us. What's important, we haven't heard how and in what way the Ministry of Education, the ruling majority, ultimately the Government of the Republic of Serbia, sees our society for the next 50 years -- do they see them as citizens who are masters of their own destiny or see them as slaves of the head down, who will exclusively serve as the voting machine of the then party in power? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23796	Thank you. Marinika Tepic, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23797	Thank you, Chairman. You just didn't let me point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, justifying yourself that you didn't have time to hurt the Rules of Procedure, because work was continued after the break. You've actually done the injury before, or during the break, and then you haven't given me the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure and I'm going to show you again, when you've moved on, what's this all about. So, you violated a 101st member who defines the conditions for a break, which has become a constant practice for you. When the debate is compounded, you shall set a break and therefore consider that you have excluded the right of MPs to continue the debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So the break can be determined when the work of the current session is interrupted to determine a new one, when there is no quorum, when you need consultations in other cases, where it decidently says – when the National Assembly concludes it. So, the National Assembly did not conclude that you set a break, let alone continue to work on your own initiative, which generally assumes blocking, preventing, ignoring, insulating, sometimes very, very clear and obvious MPs of the opposition to give their right to advertise the Rules of Procedure or to indicate it in replica, because that's why we're here. Don't do this. Although you keep doing it, I ask you most nicely, you have now had a break to freshen up, to recover a little, to rehabilitate and let us do it right. Hold out two minutes of criticism and business, and according to the amendments, and by the replica. Don't give us that little time, which allows us the Rules of Procedure, to deny us. You didn't give me the right to advertise the Rules of Procedure when my colleague Markovic attacked me here to hate everything that has the omens of Serbian...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23798	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23799	You took a break, abused a member of 101 and continued not to give me the right to replicate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23800	Thank you. First, the break shall be determined in accordance with Article 87. Secondly, they all got a chance to speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I can't make an exception for you and give you, Mrs. Tepic, a word when you have no right to do so. No one mentioned you, you had no right to a replica. We've set a break, we've moved on. Let's move on. The word is Alexander Markovic. (Marinika Tepic: I now report to another member. ) Please do not abuse the Rules of Procedure. I can't give you the Rules of Procedure twice. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? (Marinika Tepic: Yes. Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Alexander Markovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23801	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, such a situation as when the amendment was debated on Article 1 of the proposed law. So again, we had an amendment that envisioned the removal of a member, and in an explanation, no argument as to why we would possibly even consider such an option. I wouldn't have answered if I hadn't read the explanation of the amendment itself. The amendment promoter, in his explanation, absolutely completely, says – the result of the introduction of dual education will be schooling children for jobs that do not exist and providing unlimited amounts of extremely cheap labour to selected employers. Fully false and in a very malicious and very irresponsible way placed, but, knowing who it came from, I was not overly surprised. As the argument continues, says the democratic party, therefore, that there is no confusion, I am not calling the DS now, but I am just reading the explanation There's no replica. [[Balsa Bozovic: Yeah, replica.]] So, the Democratic Party, in a people known as the yellow company, will not allow generations of future students to be ruined because of someone's whim? Well, this is a scandal. Such a written explanation, I will repeat, in a very irresponsible and malicious way, is a scandal and I must indeed appeal to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to reconsider the possibilities for such amendments to be rejected. What does this mean? So don't just accuse someone of ruining someone's whim, you who've ruined everything you've touched, not to mention the economy...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23802	Talk to me, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23803	... Not to mention all the other segments. So please, just don't warn anyone that he's ruining something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23804	Thank you. Right on line, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23805	Thank you. Mr Markovic did not understand what the essence of the amendment is to be "expunged" in this case, which was submitted by DS and my colleagues along with me, especially because we do not want to recruit cheap labour, which is what this law offers, and that is the purpose of this law – cheap and unprotected labour. Under number two, we don't want recruiting obedient voters. So we want people who think for themselves. We don't want a country where citizens will bend their heads, who won't have a spine, but, on the contrary, where there will be masters of their fate, where exactly what they want, and not what some leader wants. We do not want citizens who will read "Informer", we do not want to make citizens who will exclusively live on a cultural sign that this government has left to this people for half a decade, and these are "Parms" and so on. So instead of citizens, you create slaves and for this reason we are against this law and that's why we want to delete it. In North Korea, after 1950, the famous leader Kim Il Sung created a new ideology called "kimlsungism". She speaks of the fact that there is no intellectual elite in society that must listen and do what the leader says impeccably. Well, we don't want that. We do not want wolfism in Serbia, but we want citizens who know what they want, who know what they want and who can exercise their constitutional rights guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23806	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23807	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 104 and immediately saying I'm asking for this injury to the vote. Therefore, Article 104 says about the right to replica - it is the discretionary right of the chairman, but provided that offensive expressions are used in the field of exposure, etc., refer to a parliamentary group, or political party whose MP belongs to the parliamentary group. What is an offensive expression to read the explanation of someone’s amendment? So, colleague Markovic was just reading the argument of the party's amendment, whose name I will not mention, and you have allowed a replica that has grown into reading lessons to us by those who have never done anything serious in their lives. So if it wasn't for the builder, there wouldn't be a grab of the house, there wouldn't be a building, there wouldn't be that 350 squares. If it hadn't been for the sages who passed the dual education, there wouldn't have been those expensive watches. How short it is, and that speaks of the replica you allowed, the lack of tailors in Serbia shows that their president had to call a tailor from Turkey to sew his suit. And you've allowed the abuse of replicas, which I'm asking to vote on, on the injury of the Rules of Procedure, to teach us a lesson here about work, morality, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23808	Thank you. The word has Aleksandra Tomic The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. [[Alexander Markovic: I have a replica on direct mention.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23809	Thank you, Chairman. The replica is about a direct mention of the name. I see the previous speaker doesn't know the difference between learning through work and working alone. But what just sticks to the eye is simply mentioning the recruitment of cheap labour, which is insisted on by the previous speaker, and in doing so comes from a party that is directly responsible for all that we have today as a consequence. So, destroyed hundreds and hundreds of companies and businesses, left hundreds of thousands of people out of work in their time, destroyed that same future of young people, whose fate today is lamentated. They honor us today what? Realize programs. Realitative programmes are the product of their authority, the chairman, of their authority. What does SNS have to do with reality programs? What are you people talking about? And those who do not know the difference and do not know who Nadezhda Petrovic is and do not know who Milutin Milankovic is. Do they honor us? Are they those cultural elites? I ask you and ask if you may know what is called this cultural elite whose postulates lie in it – put everything you can in your pockets today, immediately, devastate the budget, devastate the citizens of Serbia and present yourself as some kind of elite? Is that chutanism maybe, or balscism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23810	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word is Alexandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23811	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, is a very dangerous spread in the public of great truths and fear among young people that they will not be able to school as much as they want to in the future. That's just not true. About 5% of all children to be enrolled will be included in the first round of this dual education, so it will be possible for 19 programmes in 60 schools to co-operate with 127 companies, which in the future will be able to acquire certain skills of knowledge, which does not mean they will have to stay in those companies. If they want to, they'll be able to go to higher education institutions, go to high school and enroll in prestigious universities. By then, when they are due to finish their fourth year of high school, they will have opportunities with a large graduation to enroll foreign universities. Therefore, the spread of disinformation in the public and the creation of a campaign that dual education is something bad, that produces cheap labour, is not true, because this would not be the case for Switzerland, would not be engaged in Italy, would not be the case for Austria, and at least Germany, which, as you can see, has made a surplus in its 14 billion-euro budget. This means that it is prepared as a great country, a great nation in which it is a high degree of multiculturalism to implement such programs precisely because it would develop its economy and it would not be possible unless there is a dual education system. What we have as a bill today is one model of dual education acceptable to Serbian society, acceptable to Serbia, linking education, science with economy in an appropriate manner that corresponds to the Republic of Serbia, the labour market and these opening factories. To keep Serbia from opening factories, new jobs unless there are people who will work there. Get used to having no job by 2012, young people, losing over 400,000 jobs in non-working factories, used to a system of values that was worth until 2012, in which they said the only good job was a government job, this psychology now needs to be changed for the future to welcome the fourth industrial revolution. She's already started and we just have to catch up with her. Taking steps means that in an adequate way, the education system of the Republic of Serbia must change. And he's changing. It is changed this way to accept the good practices of developed countries and in a certain way that we can keep our children here, not to go to EU countries and become a cheap workforce. Because if we talk about it, who's the cheap workforce, if you look at all the employees in EU Member States, they're all cheap labour compared to Germany, which is the most developed. I'll tell you that three million people have left Romania, so many have left the country, Bulgaria two million. The Western Balkan countries are also leaving a highly educated position and leaving for Germany. Why? Because the German state has conceived its economy by creating an internal growth and development, no matter who works with them, what kinds of people, nationalities function. They respect professionalism above all. With their ten-year plan, they plan to simply suck up their business system, more than 30,000 engineers by 2030, over 30,000 doctors, over 300,000 medium professional equipment. It's their long-term plan to maintain their high-level economy. What do we get? We get that no country is good enough to give people the standard they can get in a developed country like Germany. But that's why Serbia realized what we needed to do. The government of the Republic of Serbia recognized for the first time that science and education should directly link the economy from the point of view. That's why, as the people who are extremely responsible, we want our engineers and our doctors and the people who are of the profession to be kept here. So it's no accident that Mr. Vukic has just opened up many factories here, over 50, and these subsidies that we're talking about are joint business, on a joint mission, to keep people here who will be able to live normal from their jobs. It is a process and the salary they work for is no longer a basic motive for which people will remain in Serbia. Infostud jobs are one portal, a magazine that publishes a large number of ads for new jobs, as well as companies that apply. It is estimated that from 2016, I apologize, from 2007 to 2017, 30% of the number of advertising on that portal has been increased. What has been noted, from 2012 to 2017, is a complete change in the interest of young people who want to get a job. They used to declare in 2012, more than 40%, that they wanted to work in the state sector. Today, after the poll, which is 30% higher, more than 300,000 people, who have had opportunities to survey and apply for a certain type of job through the portal, say they would rather work in foreign and domestic private companies. Also, 40%. The relationship and psychology of people who are simply finishing colleges and looking for work have changed completely. That is why dual education, the law we are talking about today, is necessary to simply establish an adequate labour market with a certain quality of personnel. And finally, if we're going to watch as parents, every parent wants their child to stay here, to simply watch their descendants and their family every day here, not on the Internet or via Skype or abroad. Therefore, many things change in the world, Serbia is taking steps with all these changes, and therefore this law should be adopted. Those who attack him should make constructive proposals, not spread disinformation and fear among young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23812	Thank you, colleague Tomic. The next speaker is MP Vlado Babic, and may Mr Vladimir Djuric prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23813	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister with fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, I suggest that this amendment is not adopted because there is great interest, as well as a short need for dual education in certain economic resources that are interested in getting ready-made personnel, which they need in production processes. First of all, as far as metal industry is concerned, let's say, Jelizara Smederevo is interested in opening the direction of metal processing operators and this interest is a priority in Smederevo schools. Also, among some of the most prominent companies, the textile industry is concerned by six of the most prominent companies in Novi Pazar, the next school year will be included in dual education through co-operation with schools in getting ready frames for textile design and leather through the fashion tailor's direction. So in the area of wood processing, which is the profile of furniture-making operators, more skills are contained, such as the profession of carpenters, decorators, wallpapers, etc. It is precisely thanks to the interest of carpenters, decorators, wallpapers, thanks to co-operation with the German organisation for international co-operation and a project for reforming secondary education, initiatives have been launched to introduce this type of education in Serbia. Dual education implies practice in companies that would receive a trained, adequate frame. For example, last school year, locksmiths complement their experience and knowledge, not only in schools, school workshops, but also in plants in Kralje, Mladenovac and Obrenovac, and electricians in Lazarevec and Novi Sad. Realistically, we don't have any good masters today. I mean locksmiths, welders and electricians. We also have a need for them because they work only old and experienced, but at the end of their working age, young people still need to get dressed. They are the first generation of dual education, as patented in Germany. This happens with us that the practical part of training is mainly done in companies where they master the skills of professions, in the first year of one day, in the second year of two days, and in the third year three days a week. Due to the good and efficient functioning of dual education, Serbia must strengthen its economy, because certain things must be regulated, such as the place of students and their safety during their stay in the company, then good mentors who will adequately transfer knowledge, etc. Companies that accept students must motivate them through work in one way or another, whether by paying certain funds to students for their practice or by giving some benefits. It's already a question of company and its possibilities. That's why the whole problem of this kind of schooling goes down to locals and schools in municipalities where companies are strong, so every company that wants to get involved has room to open up these departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23814	Thank you, fellow Grandmother. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23815	Thank you. I wanted to respond here to these arguments, which have been made, how the dual education of the minority will establish the labour market in Serbia, as if we do not have a labour market. Actually, we don't have it. We've got it, but it's very dysfunctional. So don't let the kids set up the labour market. The labour market is not established by bringing children to that labour market. The labour market is established by the rule of law, courts, labour inspections. So, independent courts and unsuspecting labour inspections. That's one thing. The other thing is, we expose children to risks that are exposed to professionals, workers, and not to provide these children. What happens if a child gets an injury at work or in connection with work that will result in permanent, complete disability and permanent and complete incompetence of that child? That kid's not getting a disability pension. That child will be sentenced to insurance bought by an employer and that insurance at the school parents pay for, adding there to that school dinar that serves to pay for our free schooling parents to pay for toilet paper and towels in the toilet. As a parent, I financed the supply of air conditioning at the school where the son of the minister of education went. So much for free education. Get out of Germany. In Germany, you have the insurance of the employer's liability at several million euros in secured sums. That's how much he pays for that policy if the employee gets killed by the employer's guilt. We don't have that kind of insurance in Serbia, it's gone. The employer's responsibility, in Serbia, no liability insurance works, because no one here feels the risk of being responsible. That's the kind of job we take kids to. Do not become engrossed in the idea that these children will establish this labour market by coming to work with such employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23816	Thank you, colleague Guric. The word is made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23817	Chairman, I have to point to article 107. - Respect for the dignity of the National Assembly. I don't know if a fellow MP does it on purpose or if he's making a lapus, no one here is putting children on any market. This is about training children...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23818	Dude, this isn't a replica. Please, say...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23819	This is a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I said, "Article 107." I say again, nobody takes kids to the market. It is about improving the education system and repairing everything that has been ruined over the past decades, starting with Gusa Knezevic. Therefore, I ask you to take care of this next time and not let us insult children from this place in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23820	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. ) The word has been made by MP Branka Stamenković, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23821	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103, item one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. The President of the National Assembly shall be obliged to impose on a national MP who does not comply with the provisions of this Article or in another obvious way abuses the rights provided for by this Article the measures provided for in Articles 108 to 111 of this Rules of Procedure. Please, colleague Vujadinović, I think, has reported to the Rules of Procedure, and abuse is the time for replication. I appreciate your efforts. You tried to warn him. However, he ignored your warning and you, for some unknown reason, let him continue to violate it further, to abuse the wording of the Rules of Procedure. Please take two minutes away from the parliamentary group it belongs to, because that is what the Rules of Procedure prescribes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23822	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure. I understood what my colleague Vujadinovic wanted to say, which is that dignity was injured because of what was said that someone wanted, so it was said, now I don't know if I'm going to make it right again, that someone is bringing children to the market. So that's how he realized it, and he has the right to point it out. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Nenad Konstantinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23823	Dear Chairman, my distinguished colleague spoke about how unemployment will be reduced and how everyone can continue to school after dual education. I think it is important that everyone who sits in this room and participates in the debate see what kind of situation we are in today as a country, what kind of economy in Serbia and what needs and what opportunities we have. It is not realistic that the law on dual education as it was made and this concept to the desired results. What this law is going to create is that children who don't have money, who are poor, and that's the majority, and they have opportunities, have the talent to get further education, to finish high school, maybe go further and go to college, that because of their lack of funding, they will define themselves to go to dual education, where they will get 10,000 dinars for a month's work. So that's how we put all of them at 15 years of age into cheap labor and don't give them a chance to move on at all. It's not a realistic assessment that someone who completes a dual education will make an extra effort after that, take the prom and go back to college. It is simply not true, as it is not true that today we are in a situation like Germany in the 1960s, when labour was needed, when they were immigrants and when the Germans and the Swiss and Austrians were in those jobs and thus directed immigrants, not their children. So we need to take care of our children, that they get better education. This is not how we do it. Secondly, be realistic, what happened to the subsidies in this country? What's the structure of the economy? Do you have a situation where you fight to keep every factory because tomorrow she leaves if another country gives her more favourable conditions? What are we gonna do about these kids who spend three years in one factory job, and that factory goes away? There's no more factory. So if they learn to go to "Jura" nice cables, and "Jura" goes, they have nothing to do after that. In this law, you did not propose a mechanism for the child to be trained, where the child learns through work and has an obligation to hire him afterwards. So there's no guaranteed job, and there's an unfair competition for those who have finished school. Why don't we get this employer who needs the workforce to get the guy who finished high school to take him in? He'll be dressed for that job in a month or two. Being trained by some 40-hour instructor, it's not a serious transfer of knowledge. So we have people who are unemployed. You claim there's a need, they just don't want them, but they want those of 15 who can pay less, and I don't know if they pay taxes at all and contribute, since they don't get into a working relationship. So, in the situation in which Serbia is today and based on the experiences that we have in this country, not distant experiences, the last 10 years, the last 15 years, since privatisation, we are sure that this is how young people in Serbia can be converted into a cheap workforce. That's the problem. Don't do this to yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23824	Thank you, colleague Konstantinovic. Professor Marko Atlagic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23825	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister with associates, you are probably shocked by the statements of previous speakers, who do not understand dual education at all. Let's get it off the agenda today. ‘Dual’ means Latin ‘two’. It's about learning in two places. Please, about learning, not about some kind of physical, cheap workforce. That's what you're making up, gentlemen. People's MPs resent it. ) Please chair, please calm these unarticulated screams a little bit. So it's not about cheap labor, because you don't even know what labor is. It's not the workforce you're saying. I will define it for you - under the workforce means a set of mind, please, mind and physical abilities that exist in a man's living personality and that he uses whenever he wants to produce useful value. Come from that definition of economics if you're economists, and I see you're not. You're not lawyers, you're not economists. Then what's up? If you are going from this definition of labour that has been accepted in science, don't trick the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, don't trick our students. It is not true, gentlemen of the former regime, that our students will be professionally disabled, but vice versa, trained, modernized in dual education, highly trained for work and prepared for studies. It's all the other way around. This is what a man who had a dual education for the City of Belgrade said to you in 1990, and for the City of Belgrade, he produced exhaustes, among other things. Please, you don't understand at all what the workforce means, which means a highly trained man. Turns out everyone in dual education isn't gonna graduate from college. Don't trick our kids. It's not true that poor kids go there. Those who want to qualify for the profession for which dual education is introduced. Once again, please – don't mock our children and parents. This is about learning in two places, in a school where you learn theoretical teaching and exercises, for which you forget about entrepreneurs where you gain a certain experience, a modern experience. We're just getting a highly-educated workforce, if you'll excuse me at all, you know what the workforce is because the previous speakers come from a non-definition workforce. Please, once again, dear parents, I speak to you, and dear children, they lie to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23826	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The word has a national emissary Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23827	Thank you. I know about alpha males, but I don't know about alpha MPs, and I think a lot of people here want to be. I do not understand why the ruling coalition MPs are banalising any amendments the opposition is making. The opposition is making amendments and bringing everything down to the fact that we are misinforming the public and scaring the citizens of Serbia. No, we actually mean the diametric opposite and we have that right. We have the right for the following reason – first of all, Switzerland, Austria, Germany, which the colleague mentioned, are not countries that are comparative when it comes to cheap labour with Serbia. They don't actually have the workforce, and that dual education system might have been able to live there because they have an orderly system. We have cheap labour, unfortunately in the difolt. Why do we feel that this law is bad and that we have provided for the erasure of all amendments? Among other things, and because we don't see any reason why education that has its own ministry would go to the hands of the Chamber of Commerce, go to employers, privileged employers we don't know about, that nothing is going on just, that one day we're going to have some new law, maybe in a month, where we're going to have some tax benefits and relief for certain employers and what it's actually going to do to those kids who, I'm afraid, no matter what it is said here, are going to acquire additional knowledge in dual education. I'm asking in relation to what additional education? Compared to general technical education? What about the other extra educations? You think we need a lyrical like this, as my colleague said, to approach and say -- everyone else in Serbia, no one's gone, everyone's working on cranes, on machines, it's great, all the kids are at home and all the kids, say, where there are three kids, they work for all 100,000 dinars. If they finish something, they'll go to that Switzerland, Austria, Germany and that crane to work for a lot more money than their parents do here in as many important places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23828	Thank you, colleague Pavlovic. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23829	By amendment, the chairman. Mr. Minister, do we today have information about how many poor kids finish high school and how rich they are? Do we share children with the poor and the rich or those who teach school and those who don't teach school? What is it so far, where are these poor kids so far and do we even need to talk about the poor and the rich, make some elite classes in society that don't exist? Because this is Serbia that's been through a lot since the '90s and there's no division and we don't want to share people, and we just don't want to share children. On the other hand, it should be said, what many do not know, that in the time of Dragan Gilas, since 2011, has started an action – my practice in Belgrade, where 1800 students of technical colleges worked on practices in the public enterprises of the City of Belgrade, and to this day, and many are now employed, executives. Those who didn't finish college left to work with high school. What was the name of that program? I'm asking you now - what was the name of the program, Mr. Minister? So, there are some programs that are similar to dual education, so we didn't share people, or children into poor and rich, and that chase and making some quasi elite, so that means that the elite should be rich? That elite was rich until 2012. Now we simply don't have that elite that's as extremely rich as Mr. Gilas was. Therefore, please, Mr. Chairman, try to influence those who want to publicize the story of how dual education is something bad and how it produces poor people, that it does not exist in one Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23830	Thank you, Dr. Tomic. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23831	What's important is to say that it's really high time we stopped talking about these past tenses. So the responsibility is here now. The responsibility for dual education is here now. So, gentlemen, you've accepted a project called - Serbia, I keep saying that, in a country where the continuity of life has Serbian citizens. You sign everything now and it just counts what you sign. You have to face it, as uncomfortable as it is for you. So people don't care. Some kids now standing up for a vote don't even know who was five, six, seven, ten years ago. For them, the former authorities were the ones who were two years ago. So you're the same. So you have to accept responsibility. Whoever takes over someone else's project, the other doesn't care who did it before, he's interested in the one who's signing now. You sign, too, Mr. Minister, will bear responsibility for this law, as well as the MPs who will vote it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23832	Thank you, colleague Pavlovic Rijeka has a National MP, Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23833	Yes, of course I accept responsibility and accept responsibility in the same size as when we accepted it when we passed the Labour Act. When we passed the Labour Act, in principle such a similar debate was where we were honored that Serbia would disappear, that there would be cheap labour, that Serbia would stop and threaten the unions. Today, thanks to this law, we have, among other things, labour force, unemployment rate of 11% and GDP growth and a low inflation rate. It's pure math. Mr. Minister, I think that young generation, which we all call upon today, they're probably following what we're doing today, but they're much more interested in what their employers think about them, those who will decide and their salaries in 18, 19 or 15 years. What do we think? We create conditions for them to be better, but personally, they will depend on the people they work with and work in domestic and foreign companies. They honor us for what will happen when foreign capital, which has come to Serbia, goes away. It is a big problem in the global world, but in order to leave, they had to come, and to come, Serbia can thank President Alexander Vukic and the governments in the last three years, because he has brought her into the segment, perhaps some say -- cheap labour, a huge number of foreign investments, but also brought her to high technology. In 1936, in Serbia, there was a expensive workforce, in 1946, expensively expensive, in 2000, so it's a miracle how expensive the workforce was. In Serbia, there was never a labour force at the price level that was in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. Serbs are not going to work for Greece today, they are not going to Spain either, they are not going to Bulgaria or Romania. Today is a specific situation where you have several countries that attract labour. It's the essence of function. When the labour market in Serbia is such that the offer is less than the demand, and the demand can only be higher if you have foreign investments and domestics, then the labour price will also be higher. Anything else, even your law that implies that we have to comply with new trends is the complete demagogy that leads us back and back into a system where we're going to explain that when we have 400,000 unemployed, it's good for something, that when you have 2% growth, 5% inflation, that's something. Serbia has a chance to be a different country than we remember. Serbia must be like all normal European countries, in order for us to live and have a standard of living like those.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23834	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23835	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. In addition to the reasons for the amendments that I have signed, the 1st member, as well as all other members of the proposal for a law on dual education, is deleted because dual education is bad, because it is not designed in Serbia, because it is designed by a couple of experts who need a contract to work in the Swiss private chamber, because education is concerned by you – the Swiss Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and because I do not hear from my Government, but I hear from Swiss experts that the first results will only be seen in 15 years. Dual education is bad because of this ideology of poverty, the ideology of misery, which sighs on pedestal, because of the reasoning that we hear about how great it is and that you have 10,000 and 15,000 than you have nothing. Dual education is bad because it does not contribute in any way to any development of Serbia. The will of the majority to invent parameters on dual education is undeniable. She's legal, not legitimate. Ours is legitimate and willful and the view that dual education is bad for Serbia. It won't be long, so we'll have him suspended in this same assembly. We're not, we're not builders, and you're not going to stop it, because, as it's made up and made up, it's simply not going to be possible to see the application in practice. The specific provisions that I asked for to be deleted, except for this general that dual education is bad, are provisions that introduce and insecurity in the work of children, are messages that children, as soon as possible, need to find a job and then get an education. A society that abolishes its right to education is a society that has at the same time condemned itself to be constantly listening and to be on a 21st century development periphery, never to say, what I think to our people in particular, what they really want and to be in the middle of the 21st century. So that every member and title and everything that is written in this law can be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23836	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23837	This time by amendment. Let's repeat that really good reasons are what bothers us and whoever put together the proposal, who made it clear here to those who want to hear and who want to accept and who are bothering us with what law we support to continue to do so. All of what we have heard in the meantime, unfortunately, does not belong to good reasons, and we have heard, among other things, that someone gives himself the right to assess whether it is realistic or not, whether or not someone will happen after these programs, which we will adopt, does not worry about it, goes on schooling. How does he know? And how could anyone possibly know that? Is there a legal possibility left? Yes, it is. Is she real? It is considered, it is. Will it be used massively? He can't claim absolutely no one, and he's absolutely missing out on making a comparison with the situation we have today. It is said – a society that deprives itself of the possibility of education. Who will be denied a wider education? Will all other forms of school be abolished? Well, they won't, of course. Are there three years of programs that some have criticised this morning? There are. Were they there and will there continue to be different forms? Well, of course they will. Will there be any obligation when we adopt this law that everyone goes to dual education? Well, they won't, of course. So, whatever someone picked for their own free will yesterday, they'll choose tomorrow. Don't be afraid, and don't be afraid of the people about it. What is changing is that there are now clear rules in something that concerned gaining experience, knowledge, skills in practice. There was practice, you said it yourself, people. Have you forgotten yet? Is it possible that a discussion that lasts longer than one day makes a man forget his own words? There has been practice before but it has not been defined, it has not been precise, it has not been clear either roles or obligations, and that result has not been appropriate either. Now it's all gonna be. And what's wrong with that? They say a man here was terribly concerned about the insurance issue. How is that insurance issue regulated today? Is something going to get much worse? Well, it won't be much worse. Did he ask himself a question, a task -- come on, I'm now proposing that this issue be specifically arranged differently. I mean better, better quality, I'll suggest how. He didn't, of course, propose to erase everything, and now it's a big problem that, here, appeared with the proposal for a law on dual education. Well, he's not, whatever he's upset about, if he's honest about getting in his way, and it's gonna be that he's not as honest as he is about the principle story today. It's something that doesn't change with this proposal. What changes is what will help our students to be more skilled, and our students to find work easier tomorrow, but also easier to design work on their own, easier to start a job. It's not just a matter of finding out through those legal faces that already exist, but to interest and motivate a man, to give him ideas on how to start his job. So this enterprise that we're talking about, yes, it's being encouraged in this way and it doesn't come down to whether you're going to have to work in a particular company. The point is, you'll be able to do different jobs, you'll be better at those jobs, so you'll be able to choose more, and you'll be able to look for a place with better conditions. If everything you're offered doesn't satisfy you enough, you'll be able to run something of your own, easier than you could yesterday. These are differences for those who want to listen, for those who want to understand. It's not an ideology of poverty. It's the ideology of dynamics, abilities, the ideology of solving problems and taking on your own destiny in your own hands. Quite the opposite of ideology, or what it can be called, those who, for everyone in the world, except themselves, care absolutely nothing, which every day was a basic parole – good morning, a sheet on all four sides, I'll say something, I'll convince you, I won't do anything. How many hundreds of thousands of people will suffer for it, and their families and their children, I absolutely don't care, I'm good enough for myself. If you need to talk, and when I'm out of power, so I'll talk, words are cheap. That's the difference between them and us, who are still worried about something. Thank you. Nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23838	Thank you, colleague Orlic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23839	Thank you. The MP responded to the attitudes I shared in the National Assembly, wondering how we deny ourselves education, and what is the ideology of poverty? By promoting, with no knowledge of what is being promoted here, we also deny education and knowledge to everyone in society. It's pretty obvious if you look at the sentences of this, children will get the knowledge needed to produce very quickly and will open up small and medium-sized enterprises. Look at the structure of people who open small and medium-sized enterprises, how can they do that? Find me someone with dual education there. The point about finding any job in the 15th year is great and it's going to change the working habits of the population, it's the ideology of poverty. It's an expression of contempt for knowledge. We are not talking here about what we should do in the years ahead of us in the plans and programmes for Serbia's development. We're talking about 70.0000 children to be used as cheap labor. You know, there's always work to be done. The slaves were busy, as long as you wanted. The pay of slaves did not exist. In this, the key difference between the ideology of poverty that promotes cheap labour – be satisfied with it a little, because even without that little one you can stay. It's a common shame, because they're all our children. We will all live together in Serbia, in years ahead of us. Don't think you can't hear or see what's obvious, which is that dual education, which is bad, is not an authentic project for Serbia, under one. Two, he's got work to do, slaves have jobs, and no pay.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23840	Thank you. 'The word has Vladimir Orlic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23841	I don't want to ask which 70,000 children. I don't want to waste time or mine or anyone else's time, but let's get to the bottom of things. Failure projects, have we repeated several times which countries are an excellent example of exactly these models? Is Germany a failure? There's something I wouldn't say. Is the failure of Switzerland mentioned by some today? I don't think so again. Is Austria a failure? I'm thinking, I can't convince myself that she's a failure. Now let's talk about what will be possible, what won't be possible? Will someone get a stronger initiative to do something of their own to start their own business based on more experience in practice, based on the opportunities indicated, which simply didn't exist because there were no system solutions? I'm saying he will. Do you know why I claim he will? Because I can imagine exactly the situation. Someone, for example. He wants to do some production, but he doesn't know how, he goes to a school that already exists, he attends a program that already exists, he's got the practice set up, but in practice, it's going to come down to -- someone's going to sign you there that you've been somewhere because there's no obligation of school to give you the opportunity to work on a modern machine, there's no, there's no, everyone's giving you how much debt. That's it. That's all you think about and spend a year, four, spend your whole life thinking and never do anything, because you're just thinking, you've had so much opportunity based on your experience, to go away. On the other hand, you get a chance to go to a company that shows itself the initiative and the desire to see you there. He's showing you, for example. New machine. Yeah, for example. the ability to sit down for the first time as a controller and program it and realize that what you wanted to do, now you know how. That year or four, in ten, it doesn't matter when, much easier to start that business of his own, than one who could always think about it, and not so much easier than one who never had a chance at a job and whose parents were out of a job, thanks to those who know everything today, except what should be a topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23842	Thank you, colleague Orlic. MP Vladimir Djuric has come forward, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23843	To the previous speaker, nobody here has said that Austria and Germany are unsuccessful, but don't sell citizens the story that they're successful just because they have dual education, because they'll turn out to believe that dual education will make us successful, and they won't. As far as unemployment data is concerned, here's how that data got here. This is a chart that demonstrates the decline of the population in Serbia, stable 30-40 thousand citizens annually, especially since 2012, in this so-called. It's pericol time. So when the unemployment data is corrected for those who have left, for those who have been removed from the records, because one day they are late to apply, for those who work for an hour, so they are no longer treated as unemployed, etc. Then we can talk about the accuracy of those percentages. Otherwise, we'll think that your unemployment record is as accurate as your voter list, which is exaggerated by 800-900 thousand souls. It's about data and figures. So we have a population drain at twice the rate in the last few years. As for insurance, insurance is not regulated by the dual education law, it's regulated by the Safety and Health Act. It was regulated there that workers must be provided with work-related injuries and consequences, therefore, permanent disability. If we had proposed to amend and supplement that law and fixed the minimum amounts to which workers must be provided, you would say that we are driving investors, and that you are bringing here in your time of Perikl. You would say, "You will charge investors to provide workers." Your employees are expenses. The whole law is written, as he says, according to the employers. The interest of employers is most often mentioned in the explanation. I said it in the tide, I'll repeat it and now, it's like having a parking system in the city of Belgrade regulated for the purpose of filling the city's budget, not for the citizens to solve the problem of parking. That's how you make this dual education law. Otherwise, no one here does artificial division on the elite and on the lesser elite. These divided the natural consequences of right and choice. Someone decides not to study, go to high school, all these problems I've raised in my previous presentation exist when students go to practice. They don't have to be students who learn to work in dual education, they can get hurt in a factory while they're in practice, it has nothing to do with the Dual Education Act. So, you have an unregulated labour market, you have broken down institutions, you have no rule of law, and in such a system we dare children, let's not use the same expression, we expose to the risks of the labour market in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23844	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23845	One thing here was commendable, I must admit, is that the one who just volunteered to explain something to me realized that he had made a mistake earlier, obviously. He was just trying to convince us that the biggest problem here is what happens if someone gets hurt. Here, now it says - it doesn't seem to be the subject of this law after all. Here, now it says – it looks like it's nothing different than it was yesterday. Thank you very much, I guess we got along, that's exactly what we were pointing at. As for the serious systems we look up to, no one said they were only good because of this. But let's figure out some chronic desire and some chronic need to be criticised to criticise and some normal things of some normal approach to what's right – okay, this is good. That's it, there's no further. Not to spread the story, not to go to some fantasy or fantasy. Is it a good opportunity for someone to acquire additional skills through practice? Once again, for the hundredth time, come on, there'll be a hundred first if you have to. Well, it's a good thing, what's so controversial about it? What is controversial about statistics that are good for the European Union? I may ask the wrong people, I ask people who want to freeze European integration, how they explained it on their own on their website, but we who are genuinely interested in those integrations, it is still very important to us that, for example, on the matter of the situation in Chapter 18, as regards state statistics, Europe, people, says, we do it the same way. That statistic is good and correct. No single objection has been given to the way it is done in Serbia. They work the same way. Now someone finds himself smarter, not than us, but than this Europe and says – well, it's all wrong, it doesn't count the right way. It says – it is not properly shown that 30,000 people have fewer per year in Serbia. Well, everybody knows that, nobody's happy about that statistic. But what's better for you? The year it turned out it could be in order in less than a year. When? That's what I end up with, Mr. Chairman, right in their time and those with whom they hug and kiss in the squares. Just at the time of those with whom they say themselves are ideological and political twins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23846	Thank you. (Vladimir Djuric: Replica. You have no right, he didn't mention you. You exchanged, I mean, the arguments are great both, so let's get it over with. Would you like to follow the amendment? Here's to the amendment. The word is Vladimir Djuric's.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23847	It'll be a replica, but you take down the time by amendment, let me explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23848	You just talk about the subject, you can interpret it any way you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23849	Of course. The law also regulates the issue of insurance and calls for a law that regulates the insurance problem for employees. It's a relationship. We could have written the amendment and under this law, we could have changed and added that other law, as you have so far rejected all the opposition's proposals, you would have refused, and you would have made an argument that we were raising the costs to investors and making investors. That's your story. That's what you keep saying. Thank you for visiting our website. There are a lot of interesting things out there. Here, I invite citizens to visit him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23850	Thank you, colleague Guric. The word has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23851	There are great things. About 90% of all what I find completely missed in that strange excuse for politics I find precisely on that website, among other things, and a famous apology for the leprosy behavior in the National Assembly under the heading "I was right". So I've seen it on that site, and I've seen it on that website, and I've seen it all on that website. I welcome that we agreed on that. And I invite citizens to visit that site as often as possible. What's the problem? The problem is that we're talking now about burdening whoever the investor is here, and apparently we're no longer on the same side of whether we understand each other or not whether whoever wanted to say something on the subject of insurance wants to propose it or just talk about it. If he's just going to talk about it, it's not controversial, he can, but he'll always get the same answer – you're not honestly interested, you're just telling stories for the sake of it. When you suggest something smart and stand behind it, it's worth talking about, as far as we're concerned. As far as storytelling is concerned, it's a missed approach, I guess you've all figured that out by now. Whoever was playing and singing here for the sake of song and story was passing by with a result below the number of invalid ballots in the election. So nothing can be expected to be reasonable and clever. When we touched these investors and subsidies, I asked one question this morning. Anyone who wants to talk about it with argument, get up and say – how much subsidy has been granted in this country, how much has gone to domestic and how many foreign owners? Who can say that to me is qualified for further discussion on the subject. Who doesn't know what he wants to talk about, let alone what he wants to say. One more thing. Have we determined in the very end whether the elections were fair and fair or that hundreds of thousands of souls were missing? Since those who cannot agree with themselves whether or not they are better insurance, they cannot agree with themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23852	Thank you. There's a word for the amendment, George Komlensky.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23853	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, of course this amendment should not be accepted for one simple reason because dual education is just another in a series of possibilities that our students will get as an opportunity and a place to choose how they will travel their way of life. It is very hypocritical when the creation of a cheap or slave labor force is spoken of by those who did so while in power. Robovska and cheap labour were created by robbery privatisation because there is no cheaper labour force than when the loss of almost a million jobs in the country in Serbia requires a graduate lawyer to work on construction, when the employer comes in to blackmail a graduate lawyer, instead of hiring a qualified builder who knows how much his work is worth. This creates a slave position for anyone, when you put a graduate engineer or a machine engineer in a position to take bread and a job for someone who's a moller. That's how slave labor was created. This dual education thing is the right opportunity for anyone who wants to do business, to be a master, to live on from their craft, to get a proper education, to continue to work and in no way to deny the possibility of further schooling or the ability of anyone to study. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, these lies we listen to have already really gone beyond what we hear. I believe you'll be able to assess it in the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23854	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. According to the amendment, the word is Serbian Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23855	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of Serbia, you know how, it's the easiest thing to control people with fear, so with citizens, some would wake up fear of education both from school and from work, and just those who work most afraid, because if they'd ever known anything to do, they'd know what it means to do, to be a craftsman and to earn their wages fairly and everything you have in life to get off your ten fingers. Some gained ten fingers, but their fingers were in the pockets of those whose lives they wanted to rule through fear. So today, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, citizens are speaking directly to the public by trying to cause fear of dual education, fear of work, fear of daily learning. If we want to be in a society that wants to belong to modern, European civilization, globally, to progress, to develop, to have private companies, to have a market economy, to have capitalism, so for God's sake in 2000, some who also burned this high home under the pretext of wanting capitalism, to want a market economy, to want a liberal economy. Now we say that we won't, we don't want dual education, we don't want young people to learn because they're gonna be cheap labour. They didn't need it, and they showed it by leaving 500,000 young people and older people out on the street without a job, without a chance to make a living. We today, the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with the proposal for a law on dual education, give young people a chance, give those who want to get real, make their own private company, learn a good trade, give them a chance to learn, learn and work and live honestly, underline, honestly from their work. For some, it was just a slogan, just a phrase, honest, honest, and fair, and it all came down to the unfair, left hand of the right pocket. Today we want young people to learn, to work, to open their companies and to work with 10 fingers alive and on machines, in factories, to open up their businesses and make this country richer and happier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23856	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23857	Just for a little while, for the public, to see that they're not exactly cheap wages in dual profiles that work now. The furniture operator has 50,000, which is the smallest, fashion tailor 60,000, locksmith 60,000 to 70,000, industrial mechanic 70, metal-processing operator 70,000, air-mechanist 120,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23858	Thank you, Minister. By amendment, Balša Bozovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23859	Minister, I'm glad you showed up alive after eight hours of debate in this house. What I'm interested in is, do you really propose to us the law and vision of Serbia in the next 50 years based on two welders you can't find as a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia? You really think it's dual education, where you're going to have a "Nikolu Tesla" with your talent to condemn to make screws. You will now completely subdue him and will not allow him to show his talent, to upgrade himself, because instead of being enlightened, your goal is exclusively, as your fellow ruling majority colleagues have said, to be skillful. Is it a skill to make 100 instead of 80 screws per hour? Yes, it is. Does this mean that someone will be enlightened and educated, that they will be able to use their talent in the best way, which may not be used by another country, but by ours? Now, two welders who lack a factory, which has 10,000 euros per job, have come to the idea of mutilating someone's future. I don't think you understand what this is about when you come to the National Assembly to propose a law that will solve the employment of those up to 25 years. Well, that's not your job. You're just talking about Switzerland, Germany, and I see you approve of what the ruling majority MPs say, and there are migrants in that Germany, there's an economy, there's those who can't assimilate, and then they can't learn language, so they can't attend schools, and then there's a dual education to get someone to drive a tram, some trolleybus, some bus, so someone can produce some cables, and you do that to the children of Serbia, in an economy that has 1.3% growth a year. Do you know that it's not stagnation, it's going down from year to year? According to this model of employment calculation, you from ten million euros can lower unemployment to 0%. Don't make up new jobs. There are no new jobs. You have "Mei here", you have "Leir", you have your economic giants who have employed hundreds of workers with a salary of 20,000 dinars. These are the people standing behind the tape in the diapers. They don't have the right, not under the Labour Act, they don't have the right to go to the bathroom. Are you aware that such people are fired when they suffer from severe illness? Are you aware that the woman was ill with cancer and was fired in the term of Alexander Vulin, while he was Minister of Labour. Are you aware that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has completely disproved every man who gets his job this way. He's a cheap extension machine in a factory, not a citizen worth respect. Don't let me be here right now because of the airman, and by the way, the JAT technique is going down and you're going to be out of a job soon, so you two airmen here are telling me that these are 70, 80,000 dinar salaries. You really should be ashamed of that. Because that's not the way. You can't yell at me. I'm a National MP. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23860	My colleague Bozovic, I beg you for peace. Please remain at the level of dignity of the dialogue. It doesn't make sense. The minister's here with his team. He's sitting here with us. He's working with us. There's no point in insulting him. Please, I won't let you do it again. Keep going, but please don't be offended.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23861	Absolutely, Chairman, I do not insult anyone and you must defend me, not the minister. So here he is, who has to answer the questions of the MPs, not threaten with the finger of the MP and say, "Don't let that happen again." So, speaking of this topic of the agenda, of course it is, and it would be funny if I was afraid of anyone from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but what's the topic of the agenda is what hurts most the ruling majority. Is the talent of those children recognized by those children who are not poor? So, just admit that talent to kids who can go to private schools. You were one of the directors, I think, of a private school, where scholarships are 10,000 euros a year. Now tell me only one thing, so only those children who can have parents who can provide 10,000 euros a year, their talent is respected, and poor children and children of poor parents have no right to use their talent to build it up and really become the best in their fields. It is the essence of dual education, which you do here to our children, children born in Serbia, unlike Switzerland, Germany, Austria, who do this to children of migrants who cannot fit into one society, not to talk about their economies growing year by year and growing higher and higher growth. I want to tell you that it is completely incompatible to talk about Switzerland, Austria on the one hand and Serbia on the other. You do it here, I repeat, to the children of Serbia and do not defend your law in this way. You have no argument, except that two welders are missing and that's 80,000 salaries, see how much you can get rich if you go to dual education. The whole world, the modern world, strives for lifelong learning, only you cut it to three years. Do you think someone in the West went crazy when they made a law where kids would go from one level to another, so they had a chance to education in a way that also had universities, to have postgraduate, doctoral and post-doctoral studies. No, you just let them, like once in the evening school, finish some small trade and then this 20%, half of them, won't know how to read or write. You've got a day today, Doctor. Some of you are sitting right here. Doctors of science, not all, some, who are illiterate. Imagine what happens to anyone who goes to school for three years, and 80% spends time in a factory. He just won't understand anything about the modern world. Will he vote as the leader tells him, the party? It will. Will he vote as his employer says? It will. Because it'll work for 15, 20,000 dinars. That's not a 21st-century citizen. It should not be after the 1990s, when Serbia has experienced the greatest pogrom of cultural, economic, to allow the potential of future generations and generations to be humiliated in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23862	Minister Sarcevic has the right to replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23863	Just one piece of information to you, I've only been able to contact you twice in two minutes. We only passed two members, and I didn't sit here just to sit down, but I didn't have any more opportunities. I'm right, when you're all done, every member for just two minutes, so I didn't have a better chance. Here, I've been waiting for everyone to work out, only two members have passed. I'd love to live in a society where everyone's Nikola Tesla, but I don't think that's gonna happen in the happiest country of the world. When we talk only about lifelong learning, a message is important to children - the passing of the third and fourth degrees when high-level vocational schools and at the university is resolved by this law, as was done in the Law on Higher Education, there is learning with work also at high school. So, what's the percentage? Well, we don't know, it didn't even start. It's 25% in Germany.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23864	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. A colleague, George Komlenski, right on the line. I apologize to my colleague Komlenski, Marijan Rističević, for his injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23865	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 107. Rules of Procedure. You, Mr. Chairman, are certainly familiar with the dignity of the National Assembly. When, for example, an orthodox drone talks about work, it's a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly for me. When someone talks about cheap labor, those who were the most expensive non-work force, when someone insults the dignity of the National Assembly by insulting the builders, carpenters, scrapers, etc., so he talks with humiliation about the production of screws, I wonder, isn't that a violation of dignity? Would people drive cars if it was asked Balsa Bozovic? Would people drive tractors? They don't have screws, they say screws, they certainly wouldn't be. Without a spin, there wouldn't be. I, who went through dual education, know what it is. But I am grateful that Balsa Bozovic provided me with information about Sutanovac, his savings, etc. As you can see, everything is confirmed. I'm grateful for that. But I wonder, how is it a cheap labor force when one tailor is, and he gave me the data, the cheapest suit he ever sewed, and he sewed 12 suits in a military residence of "grabs", how is it that, when we insult the tailor's labor force, how did the suit "tajjetin Secer" charge eight thousand, as much as you said, Mr. Bozovic, up to 15 grand? It's just one suit he sewed to the president of his party.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23866	Go back only to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23867	So, I think it's a serious violation of dignity when someone says it's gonna be a cheap workforce, and that cheap labor force sews his president's suit of 8,500 euros, and it sews 15 pieces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23868	Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Gjorge Komlenski has a right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23869	Thank you, Chairman. Indeed, it is extremely impertinent and inappropriate that the work of Alexander Vulin and the most successful period of work of the Republic Labour Inspectorate is being spoken of by someone who supported and participated directly in the government that left a million people without a job, a million families of the hungry, who knows how many hundreds of thousands of citizens of Serbia without certified health books, without being able to heal, one who supported defence ministers who destroyed military effects, and we do not know how these jobs effectively reflected their personal effects, on their accelerated acquisition of property, on return pastures, on buildings in the return pastures, and we wonder whether there is a direct connection between one and the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23870	Thank you. The word is Ivan Manojlović, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23871	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as usual when other laws are on the agenda, I am glad because we see that the harsher the opposition and the more it shows that this hurts, the more it shows us nothing but that we are quite right about the adoption of some new laws that this country can improve. Only dual education is something new to bring, and we should all look at it in a way that gives administration a new width, that gives one new opportunity to acquire knowledge and skills. Here, by some MPs of the opposition, it is simply as if it were not an educational system, but that it is a criminal system, that educational institutions knowingly replace the term of a minority criminal institution and say that when this law enters into force, someone will be punished, sentenced, or already do not know, however they try to present it. Dual education is an extremely good thing. I would call on these MPs who also when the minister says and lists the salaries, if it were 50, 60, 70,000 dinars, then after two minutes, you get the same call and say again – 20,000 dinars will be paid. I, for my part, worked in Switzerland for a foreign company, and I know very well that it is not true that migrants attend dual education and that this system exists for a long, long time in Switzerland, that even the Swiss who were born there were introduced into such a system of education. It's not Switzerland's country, nor Austria, nor the others who have changed their laws, that's because, apparently, some migrants have come. For this reason Serbia does not introduce this law either. All this says in favor of the fact that the opposition here criticises again for criticism, and we will be happy that our children, where I am counting on my child, as well as my other colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party and coalition partners, get into the hands of something that can really improve themselves the next day, and of course that every parent will be happier if his child shows interest and continues more education or higher education, which in no way the dual education they attend in elementary school and high school can't prevent it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23872	Thank you, colleague Manojlovich. On the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs together Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic, together by Marinika Tepić, Zoran Zivkovic, Jovan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Cabraj and Sonja Pavlovic, together Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dr Ana Stevanović, Vladimir Djurić and Mr Jasmina Nikolic and jointly Marko Djurić, Miroslav Aleksić, Nenad Konstantinović, Goran Bogdanović and Zdravko Stankovic. The word is Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23873	Mr. Minister, the Serbian Radical Party is against this law. We believe that the basic motive which has been stated and which has been spent all the time during the session of this working group in the preparation of the law, that this law is being prepared to meet and to make some compatibility with future market needs, is the wrong approach. Because you can't in Serbia, where it's absolutely unstable, where there's no economic strategy in the long run, where agriculture is destroyed, where there's no strategic investment in those industries that can make a very short period of time, but it's all about bringing foreign investors, which are going to give 10-11 000 euros in subsidies for one job, open factories with several hundred jobs, so in such a market economy, you can't direct education for a future time where you don't even know when children of many here are in the National Assembly what knowledge and competences will be needed and what they're going to be looking for. I've been listening to everything for the last few hours, especially when it comes to old traditional occupations in Serbia, from being demeaning both carpenters and tailors etc. I could order you, Mr. Minister, quite literally every one of these old crafts, because out of this business I'm doing research into what the old craftsmen were in Serbia and in what part of Serbia were nursed and in what way, and not just crafted as craftsmen, but what is derived from one basic trade. It is not true that each one of these crafts has its own past and place in modern times. Unfortunately, that's because the industry has advanced, modern technologies have advanced, and someone can't say that the weave was paid more than a hundred years ago. It is not well paid today, because the valuable hands of the Women of Syrogin are not for their manual work and for the art paid even today well, such as not well paid and the Barchvan trade, such as not enough paid or tailor's trade. But that doesn't need to be our guideline in a country where, more than once, Radet's colleague pointed out, we have 6.5% of highly educated people. We were, and I'm going to end up, because there's not much time, and we need to direct future generations and make sure society bothers them to educate themselves high for certain jobs, to gain more knowledge, that they can also qualify them if they want to on foreign markets. We were in a position to visit the People's Republic of China as a parliamentary delegation. Every year when someone graduates from high school, especially college, they know exactly what his job is and where he's going to work. We don't know that here because bought diplomas, starlets that are close to ruling parties, get a place in public enterprises, and then it's really understandable that even today people with higher education have to do jobs with entrepreneurs who do other different jobs. That is why we are against dual education,1 we need to focus on schooling children, that we have highly qualified and workers, but most intellectuals who will be able to start a business engine and return the real values, because a child cannot be educated for economic reasons only, and that is a motive for which someone will enter a school, because it is a social being that must have awareness of what kind of political environment, what a nation belongs to, how it should defend its country, and not just codify itself through some occupation and tell it – there, you will learn, work and be rewarded for it, but have full awareness of how it must and how to fight for its country and traditional Serbian values.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23874	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word is Dr. Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23875	I thank the chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates, the MP's group Enough has submitted all the amendments he wants to delete all members of this bill. In fact, we believe that this law is terribly bad, that it cannot be corrected by amendments, and that is why we resorted to this action to delete all members. What did we do that for? We believe that dual education is not an adequate educational concept. You currently have the education of terribly poor results, so, above all, our education, at all levels, starts from preschool through primary school to high school, requires a radical reform. You can't have bad results, bad outcomes as they are today by introducing dual education. By introducing dual education, you're just trying to hide the results somehow, to end them, that's not the solution to our education system. That is why we are calling for the other MPs, although unfortunately I know it will not happen, to vote against this law, since we consider the law to be very bad, it is impossible to fix it. I agree with other opposition colleagues, who have used this argument, I will also repeat it, that this law creates our students, i.e. transforms them into a cheap workforce, which will serve large industries, large corporations the next day, and will be of no use to the citizens of Serbia, nor to our education, nor to our industry. It's okay to introduce dual education when you have a developed country. You are perfectly fine with the arguments that colleagues mentioned and as far as Switzerland is concerned, as far as Austria is concerned, about Germany, these are countries that have developed industry. Serbia until it has developed an industry has no basis for introducing dual education, so I ask you to reconsider the introduction of this law once again, because it is terribly bad and will create generations of young people who will not learn to think, who will not be free citizens, but will be a purely cheap workforce in their own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23876	Thank you, colleague Stevanović. The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23877	Our parliamentary group has also proposed to delete Article 2 of this law, as well as all members of the law, because we consider the proposed law to be bad, but if we look at this particular member who defines the concepts, we see the pretentiousness of the promoter when he passed this law. This law could pass as amendments and additions to the law on secondary education in order to define a little better learning through work and practice, thus meeting the objective that the legislator had given in the reasons of the law but there was a need to pass a law on dual education, and this need has existed for five years. Since we have a minister in refusal to explain why this amendment is being rejected, like everyone else, it is one explanation for all, says our proposal is not in line with the education development strategy adopted by the government on 25 October 2012. Watch out, 2012. So, for five years there has been a strategy, and this strategy has been implemented so far, before Minister Sarcevic had three ministers, and none of them were prepared to pass this law. So, why is that? Because this is a bad solution. Dual education is not appropriate to the economic situation in which Serbia is located, it is not appropriate to develop what Serbia needs. Here we are talking about examples that dual education works successfully in Germany, Switzerland, Austria, but these are highly developed countries and they have a need for a qualified workforce that has an interest in education in some profile and that it remains to work maltene all its life, of course following how technology develops, but it has a guaranteed workplace. Is dual education the way Finland, South Korea developed? Whether the Eastern European countries of Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania developed in this way. Is that the way? It's not. It may be in one small segment, but that's not the answer to the problem we have. To the fact that one third of young people don't graduate from high school. This won't improve the situation. Instead of talking about how to make secondary education mandatory for everyone, how to make education cheap, to introduce free textbooks, to make parents who live hard and make little money because of the government's poor economic policy to make it easier for them and their children, we don't talk about it. We've been set up with this story of dual education as some kind of rescue that will now reverse the education of young people and start a business because it's supposed to be missing qualified personnel. Well, he won't. If it were so, you would introduce the employer's obligation to hire the student who comes to him for this dual education as you call it. It's completely wrong. This is not the dual education that exists in Germany, Austria, Switzerland. A young man gets a job there at the employer's office, starts working, works for a salary with all the money he's paid for. And then he's got an education, so at some point he can get out of that job and get on with his education, but there's no education here. What will be the consequence of such a law? It's going to be that the employer will take some student and train him for some highly qualified job. The minister has now brought forth several professions here, how many students are in that program, by the number of students he's learning for I don't know, a merchant or some very simple jobs. We're going to have a situation where when they're trained by a trained worker, they get a salary of, 50, 120 thousand dinars, great, and someone's going to work, some student for 15,000. It's that cheap labor force. That's the abuse of young people we're talking about. The employer will take them at the time he might need them for the season or for some inflow of work, take more students, work with them, two, three, maybe one semester and then return them and say, so we don't need these workers right now. That's the problem. If you had put the employer's obligation here to hire that student then we could talk about the concept of dual education, this is not dual education, and that's why we're against it. That's why we gave 41 amendments to delete each member because it was not possible to fix amendments to this bill. So, Minister, you've been given this assignment obviously when you were elected minister to do what your three predecessors didn't want. Neither Minister Verbic nor Minister Jovanovic nor Minister Zarko Obradovic wanted to introduce a dual education because it does not need Serbia. It's bad for development, for Serbia's future. We need to educate young people, use talent in each of them to develop our economy, to make it competitive. Competition today is not in tons of production of something but in ideas, innovation. This is not how people are going to be educated to create new values, new ideas. I know that in the end this law will be passed, unfortunately. Luckily, he probably won't live long. I think you'll have one stain in your career that you were the minister who agreed to do what your predecessors didn't want to do. For five years, the ministers refused, and unfortunately, you gave in and today we have this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23878	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23879	Thank you, Chairman. I have to say, I don't know what they're laughing at, given to a Serb accident, because they've ruined our labour force, we hear here that we have to train the staff, or we have to train the students. Why haven't you trained them all these years? Why did you lead to the death of a craft in Serbia, to take for factories today a welder who is over 50 years old because we don't have any young welders? Why did you build us a system after 2000 to go to the most primitive capitalism, that original accumulation of capital? And now you're suddenly against the market. Now you're in the self-government system. Now you're in favour of the state guaranteeing us a job. Well, you see, that's the hypocrisy we want to change now. That's exactly why I congratulate you, Mr. Sarcevic, because you're introducing this and because they didn't have the courage to introduce this. They tell us – we don't need cheap labour. In their time, we didn't have any workforce. We had a labor force on the street, with the factories closed. They, unfortunately, made of Serbia's unemployed, young people who had no job at all. And now someone's gonna try and teach you something. I apologize that today the worker is much more esteemed, that the market is so that both waiters and welders and metallungarians are being sought today. Sorry there's a need for that, that's because the market dictates prices. Thank God we're gonna start developing that. They say they bought diplomas here. They made those colleges. They gave them the first license. All those "gigiggau" colleges that we have today, these private colleges, they just formed it. Why? To hire their staff in the municipalities. That was the point. That's what they were doing. And the first government to introduce a system in what can be called college was the current government. The Law on Higher Education was changed in 2014 to know what college was. And with them, we've had a bunch of bought diplomas, as much as you want bought diplomas, invented colleges. And then they tell me, someone buys diplomas. So what they did, they studied the so-called "Students". Manager. We have an export manager, and we've never had a worse economy than in their time. We had a completely ruined economy, and the managers were able to export. But that's why we don't have any craftsmen. Now, that's what tragedy is. I'm sorry, but that employee was still raising some company, and they destroyed it. That's why I'm an absolute supporter of this dual education. They say: "Let us not look up to Germany; it is a developed land. And how do you think you can develop a country if you don't have a qualified workforce, if you don't teach someone something? How do you think someone's even developing here? It's a shame someone's laughing at this. They're laughing at our misfortune, and they've ruined this country. And someone here is changing something. And I think this is positive. Mr. Charcevic, I said that and in the debate, I'm just afraid this might not apply. I'd just ask the state to be as agile as possible in this, to have our school system pressed on without delay if we had to educate people who would be craftier, after all. Understand, people, there's no one to work! We're gonna have a big problem. Here, Bulgaria and Romania have this pain -- they import labour, because young people have left, because that's what the market is looking for, and then they bring people from Ukraine to do it. I'm afraid it won't be with us, because we don't even have a qualified workforce, and because, unfortunately, the young world is leaving. And it's not just a problem for Serbia. Poland also has a terrible problem with it, and it's much more developed than we are. The Czech Republic, too. It's just that you have a fluctuation of people within the European Union. It happens, what we do. But we have to make sure that the trade has to be raised. We can't afford to have kids who finish electrical engineering school anymore, and unfortunately, the solution doesn't know how to fix it. That's really scary. So they have to make a trade somewhere and know they're doing their job. And that's why I congratulate you for bringing this in. And don't listen to this, because it's such nonsense, it's not even in Cardell's time to talk like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23880	The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23881	Thank you. One part of my exposure was misread. I recognized myself in Mr. Djukanovic's presentation. We are talking about an amendment that my colleagues and I have submitted before the Serbian Radical Party, which is identical to these other parties. In fact, the point is that Mr. Djukanovic is not a problem, and you are also a witness, because you yourself, Mr. Marinkovic, have personally looked at you, talked about the need for the development of entrepreneurship in our country, is not the problem of importing the workforce. Because Serbia will not be expecting that time soon, Mr. Minister will agree, that we must go abroad because of major economic activities to import experts. The problem is that Serbia's labour is being exported and qualified young people have to leave because they can't find a job here. Mr. Minister, let me tell you something. Indeed, it has been repeated so many times that it has now become a kind of hit - the interest of the welder, who has been disabled, and you know very well, as a man who has passed and I have listened carefully, from your schooling to your higher education, all in that former Yugoslavia, it has always been a disabled occupation. And you know yourself that those people who did these jobs in the '60s and '70s, and in the years after that, they were best able to make money here, and they could also find a job in the so-called countries. The Third World and being paid so well that after two or three years they return to the then Yugoslavia, that is, the city where they live and make money to provide their grandchildren. So don't change the thesis. It is not about the need for an education system to adapt to current market requirements, but that a child who is aware of what he wants to be in life is being set upside down here, so the child must, based on and consultation with his parents and his knowledge and initial education at primary school, decide where he wants to go and how his work and his intellectual awareness of everything that is going on in society will continue to be directed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23882	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djukanovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23883	Thank you. I didn't want to interpret an esteemed colleague, I didn't even respond to her exposure, I was more like something else, but since you mentioned it, here's to not being welders. Here's your elevator installers. I live in a 22-story solider, I ask the man who holds our elevators, who will do it in the future? No one will. There's no one to go to that school. It's a disaster. Why? Because we destroyed that kind of craft. That's what can really concern all of us and it's not true that we won't import, we will, because we don't have enough skilled labour, and we need to develop the economy. You can't develop an economy if you don't have a qualified workforce. Where does she learn if you don't have an education system like this? Where can you learn that today, when all the factories went out? Only when you bring a foreign investor here or a local who would really like to expand his production, is where you can teach those kids. Unfortunately, there are no major economic and social systems today that used to be. Thanks to the gentlemen who complain about dual education today, everything is ruined. The only way you can train the workforce is this one. Let's not play with it, we'll get into a situation where we don't have anyone to do this unless we introduce this, so congratulations on the courage to introduce this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23884	Thank you. Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: Replica. The word has the People's Messenger Natasha Sp. Jovanovic. Here you go. (Alexander Martinovic, Vladimir Orlic, Aleksandar Markovic: What replica? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23885	There, so beautiful, the replica, Mr. Martinovic, Orlovic, Markovic, when Djukanovic is not rebelling, what are you rebelling about? So, to make a little joke, Mr. Djukanovic, we can't agree to this example of dual education because of your elevator. I'm just trying, and that's what MPs of the SRS do all the time, to tell you that the problem is in highly educated personnel, not in what children get through secondary education. After all, Mr. Minister has come here to advocate this model and to vote him out, but he cannot disagree with me, like all of you, that so many children in Serbia are capable that, even though they are high school students, or are trained for some social occupations, in entrepreneurial activities they can do just as well quality work. If we talk about what the market is looking for, but the law must not be passed because current or market opportunities for a certain period are so up to the requirements.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23886	Thank you. Replica, MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23887	I'm really sorry, but I don't see that the capitalist system is going to change and certainly the market will dictate what is sought and, of course, educational profiles, unless someone imagines that they don't introduce self-government here or that they might return socialism. I honestly don't think it has any perspective, and that's why I'm not in favor of someone here banking right now because of your elevator. Well, here, we don't have plumbers. And here we are at the deficit. We don't have plumbers. Are you saying it's because of my sewer or is it because of all of us here? Hey, people, let's not play with that. Not everyone here is trained to be managers, and it seems to me that someone wanted to turn this country into these fake managers and that everyone lives by working in some office without having one trade. Serbia was maintained by the craft, primarily by the farmer who dealt with agriculture, and later by the craftsman who did something wrong. We've at least raised this country in our offices. So, of course, the market dictates and of course we have to make laws in order to be in line with the whole world and how it's done everywhere in a civilized world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23888	Thank you. The word has Natas Jovanovic one more time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23889	Just for a little while longer, I'll finish. We can go on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Here, I'll have the opposite, which has nothing to do with the acquired knowledge of dual education. In Kragujevac, we have an extraordinary violin maker. There is no such thing in Serbia, and they say in the surrounding countries. We have several craft workshops in Serbia, which have been defined to produce candy. They can't do it on the market, they're aware of it, but it's an old Serbian trade, because we have a strong food industry. We also have many family companies dealing with traditional crafts that their fathers or grandfathers had, but we can't because we currently have a deficit in some occupations, those trades mentioned by fellow Djukanovic, to educate our people, or children and future generations, and to say, you should learn that. Perhaps, Mr. Djukanovic, in 10 and 20 years, that's how it's going to be on our market, and that can happen, in buildings, modern elevators, so no masters are needed at all. What do you know during 20 and 30 years, I guess that's how strategic children are raised and educated, what will be needed on the market that is applicable, especially in these conditions that we have here? To be honest, I would like those economic branches in Serbia, which Joseph Broz and which the communists and self-government systems have destroyed by industrialization, where it was not needed in Serbia, which is mostly agriculture, to be a strategic branch, because we from agriculture, from tourism, from the food industry can live and create capital and new value and that our children live well and stay in beautiful Serbia and not run from the most beautiful Serbian villages.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23890	Thank you. The word is Mr. Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23891	From what I understand, and I wish I was wrong, that means we shouldn't be producing anything. We shouldn't be developing workers at all, and we don't need production plants at all. When we say we're going to live on agriculture, you know, that agriculture someone has to develop, and in order to develop it, you have to have a mechanism. That tractor has to be made, you know? That's a farm machine. Someone's got to build it. Who will if you don't have a craftsman? What are we talking about here? We want to put in place a system by which our production will be raised by the people of the office. That can't go anywhere. It didn't work anywhere. To develop the economy, you have to have developed crafts. I don't know what's going on here. I don't know what's going on here. I don't know what's going on here. You're saying we have to develop tourist services? I agree, yes, we have to develop tourist services, but you have to make a hotel, and that hotel has to be made by some craftsman. So I don't understand what this is about? Anyway, I'm glad that there's a big difference here between us that we're representing to introduce these and those that are absolutely against it and that they've introduced some kind of management system that's completely destroying this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23892	Thank you for the debate, you and Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has Alexander Chabrai, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23893	Thank you. I'm starting to worry if we're ever going to get to the Middle Education Act, as we skipped, unfortunately, the entire Higher Education Act, because we've wasted our time, at least as it was counted by the chairman. I'm starting to worry if we're going to discuss any other laws at all, but I'm going to put that aside now. Since all the amendments of the opposition come down to erasing, because we really all feel that this law should not be passed at all, I want to say something about this discussion whether we need this dual education or not. Please, I've been doing it, I've already said it when we talked about secondary education, in high school for almost 15 years, which, by the way, educated the staff of both three-year and four-year-olds, even adult education, etc. It is not true that so far they are not high-quality masters educated in high schools. That's not true. That's just not true. The technical school in Vračar, where I worked, had both traffic and electricity, and machine masters, etc., who went out with normal knowledge, and it is not true that it was something that was invented now and that never existed. Just don't talk about it, I beg you. Maybe people don't know, I don't think anyone can know, but it's like there's not even a three-year school here until today in Serbia, and that's just not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23894	Thank you. National MP Serbian Filipovic, as amended. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23895	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I see that some speak but they don't understand and they don't know what they're talking about, and it's perfectly fine to talk, to talk, to criticize the law, so maybe we find something out of that criticism, we try, here, my colleagues and I listen to something from the opposition for two days, but nothing makes sense. The only thing we've heard is, let's wipe out everything. Then let's wipe out education and school and have nothing and make this country a country of primitive, uneducated people and people who can't do anything. They spoke so cheaply to the labor force. Please, what are you going to do for a cheaper workforce than the one who's jobless, the one who has nowhere to work, can't feed the child, can't train him, can't buy him those textbooks that are full of the mouths of the opposition? Also, it's about people who have a hard time living. Who left 400,000 people out of work in this country? Who has found us to give a lecture – the tycoons, Dragan Gilas, the yellow company, and those who have little or much, do not yet know where they are or what they are? Is that the story? Is it you who should be giving a lecture here to SNS, Alexander Vukic and us who support both education and dual education and the development of the state? My colleague Djukanovic spoke of the economy. How do we develop anything if we don't have craftsmen, if we don't have people who can do the specific work we need in some place? How can anything be built and built in one country if you don't have craftsmen? It's pure demagogy, and it's the most ground floor possible, an opportunity to talk about dual education, the poor, and I don't know what. So why did you put these people in a position to be poor and not have? Of course, Serbia is not easy and dual education is something that needs to help us live far better and the minister has talked about it through examples of how much someone can as a craftsman with concrete knowledge in his hands to earn. It's above-average incomes and we're just fighting for as much as you know, but not as much as you know to steal that you have, but that as much as you can steal, you can spend so much time in prison, not in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23896	The word is "Verica Radet." Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23897	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this story of dual education, since it's been going on for about five years, reminds me of that one campaign when it's just been repeated – the office for quick answers, the office for quick answers. Why am I comparing these two associations? Because I think this law will end as well as the Office for Quick Answers, because there are no conditions for this law to be applied, that is, now the proposal, and soon I guess the law, neither will actually come to its application. We hear here, it is understandable, of course, that MPs who support the government have a different attitude towards governmental proposals than we do not support the government, nor the regime current. But don't explain, dear colleagues, to act like all of us who listen to you are dual-educated. Do not insult the intelligence of the MPs and citizens of Serbia. You're told one thing, you're turning the story on something completely different, and you understand that we're actually right. This is where they report saying, of course, everyone has a right to report to talk, people who have finished high school and are trying to get some new kids to attend higher education and go to work as soon as possible, to finish this dual school, to, as they promise, get hired as soon as possible. Neither of those jobs will be anything, nor will I say, of that dual education be anything, nor do you, gentlemen, have capacity in the economy. You well know what the whole of Serbia knows, that these daily-opened new plants of companies from the white world, that everyone here is for a certain time, that they are here until they spend money from subsidies they receive from the state, that in the harshest possible way they harass employees who work with them, most of them at a certain time, that the average of earnings in these foreign companies that you are rising below the minimum labour price. So it's all something that you know and you can't hide with good news in television logs. I listened to a man on a show last night talking, too, about dual education, and he says they're not important diplomas, that it's important what anyone can do. That's just not true. At the same time, he boasts of his diploma and his average grade. That's not fair again. So if it's not an important diploma, then don't show anyone that you have a degree, it's important that you know something that you're doing, if you know it eventually. On the same show, again, a man says that we will have problems one day as Bulgaria, and Bulgaria has a problem because there are no metallungarians. The highlight was when this guy on the show says that he's talking about people being educated, etc., that means that every high-school academic citizen in the country is investing some money and then there's a problem when that man wants to leave the country. Imagine that logic. It's just amazing. So people don't fit you this law. You're not good with the concept. You don't need the concept even if we had that economic support for a law like this. You've introduced a Chamber of Commerce with nothing to manage contracts that will be concluded between employers and children who will work there. Then one of your colleagues here says this is how you talked against the Labour Act, so now you see how far we've come with the Labour Act. And where are we? What are the results of the Labour Act? Which, because more than half of Serbia is working at a certain time to hold on to people's breath in such a way that at the time of the vote, the ballots for whom they voted or won't extend their labour contract? The fact that every day we have concrete examples in the media where someone has had a serious accident at work, where no technical protection is provided at work, where colleagues can't testify that they saw what they saw because they're going to get fired. Don't you know that's what happens in Serbia? Where do you people live? It happens, unfortunately, all of this happens in Serbia. You list all that we need, and then like us who are against dual education, you try demagogue stories to distract the public that we underestimate some occupations. That's absolutely not true. Every job that's done with honor and honesty is something that's absolutely acceptable. A man who does any work, if he does his job fairly, has all our respect. Anyone who went to school well, finished the trade and got a degree in auto mechanics, for example, has a lot of respect, a lot bigger than the one who bought the degree, then waved the diploma, and then talked about how dual education is good. Well, why not stay on that thing that looks like dual education, but rush to buy diplomas, PhDs, of course, all the academic titles? He's got that pen, you go to a quick food kiosk, and you say, "Give me that, give me that, and it's all going, it's no problem." What else have we been listening to here today? I heard it again last night, he says – because of the rapid reduction in the number of unemployed threatens us with the risk of deficits of some occupations. Imagine, we're afraid of speeding up, as you said, reducing the number of unemployed. And you think that's likely, that it's possible, that it's actually happening? Now, you might be able to replicate someone and read some statistics. You know, reading statistics doesn't have much of a closeness to reality. You know that, too. All you're trying to explain here today is a demagogue story that draws attention from real problems. One of the colleagues here also mentions, says – we want to develop economy and agriculture, and we don't want crafts. We want to develop agriculture and economy and we want graduate agronomists, graduate technologists, graduate engineers, graduate programmers, graduate electric engineers, graduate engineering engineers, graduate construction engineers. Now, that's what we, gentlemen dear, miss in Serbia. So only 6.5% of Serbian citizens have higher education. Let's see who's the one who's honest with you, who's going to tell their kid -- go, get that school through this dual education fast, and don't go to school to be an academic citizen? Are there any? They'll say here to support the law either on a show or on some newspaper, etc. Real life will never happen. Of course, there will always be children who will finish and trade and there have been, said someone here already, you here speak as if no one has ever finished any trade in Serbia. We have a lot of people who are also good masters, good experts, and today we have schools where the trade ends. You're now inventing hot water by introducing dual education, which will actually destroy. The point, Minister, is what we told you when we spoke in the principle debate, the EU, which makes you bring both these and these laws, wants only to have formally educated people in Serbia. That is why they also allow you to buy diplomas and to take appropriate posts with such diplomas, because the EU wants formally educated and essentially uneducated people in Serbia, so that it can manipulate whatever it wants with our future generations, which means the state of Serbia. We remind you, too, ministers, we were talking about shudders that destroyed several generations of people back then in the former Yugoslavia, certainly part of Serbia. You said this had nothing to do with the Swiss, it doesn't have to have a concept but this will also destroy some generations, unless God forbid this law really starts to apply as you announced, but fortunately in 2019, who lives as dead by then. So this law should be withdrawn, if you honestly think you're going to do something positive in the education system, in the field of education. You've made a lot of announcements, Minister, people have trusted you because you come from education yourself, because you have long experience and in your personal work, and don't let it happen, because someone has ordered someone to pass a law like this, to praise this law, to undo everything you've done well for the past 30 and how many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23898	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, don't be surprised by this. Whenever you want to reform something, you will encounter such discussions and such MPs, who will transfer everything that is your good wishes to a part of the field called politics and political interest. And I don't mind if that political interest, which they want to achieve, is common to the interest of Serbian citizens, but it is not. Let's get this straight, a colleague here said we should get the socialist self-government back on track. It was a joke, but unfortunately, our education system still works on those principles of the 1980s when the committee determined which factory to open and how which school they staffed for that factory would profile. The committee fell apart, but the schools stayed. Let's say, I see the purpose of having a high-tech school in Pogorevec, where I come from, which has an electric direction, a machine direction, a mining direction, etc., because I rely on the power system that belongs to the EPS. We also have a farm school, where you have warfare, fruit growing, but you also have the direction of food technology. Is there any kind of power plant in the firehouse that deals with food technology? You don't. As a consequence, we have food techs who have to look for work outside of Pogorec, and often outside Serbia, because Pogorec is not lonely in Serbia. So we have the expansion of people who have finished school, and they have no place to work because the economy has no need for such professions, and then we're going to swear that we're working in the interests of these people, some MPs here, and we're not looking, we don't see the fact that they don't have a job. When they don't have a job, they don't have a future. We're talking about how Western Europe is going to use them, and we're driving them out of Serbia because we can't give them a job here in Western Europe, so who's using who here? Who did that? To save the country, citizens, we have to make sure these people get to school and that they can get a job with their school. Those here who swear that Serbia's intellectual elite and those who don't vote for the DS are citizens of the second row, that's what's said in their stands, were building and opening private colleges, taking people's money, giving these same people diplomas that they can't do anything with right now. What was it? When we talk about whether someone should be a craftsman or a graduate engineer, so who can, whoever loves it, we're not going to determine it, but we can't even determine it, here, doesn't have to be a foreign investor, a Serbian investor who's going to work at his factory. We can't. You wouldn't do that in your own house. Can we not fit the interest of the state, and the interest of the state is that we have personnel and that we are training people who will find work tomorrow, regardless of the level of professional training and that we have employers who are, I say, Serbs, to employ Serbian workers, Serbian citizens in Serbian factories in Serbia, or are we going to turn all this upside down? Someone was turning upside down. First we lost factories, then we spent huge money on children who had no future without industry, and then someone showed up, and said, "You have a huge outflow of labour from Serbia," and when someone tries to reform something in Serbia, to start a process of re-industrating Serbia, you call it a traitor, he works for the benefit of Western companies, etc. Do you have any other solutions? Should we get the Socialist Self-Government back? The other Tito we can't get back, but I guess we got out of the '80s last century, people, to put things in place, so we're going to catch up with the fast-track offices as an example. Mr. Minister, the need for them has ceased, and now the building permit is now at the age of 18, the amount they've been giving us, it's in 45 days. Who's gonna hold that? It doesn't make sense anymore. Someone forgot if there were computers, they'd still be drawing chalk. I think this law should, first of all, the Serbian future, and these are children. Here, in the whole story and in the whole discussion, it's going into a single finding that's so twisted, so twisted and so shameless, that if someone goes to dual education that they're just going to be a craftsman, well, it's not a shame, but it's just a craftsman. It's not like that. No one's stopping anyone from going to school, but when it comes to science, I'm telling you, the one who was in dual education will be easier to graduate from college. That you know, because one who deals only with theory doesn't know that it's the same generator or the asynchronous engine and doesn't know it's the same thing. That's what you've turned it all around. He says we need a graduate electrical engineering engineer, but we need someone to connect the board to the fuses. Shall we get an electric engineer? No, it'll be a technician. We need it, I don't know what they've been up to, but each according to their own affinities, each according to their own desires, each according to their own needs. The state is here to give everyone the same chance. How many people are going to take advantage of it is essentially his thing, and don't give them that chance, which the state gives them, to spoil, because you're working against the interests of those you're supposed to be up against here. On the side of politics, but someone can't take care of the workers if there are 400,000 people left without a job, with letters and numbers, and no one can mock the results. It's small enough for you to get out on the street. Nothing's made up. Look around you, and you'll see why SNS and Alexander Vukic win by over 50 percent. Then we'll just take a leak on our pensions. This was reduced in 2014, you lost the 2016 election, you lost the election in 2017. Once you recognize the electoral defeat. I'll tell you one big secret about how you might be able to do it some time, but not you, but another, don't tell the truth to the citizens like you did while you were in power and while you're in opposition. Sooner or later they find out about it. You better tell them the truth. Maybe they're voting for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23900	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Rade, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23901	Very short. My colleague Arsic mainly addressed the other part of the opposition, not to me as a representative of the SRS, except where he mentioned that someone as a bad example lists the Office for Quick Answers and I am not going to deal with the Office for Quick Answers now, but I want to use this replica to ask the minister, we have not heard the answer – how much will those children who are working in dual education earn? The second question – will they be paid contributions to pension and disability insurance? That's not what this law says, and since it doesn't say, it won't. Kids are underage. God forbid, something happens to someone at work, because they're physically waving jobs or crafts, which aren't literally physical jobs, but they're working with machines, etc. - What happens if you don't give God that some kid stays disabled? Is he gonna have some kind of disability pension for that? Who's gonna take care of him? So there's a lot more serious problems here than what's now being said here as part of some pre-election campaign, just advertising, etc. We have serious questions from the Minister, and it would be good for the public to answer these questions, and I'm going to repeat what we talked about in the principle debate, this bill and tomorrow the law is a bait for poor families and children from poor families, who are angry that families can't buy them shoes, so they're going to say, "I'm finishing," and they're going to say, "I'm going to go there and what happens next, so I should at least get some money, because this way I don't even have lunch." So you haven't generally solved the problem, so you're trying to make the kids feed their parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23902	The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23903	Chairman, I've been trying to figure out the arguments for which we should also support this amendment and other amendments tabled by opposition MPs to this law, and I haven't done much. We've heard a lot of things today. I was only able to capture, I say, some data like this. Fraptuous is the way the opposition represents them. Namely, the DS people say -- so we don't need craftsmen, we don't need trained masters, because my God, economic growth in Serbia is 1.3%. It is an incorrect data, but even if it is true, if you compare it to a growth of -3%, how much was it at the time the DS managed Serbia and all those who came out of it, I think all other arguments are too high. My colleague said, someone with statistics will come forward, so she'll give us them. I know, statistics hurt. Statistics are an exact science in itself. It is the best picture of everything that is happening today in Serbia. Statistics say Serbia's unemployment rate in 2012 was 26%, and today it is slightly less than 12%. That's the information that hurts. That is the result and work of this government and the previous one led by current President Aleksandar Vukic. Says an opposition colleague that, my God, we've never had masters before. We did, right, we had masters it's true, but it's like it's a sin to perfect and train children who have decided to be craftsmen. That's what I couldn't understand from all these arguments of the opposition. He also says that we're creating cheap labour and that these people won't be able to finish high school. But, Minister, again, I remind Serbia's public that the Higher Education Act allowed us to study through work, so I don't see any obstacle for anyone to enter a university that already knows a trade. On the contrary, I see it as an advantage in his further training and training. However, it is no sin, I say, but it will have to face that scoffing attitude and face the mockery that comes from the DS, which at this point consists of so-called. The elite. It's the only thing they're going to have to endure these future craftsmen. They also said it was no use, that foreign companies would go and who knows what would happen. I'll tell you one counter argument. You know, Ministers, you were at Subotica, Ivan Saric Technical School and Saturday School of Politic Engineering. I also have to thank the people of that school for performing the first generation of 60 graduates in the dual education system. The people stayed, but everyone else stayed to work in Subotica, in Simmons, in the Norma Group, in "Amatek". At this point, the political school is educated by 60 other high school students who have already been offered contracts in the furniture industry "Baimok", the furniture industry "Future", the furniture factory in Bačka Topoli. It's certainly worth it. I tried to make one comparison and compatriation of all the arguments that the opposition is referring to, I guess, in the inability to make any valid argument, it even makes false arguments, I make one comparison, and I show the public of Serbia why it is good for the National Assembly to accept this bill that you put before us, honourable ministers. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23904	Thank you. The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23905	I really want to say after several times that the opposition criticises this law because it is an elite and because we have something against educating craftsmen in Serbia that this is not a law that educates craftsmen. Read the explanation. The minister says – learning through work is not for students free of manual tasks, but for programming, designing and handling smart machines that are part of modern modern manufacturing processes in companies. You here are turning harder to believe that Serbia does not need craftsmen and craftsmen, that these people are less valuable. That's not true. We are against this because we want to create a society that will give everyone a chance, every young man, to take advantage of the talent and potential he has in him. In our opinion, this is not the way in which Serbia is in the economic situation. One more thing, since I see everyone repeating it as parrots here, about the alleged decline in unemployment rate from 26% to 11%, to direct you to the statement by the Director of the Republic Statistics Office, who publicly said that, due to the change in methodology 2014 and 2015, it is impossible to compare the 2016 data with the 2017 data.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23906	Thank you. Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23907	You want me to finish? Yes, thank you. That data is incomparable. We can talk about absolute numbers. It's been reduced in five years. For 100,000 people, it's less on the desk.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23908	You're out of time, colleague Đurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23909	What time's up? I answered. I have time for a parliamentary group. I've got time...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23910	You're out of time, pal. That's why I warned you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23911	What time don't I have? As head of the parliamentary group, I don't have time? Seven more minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23912	Nenad Konstantinovic is authorised.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23913	He's here. I'm sorry. I didn't know he was here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23914	Nothing. No problem. We're moving on. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23915	It is, and when that methodology is changed so that it is in line with the European one, then it's no good again. And when it turns out, right by this Statistics Office, that when one and another methodology is calculated, it is again incomparably better than what was left for Serbia in 2012, again something is not clear. I don't understand that strange and surreal logic that what's better today can get in the way of someone. Is it possible that someone is so selfish that if it turns out that I didn't know better than what it is today, that every time he has to be negative, he has to criticise what's hard for a reasonable man to criticize? I really don't understand it. It's unacceptable to me. They say -- because of the economic situation in which Serbia is today, this bill is not good. Be careful, because of the economic situation. Now, what does a man take as a message? It's gonna cost the state, and it's not easy for her today. And how's that gonna cost? Did employers themselves express their desire to participate in this? They did. Have they accepted that they themselves bear part of the costs, and material, but also these financial benefits that are provided for the students? They did. So, what do we give up to a significant extent without it literally going to business entities? Aren't we going to save from the other side right through the funds that schools invested, how many people had opportunities, right through the funds that the state was giving to equip some workshops there, some working cabinets, that some material was being purchased? So what's unacceptable about our economic situation, what's that, well, argument? Those who tried a little while ago to sound terribly concerned about the fate of the state, therefore they critically collapsed on how it is today and what it is, well, achieved. So these 140,000 jobs that are secured during that period that some can't live with, that they can't reconcile with, that's that difference and that's that reality. Some were better off with Dragan Gilas, the yellow tycoon on his boards and boards, I understand that. That they miss and miss, that's true, but if you ever worry about the issue of these subsidies that many still talk about, and they're hard, they're sick of reading about them and one single sentence, you'll see that there's one thing that's true -- there were contentious programs. Then, if you scratch a little deeper, you'll see when. Just in the pre-election period of 2012, it was wonderful, great, bright, and that yellow tycoon and those who served him with all their strength, and these statistical indicators, which still cannot compare with the good condition he is today. If someone misses it, let their personal need remain, let them not burden Serbia with which it is going better today than in their time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23916	Thank you. The word is by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Here you go, colleague Manojlovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23917	I just wanted to get involved, one part of my colleague Orlic has already mentioned, but this kind of discussion shows one state in Parliament, as well as in general in Serbia, that there is on one side the dark side that keeps showing that she does not care and that she does not care about the 400 and more than 400,000 workers who have been fired, not about the many companies that have been shut down in their time, but, behold, today they do not see anything good and positive in this. There is a point in our difference, because they see all things dark, which in all things find something that is bad, so we say – this enables young people to get the best, adequate education, and then they say – and what if someone gets hurt, what if someone gets hurt, what if something happens to someone? And they find something ugly, something dark, and there's the difference between this part of the hall and that part across the street, because we want to develop Serbia, because we want to find something good, positive. And it is better for them that in Serbia there are those 30-40-year-olds, who will finish some college and lose their jobs and depend on parents or most often from some pensioners in Serbia, before allowing someone to get a job after high school. This also shows that they are not paying attention to young people in Serbia, and young people, as one of the main problems, point out late parent isolation. Just a dual education, in such an adequate way, along with an employer who will guarantee, here, and in Kruševec, where I am from, there are already two departments of mechanics who will be educated and scholarshipd and who will get the job. After that, these young people will be able to stand alone, and if they do not want to continue their studies, they will be able to do so anyway. Thank you, very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23918	Thank you, colleague Manojlovich. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23919	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I won't be long. I won't be long, because it's all clear, but we've got some things to repeat and set lessons, because if someone doesn't want to learn, we know why they don't want to. Because he was comfortable with a time when he didn't have to learn, where nothing could be known and become richer and richer. They don't see a chance in dual education. They don't see a chance at change, they don't see a chance at reform, because if it's all the same, it's an opportunity, that if it's all the same, they might plant some of their thiefic ideas back on the citizens. If something changes, if people live better, well, then it doesn't give them a chance to go back to the back of all of us. Therefore, Serbian citizens watching today's transmission have sent me countless messages, both to me and to my colleagues, and supported by all the law on dual education and reforms implemented by the minister of education and what the SNS is doing today in Parliament and in the state. I mean, why does it bother someone to reduce unemployment? It's a shame because there are no new voters for life-long demagogues. Why does someone have a problem with the pay increase in the private sector? Because it popularizes people to work in the private sector and open their own private companies. Why does anyone have a problem with the private sector's incentive? Well, because they'll never be able to get their party personnel into that same public sector again and to support their non-employees, their lezilebovics. It will never happen in Serbia again. One last thing, they see no light from their blindness, but it is important that 60% of Serbian citizens who support President Aleksandr Vukic and SNS see this light and that these citizens are getting better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23920	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23921	The Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, since the former regime should have passed a law on dual education 14 years ago, and has not, has brought Serbia's education to the lowest possible extent in the history of Serbia's education and pedagogical ideas, and the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, has initiated the adoption of this dual education law, which represents the first-class teaching and education reform step of the SNS and the Ministry of Education and its minister, Mladen Sarcevic, for the past 14 years. For saving time, I'm giving up the reasoning of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23922	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Marijan Risticevic answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23923	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've already talked about the tailor Taji. We are so in a deficit with tailors that the president of the former regime's party had to from New York Avenue to bring a tailor to sew expensive suits together with Miskovica and Matic, along with tycoons, and at that time he staged a dual education in the military residence of a fashion magazine. Now I'm going to talk about whoever's delivering me information on him, he's not here right now, from that same party of the former regime. So how much is it worth to be a waiter? The famous Maldivac, the Duke of Maldives, who flew in the winter, in the winter summers, and summers, to be more expensive, is their fancy, therefore, spent on a summer of 25,000 euros in winter, around New Year's Eve.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23924	Go back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23925	Of course. The dual education, and so many tips to the waiters, and there's a 1,500-euro overnight night, so much for the former regime's party to the waiters and chefs, and for that it's worth the dual education, should have a trade, so many tips left that they later opened their private hotel and private restaurant. Of course. The dual education, and so many tips to the waiters, and there's a 1,500-euro overnight night, so much for the former regime's party to the waiters and chefs, and for that it's worth the dual education, should have a trade, so many tips left that they later opened their private hotel and private restaurant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23926	Thank you. The word of the messenger of the people is Alexander Jerkov, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23927	Thank you, Vice President. Article 158, since we are Vice President Milicevic, here he is sitting next to you, so he will be able to confirm, at the beginning when we were interested in the way we measured the time to discuss the details, informed us that at any time we could get a notice of how much time was left and how time was measured. Now, please let us know if we're working on any calculations where someone's counting manually or what it says in the e-parliament is correct? Are these statements of the MPs who have proposed to place the marks, by the way, in places where, according to the spell of the Serbian language, the marks must not stand, do they and when they report that they are giving up the interpretation of the amendment, does that time count as two minutes that they have spoken or counted only what they have said? Because the electronic parliament only accounts for the time they've spent really speaking about amendments, and from what the president told us last time, we've suggested that every announcement, not her, but that someone who's in the service, every announcement, even if the MP has reported to say, I'm giving up the debate, that it counts for two minutes. So I'm asking you to let us know how this session counts, whether it's an electronic parliament or an account of yours, and if it's yours? So, how much time do we have to discuss the amendments?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23928	My colleague Jerkov, I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, because I don't measure the time. (Alexandra Jerkov: I beg your notice.) ) Yes, you can freely inquire at technical services, they measure time, as you know. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement about this, even though I couldn't do any harm to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Members of the 2nd Amendment were together submitted by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Marija Janjusevic, Dr Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The word has been delivered by the National MP, Master Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23929	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, Article 2 which determines the concepts, among other things, under the number of 4 terms of instructors, under the number of 5 concepts of learning coordinators through work, what was once actually a professor who performed practical teaching. We have suggested that points 4 on the instructor, the words "and it is responsible for students to acquire the competences prescribed by standard classification" are deleted, and that those words be transferred behind that former professor of practical teaching, where I, at some point, worked for 15, 16 years as a professor of practical teaching. There are two reasons why we did it. I got an explanation here why you turned it down. In your explanation, you are calling for an education development strategy. We were already talking, when there was a debate in principle, what you were saying about the education strategy in Serbia, there was much we agreed on. There are two reasons why we have proposed this amendment. First of all, we wanted to restore trust in those teachers who were educated to be professors of practical teaching, at a time when I was taking practical teaching in the dental direction. It was supposed to be the face that graduated from college. We think that face is much more competent than an instructor who has 40 hours of training. It may not be that much of a professional profession, but another reason might be an even greater fear of why we wanted to transfer it from the field of the Chamber of Commerce, which will license and determine that instructor, because the Chamber of Commerce is a factical association of some employers. I was telling you about the elements for corruption that are unsanitary, and for example, what I was telling you about the famous GIZ, here I was at the King's house this weekend, and I got information that GIZ can be of those six million euros, which he gave us, funds local television to advertise enrolment in a high school of interest welders. Mr. Minister, do you think you and your associates can convince me that it is a German pain and concern for a Serbian student or an absolute German interest in a given interest that will be achieved through the Chamber of Commerce. That is why we believe that this amendment was absolutely meaningful and the Serbian Movement of Dveri has given amendments to this law that are not "expunged", because we felt that we needed something in high school education to change. We're not sure if that's the best way, but the intention was correct. But obviously, for some reason, all our amendments fell under the amendment's "expunge" group and one series of arguments the ministry gave and they were deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23930	Thank you, colleague Vesovic. The National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic together. The word is Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23931	Thank you, Vice President. Therefore, Article 3 speaks of the principles handled by those involved in the dual education process. So each of these principles is in direct contrast to what this law is going to produce. You say – professionalism, ethics, career leadership and employability, availability, relevance, lifelong learning, right of choice, equal opportunities, all that this law will produce is in direct contrast to what you have set up, as principles on which participants of dual education should function. When you talk about professionalism, can you tell me exactly what is professional and ethical, let's take point 4, in sending 15-year-olds to work in some pay factory that is 70% of the minimum wage, falsely convincing them that this is a guaranteed way to work and falsely promising them that if they do, then some of the circumstances fail to work with that employer, they will then be able to start their business. Career leadership and employability. What career management when it's based on the false promises you're offering them. Accessibility, relevance, passability, access to work, lifelong learning, what will, a lifetime will learn to twist one screw. I mean, simply, those occupations that these kids are going to be hired on aren't the occupations that guarantee this. Right of choice, that's what I said in principle, that one of the most unethical things that you're telling us here, that no one is going to make those kids go to dual education, but she, my God, is going to choose to go to the profiles of dual education herself. So that's what you're doing in a situation where these kids, you promise them first, you said yourself that it's for some kids who don't like to learn much, so now I don't like to learn very much, they promise me some pay, they falsely assure me that I'll be able to get a job after that at that firm, that I have a secure job. In doing so, my family is probably living in some kind of misery, and these tens of thousands of dinars come in handy. How many kids do you think these kids are going to go to dual education profiles just because they get tens of thousands of dinars a month? How many of those kids when they're 14 or 15 years old, cheated on by your false credentials, will decide to enroll those schools, and then after they realize that there's nothing to do, and there's no way they can start their own business, or have the opportunity to continue their education, to realize that you've cheated on them. What a free choice we're talking about when it comes to children of 14, 15 years of age who you give false promises and ultimately equal opportunities. If this law does anything, it kills equal opportunities in society, because all those kids who enroll in dual education condemn to be very poorly educated, very poorly paid and without being able to continue schooling. This law, not only will it not undo the social differences that exist among the students, but it will bury them in even greater differences and in such trenches that they will never again be able to come out of, and all for the expense of foreign employers, false investors who now have tens of thousands of euros and conditions, which are not getting anywhere in the world, now, here we are also offering this extra benefit, which is the free workforce of our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23932	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23933	For a few reasons, ladies and gentlemen. First, because there is obviously no difference between work and learning through work. I guess that's more than clear here. Secondly, because you're asking legitimate questions just because someone who asks them what-what's not clear here. For example, the question -- who knows how many kids and how many kids? That's a great question. Somehow I have a strong feeling that whoever asked this question has no idea how many children are even covered by these programs, or how much it could be, or how interested the company is in participation, or how much capacity there will be on these programs. Something tells me there's no real idea of numbers. That would be another reason. Third reason, because of the story of tens of thousands per job. Somehow I have a strong feeling that there is no idea how much the average subsidy per job is, or what I asked at the very beginning of the day -- how many of these subsidisation programs have been approved by domestic and how many foreign legal entities since the beginning? For all these reasons, I can only repeat -- let's leave these empty stories aside, because the empty story is equally empty no matter how many times it can happen again, and these amendments are not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23934	Thank you. The word is Olivera Pesic. Here you go, colleague Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23935	Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers with co-workers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I suggest that this amendment is not accepted because these amendment MPs of the Democratic Party are seeking to delete a member of the law that is in fact the basis of this law, with the reason that, I paraphrase, the result of the introduction of dual education, will be the schooling of children for jobs that do not exist, as well as the creation of a cheap workforce. Dear Vice-President, jobs in the Republic of Serbia and how there are, and every day, Serbia, headed by our President, Aleksandr Vukic, is working to create or provide conditions for new jobs. The time I have available two minutes after this amendment is simply not enough for me to count all cities and municipalities in the Republic of Serbia where new factories or new production plants have been opened, or new jobs during the SNS government along with its coalition partners. The Serbian Progressive Party is fighting for every new job. Every new job matters. Dual education does not create cheap labour, as the amendment puts it, but encourages better integration of economy and education at all levels. Cheap labour is just created by not introducing dual education, or when students are not allowed to gain knowledge through practical teaching. As for the last sentence in the explanation given by DS, that it would not allow generations of future students to be ruined because of someone's whim, I would just like to say that DS had the opportunity to lead this country and take care of young generations, and how and how they led the state were assessed by citizens in the previous elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23936	Thank you. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23937	Thank you. I would like first of all to point out that the proposed amendment should absolutely not be accepted. It should not be accepted precisely because it may best show all the hypocrisy of individual MPs who today proposed amendments throughout the day that almost had absolutely nothing to do with the provisions of the member to which it applies. What do I want to point out? Article 3 The draft law on dual education, which regulates the principles of dual education, is, in fact, the essence of this law, because it puts the protection of the best interests of students at the centre of dual education through the obligation of all those involved in the process of education to worry that this best interest of students through the implementation of any three-year-old, whether four-year dual education is respected. Of course, I want to point out that for the Serbian Progressive Party the work, knowledge, education, education that is functional and education that is applicable to the categories of values. Also, I want to point out that the second day here is being manipulated by the term - children. I must point out that the proposal for a dual education law treats students. Also, I must point out that a 15-year-old person has the right to choose the desired profession according to his abilities and proclivities. Also, I would like to point out that up until now a group of students have been assigned to three years of education, but the proposal for a law on dual education is in fact creating a legal framework in which the best way to protect the interests of these students and to give students the opportunity to acquire knowledge that will fit their real competences, i.e. to acquire functional education that will be applied to the employer, whether he is a foreign investor, whether he is our investor, or perhaps use this functionality of knowledge and education to launch private entrepreneurship. I must point out that knowledge and knowledge of entrepreneurial competences is one of the eight basic skills necessary for life and work in a knowledge society, and the Serbian Progressive Party believes that the 21st century is knowledge and that knowledge should be invested through education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23938	Thank you. The word is Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23939	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I consider this Article 3. The bill should remain exactly the way it is and how it's defined. Why do I think that? Because the important factors that are intended to make leverages in the realisation of this law here are figures, and these are educational institutions and economic operators, businesses, the Chamber of Commerce, local self-government. In fact, local self-government is recognised here as an inevitable factor in the development of its environment, so that local self-government units have their own representatives in the school board of professional schools and thus will affect the making of the most important decisions that apply, among other things, to the profiles in dual education. In fact, domestic and foreign investors, by arriving in places where they intend to develop their business, are directly focused on local self-government authorities. On the other hand, local self-government, of course, is important to develop production in their environments, to open factories, to employ young people. It is Article 3 of this Bill proposal, paragraph 2, which discusses the establishment of a local social partnership to demonstrate the needs of its environment for individual staff and, moreover, to direct investors' profile towards the natural and human resources of the region concerned. I had the opportunity to listen to representatives of companies participating in the promotion of dual education in all major cities in Serbia. I got the impression, and the citizens also got the impression that they wanted to get started as soon as possible and start a dual education and that thus trained young people, trained in their companies on specific jobs and jobs, were later employed in their companies after schooling. So, at the recently held White Palanca tribune, the representatives of a textile company arriving in the city expressed their readiness to participate in a joint venture on dual education in every respect, so that after schooling young people from the region, they could get jobs in their company, because they did not come to stagnate, but came to develop their jobs and to develop markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-31-0.u23940	Thank you very much, colleague. This speech ended today's work. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
