ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18554	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 140 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 142 MPs are present in the hall, and I find that we have conditions for further work. Dear People's Messengers, I ask you to pay our respects to the deceased Messenger Jova Ostojić for a minute of silence. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented today from being attended by the next MPs Marko Djurisic and Nenad Konstantinovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for the purpose of the need for the National Assembly to complete the choice on the agenda points within the time limits laid down. You were presented the minutes of the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly and the minutes of the 9th Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 24 and 26 June 2017. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 versus – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 29. I agree that the Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 24 and 26 June 2017. I am voting on the minutes of the 9th Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 28 and 29 June 2017. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no vote 29. I agree that the Assembly adopted the minutes of the 9th Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, held on 28 and 29 June 2017. You have received the resignation of MP Branko Ruzic as a National MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, as regards the examination of this resignation, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, and proposes that the National Assembly within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same law determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. Also, the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues found that the appearance of the death of MP Jovo Ostojic was the case set out in Article 88(1) of the Law on the selection of MPs, so I suggest that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same law, determine the termination of the mandate of this MP. According to Article 88(1), points 2 and 8 and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, finds that the term of office had ceased, before the time to be elected, to MP Branko Ruzic, on the day of his resignation, and to MP Jovo Ostojić, on the day of his death. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of seats in the National Assembly will be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, which was convened at the request of 157 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have also been sent to you for the maintenance of an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, with a certain agenda contained in that request. The following Dn e v n i r e d 1 is specified. Selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee, from lists submitted by authorised proposings: - President of the Republic - Supreme Cassation Court - State Audit Institute - Social and Economic Council - jointly the Association of Journalists of Serbia and the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia; 2. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Fiscal Council, which was submitted by the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds; 3. Proposal for a decision on the selection of the Citizens' Protectors submitted by the Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Article 2(2). 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint single search be carried out on the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Committee, from lists submitted by authorised proposings, the Proposal for a decision to elect members of the Fiscal Council, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Proposal for a decision to elect the Citizens' Protectors who had submitted the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Does the MP Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – 15 abstentions – no, no vote 22. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session by Janko Lazarevic, Deputy President of the Supreme Cassation Court, Radoslav Sretenovic, President of the State Auditing Institution, Dusan Petrovic, Secretary of the Social-Economic Council and Vladimir Radomirovic, president of the Association of Journalists of Serbia. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency's Committee, from lists submitted by authorised applicants, a proposal for a decision to elect members of the Fiscal Council, which has been submitted by the committee responsible and a proposal for a decision on the selection of the Citizens' Protectors who have submitted the committee responsible. Do the proposings, or the proposing representatives, want a word? No, I don't. ( b) Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18555	I thank the president. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests, will look back on the agenda point, which is actually the most powerful one, and this is the decision to elect the Citizens' Protectors, who in public draws the most attention. In fact, we waited five months to find an adequate candidate for the ruling majority, and I was convinced that a five-month search for a believing, legal gromada, for the protection of human and minority rights would be successful and we would have such a candidate. However, we had this literally in front of our noses in the image of the current Civil Protection Officer, Mr Milos Jankovic, who I believed would also be the official candidate of the board of directors and which the New Party and Parliament Club of Independent MPs would certainly support. But that didn't happen. As MPs, we have received a proposal from a man named Zoran Pasalić, with a biography full of eight pages and in which we found nothing that meets the conditions of the Civil Protection Act for his choice, except for one single one, which is that he is a graduate lawyer. Three of the following key conditions, which say the candidate should have at least 10 years of experience in legal affairs, which are important for performing the tasks of the Protector of Citizens. Then, the condition third to possess high moral and professional qualities. The fourth condition that the Citizens' Protector has observed experience in protecting citizens' rights. The candidate of the parliamentary majority and the ruling majority does not meet, so we have a candidate who meets one of the only conditions under the Law on the Protector of Citizens and nothing more. If you carefully read the biography on the basis of which we need to make a decision on our statement, you will see that out of those eight printed pages, we barely on half of the pages have formal data concerning the education of this gentleman, where I have learned from the media that he has studied law school for 13 years, it does not say here, however, but it is claimed that this is true. It is this legal gromada that has studied for 13 years, so three times longer than it is studied in basic studies of law schools, and the other seven sides are dedicated to his so-called so-called. A special experience, where we have dozens and dozens of seminars, projects, organization of activities that have absolutely nothing to do with qualifications to run for the Protector of Citizens. We have these 16 events, where it writes the co-ordinatorial and organisational experience of Zoran Pasalić as part of the engagement at the Association of Judges for Violations. I'd just like to draw attention not to discuss the competition, for example, for a corporate job where a good organizer, event or event coordinator is sought, but the Citizens' Protector. Sixteen such events, if it's a qualification for a future public defender in the field of human and minority rights, you're afraid that you missed the topic or that whoever wrote this biography didn't know what this candidate was proposing. Then it is said 44, I was not hated to count, 44 seminars at which Zoran Pasalić participated, and of those 44 seminars there were only two of which he was a lecturer. So 42 seminars are listed in this man's biography as some representative experience in the area, so it should be, to protect the human and minority rights of this future Protector of citizens, without any evidence that he even participated in them. We have no confirmation at all, no certificate, no diploma that this person participated in these seminars at all, even in the form of a party. So, even for REM members, the body that decided on candidates in this assembly required that evidence be delivered and confirmation of candidates that they had participated in professional seminars in their special experience. That's not what happened in this case. We don't have any confirmation that even this is true. What he does not write in his biography, however, which is true and that is what he himself has declared, and it is, in fact, known to the general public, is something that is precisely in line with the conditions for selecting the Protectors under the competent law and why I believe that he does not meet the basic conditions. It is, for example, a condition of three to possess high, moral, and professional qualities. So, candidate Pasalic, as far as his moral qualities are concerned, is known to the general public for his participation in the Insider series, which dealt with problems in football, fans, crime, of course, which follows this area of social and public life in the Republic of Serbia, where Zoran Pasalic himself said he saw no problem in sitting as a criminal judge in the assembly of sports clubs with fans who are charged with violations of weapons without permission and for various other serious violations. So I put it in the camera and they heard it, of course, our citizens. What he may be able to run, in the manner of this ruling majority of Zoran Pasalic for the seat of the Citizens' Protector, is possibly a change of uniforms in every sense, so it starts with sports clubs, when he himself said that when he realized he could do nothing as a member of the Red Star Sports Club Assembly, he had a nice transition to the "Partizan" football club in the same status of members of the Assembly. The same thing happened on his professional agenda. I will also remind the promoters, believing that they may not have all the information they should have, because I am sure that before the National Assembly and the MPs they would not go out with such a candidate, that she was so criticised, condemned, defamed, defiled, defiled reform of the judiciary that was carried out in 2010 precisely on the highest judicial rank raised by Zoran Pasalic. Zoran Pasalic, according to official data, made the most progress in the 2010 judicial reform phase when he became president of the Criminal Court of Appeals. So, this is the person who is the paradigm of this judicial reform that this parliamentary majority, the ruling majority criticises on all bells, and here is now the opportunity for itself to run for the person who, I would say in a language understandable to all, profited the most or one of the most profitable and made the most progress in this judicial reform in 2010. What further leads us from the New Party, and colleagues from the Independent MPs' club not to support this proposal, but to appeal once again to the promoter to withdraw it, because there is plenty of time until August of the month when to choose a new Citizens' Protector, is to take another good look at and study the qualifications of Zoran Pasalić for the function of the Citizens' Protector. Compared to the examples I gave his participation in football clubs, silence and ignoring the fact that he is participating with fans, with people who are charged with violations and other serious crimes, we are concerned that, if Zoran Pasalić is elected, he would interpret the law here, for example, in a specific case that has plagued our country for several days, which is the case of consecutive killings of women in social work centres, so in state institutions. Would such a Protector of citizens interpret the right to initiate proceedings and examine whether the state institution, or the authority of the administration, was wrong about the citizens he was supposed to protect, to help them? Were there any work gaps? Was there a timely way of reacting so that women’s heads would not fall in front of violent men, otherwise from previously known for their violent record? Or the candidate and Protector, like Zoran Pasalic, would turn on that head, ignore this situation, applaud the minister and the previous one, especially, who is also the most responsible for this negligence, Alexander Vulin, since he cannot oversee their work and pretend that it is not happening or that nothing happened. So it's not just a matter of formal qualifications, even though the formal conditions of this candidate don't meet, I'm saying, except that he's a graduate lawyer. The key question is that such a person would interpret the right, especially in such a sensitive area as the protection of human and minority rights, and as you know, and we all swear on the European path of this country, Chapter 23, in the negotiation process capitalically and extremely important for this country, necessary for the opening of any subsequent chapter, pay particular attention to human and minority rights. In all the bilateral meetings I have had the opportunity to lead and talk to colleagues of European parliamentarians or EU representatives, they have always explicitly insisted on independence and on empowering and strengthening independent, independent bodies, such as in this particular case the Citizens' Protector. Not that I fear that this is impossible with the choice of Zoran Pasalić, I am sure it is impossible, which his black on white biography proposed not only to the citizens, but can be read very simply on Parliament's website, therefore, is available to everyone, it can be concluded. I am further concerned with what is not written, except what we have learned from the media, and that it is absolutely proof of this man's intricacies to deal with such serious issues. I'm not questioning his good or less good experience in the violation of court practice and I'm guessing that for a long number of years and working in that area of law, someone who deserves attention in that part of law. But there was really absolutely no tangent here, except, here, to be precise, coordinate and organise a seminar called "Violence in Family Practices of Violent Courts", which is actually a seminar of the Women's Autonomous Centre. So he was only there as organizer and coordinator, not participant, participator, supporter, etc. It's just so there's no confusion, when someone takes to read the biography, so he sees something about domestic violence, so he thinks, "Here, he's got something to do with it." No, he's got nothing to do with it. It says decadently that he just coordinated and organized this experience. I'm sorry that, as in some previous biography, here's a similar point we also have in a united debate, and that's a choice for members of the Anti-Corruption Committee, we in the biography have the most irrelevant information about these candidates. In one case, we had an entire marriage opus of candidates, which was proposed for the Anti-Corruption Committee. So, from when she got married, when she had children, what was a husband, what was a father, when who retired, who died, where he worked, where the kids were employed. So the two sides, I remember very well, had for this candidate, where we had more family profile than professional, educated, professional profile. In fact, he may not have had anything to fill out the professional profile of Zoran Pasalić in the area of human and minority rights. I totally understand that, but I don't understand how the ruling majority could allow itself to go out with this candidate after five months of searching, as I said, for a legal gromad and for someone who should be entrusted with the protection of human and minority rights, who may be a top-notch criminal judge, but a protector of citizens in such a sensitive society, in such a fragile democracy as in the Republic of Serbia, that is what we would nominally say, that I'm not talking about all other side effects, a completely clear introduction to autocracies and dictatorship that is in place, the Protector of citizens should be the backbone of anyone who can't stand up to his rights in front of the state, in front of public authorities, that he knows that there is certain that there is some protector who will help him not only use his right, but to protect him, if he's threatened by the state. I'm sure that won't happen to this candidate. I am also sure that the ruling majority is not up to this point in order to withdraw this proposal. But listen to the presentations and other colleagues and please pay attention, as much as possible, think again, there is time, we are not in a chat room, if you've waited five months, you can wait another week and two, pulling this proposal, calling for a new session and trying to find truly the Protector of citizens to measure each citizen, not to measure SNS and its coalition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18556	The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic. Excuse me, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18557	The Honorable President, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, the dignity of the Assembly has been injured. It's been injured on several occasions. I don't normally answer my phone in the Rules of Procedure, one when I really have to, but it's become unbearable to listen to a pay phone that just spoke, especially when it comes to morale. I think words like dictatorship and similar expressions that she used earlier, as well as flat-rate estimates and falses, are something that should not still be heard in this house, especially when she comes by her mouth already some time, but from a letter which, while she was a regional secretary, shared money, so it's terrible to describe. All those involved in politics are enough to look at the distribution of money during its term of office and you will understand where children distracted in development were cut off for financial resources, which were in the lowest form.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18558	Member of the Commission, I cannot go into the qualifications of the Members of Parliament under any violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18559	I just have to say because it's about a person who's constantly talking about morale here and keeps teaching someone. I understand you don't know this information and you couldn't react, but as an MP, I feel obliged to say that it's enough that those who have been totally immoral speak here and give us a lecture on morality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18560	Thank you, MP. I couldn't hurt Article 107. If you want, we'll vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. No, I don't. After the injury of the Rules of Procedure, the word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18561	Thank you. I advertise Article 106, or the incorrect information that the previous speaker made, trying to advertise the Rules of Procedure, but actually entering the replica. I'd just like to ask you next time, except for the need to distract him that there are some state bodies that would be dealing with me especially if I ever broke the law, especially in time...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18562	Article 106 does not talk about it, it says that it can only talk about the agenda point, that the speaker can only interrupt the president of the National Assembly, etc. So we can't even vote for this breach of the Rules of Procedure because Article 106 doesn't correspond to the essence of the Rules of Procedure's injury. You've replicated. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18563	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, it is very interesting of someone who illegally shared the money "Slogs" from Temerin and "Dinama 1945" from Pančev to listen to them comment on the actions of others within sports clubs, so I guess he recognizes himself and thinks that what she was doing is done by others when they are found as members of the management of a particular club. Of course that's not true. What has been defined by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives to propose Mr Zoran Pasalić, and to exclude Mr Jankovic as an option for thinking is in fact a desire to break the continuity of an absolute abuse of the function of the Protector for political purposes. Mr. Milos Jankovic never fenced himself against Mr. Sasa Jankovic's unequivocally clear political action at the time of his protection. During a long period of time, he thus excluded himself as a serious topic of thought. It is very interesting that the arguments turn out as the speaker responds, what is important is that the career as the city judge for the violations of Mr Zoran Pasalic began in 2003, when the then republican government elected him to the post. Its progress to v.d. The elders for the city's justice for violations in Belgrade in 2008, followed by the elders as the city's judge for crimes was simply covered by his work results, which is that on average more than 90% of the decisions he made in his work were confirmed. What more do you want, what more should he say about a lawyer's ability to do business? It is obvious that even in 2010 or at the end of 2009, when, wherever they could throw out the best and most frequent judges from the Serbian judiciary, they could not move Mr Pasalic from his post, not choose him, because simply his results were such that even they, even though they were unscrupulous, did not have the courage to do so. Confirmation that Mr Pasalic was doing his job as the city's judge for crimes, that he did nothing wrong in 2013 and 2010, respectively, first and then in 2013 when he was elected president of the Belgrade Criminal Court of Appeal. These are the basic reasons for which the committee was run when it concluded. So all of this clearly points to one of his stability, that he is not politically colored in any way and that we can expect that from the function of the Guardian of Citizens he will not turn it into a political base, abuse it for any needs, any parties, any parties, or even for his own. Thank you. (Marinika Tepic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18564	I didn't see the basis for the replica. You spoke as authorized in front of the group? (Marinika Tepic: I am mentioned as the province's secretary. ) No, there was nothing in accordance with Article 104. Is any of the authorities coming forward or should we move on to the list? Don't, please, put me in a position to ask every ten minutes if any MPs want to speak at all. The word is made by the People's MP Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18565	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, today all the personal proposals that are on the agenda that we should talk about, today we're actually talking about the rule of law. We are talking about human rights, about freedoms, about respect, about the independence of institutions, about their importance, about the problems that citizens face, about all those areas that poison our society that hit democracy, which prevent us from becoming an orderly democratic society to become a member of the EU. I don't think there's anything more important than that and it's disturbing the way this session started, the importance this topic deserves, requires special attention from us. You know, society defends itself, and democracy is strengthened by strengthening independent institutions. Independent institutions, state authorities, councils, which we are talking about today, on average, record a decade of our work. The first half of their work marked the struggle to establish institutions, fight for independence, fight at all to act as independent institutions, bodies, councils, and unfortunately the second half of their mandate marks an unremembered blow to their independence. This power, I must remind you all, has begun its mandate by hitting independent institutions. In 2012, the government, as its first move, took over the governor of the National Bank and set it up, elected here in the Assembly a frozen party official of the SNS and announced on that day that this authority would look like. Unfortunately, according to Serbian citizens, we have been living this reality for all these five years. A dangerous power that strikes human rights, which abuses, in whose policy focus is not human rights, several arguments that confirm this thesis, which is unfortunately clear to all today. The first is that the relationship of this authority to human rights is the fact that even the last three reports, and now I will talk about the choice for the Citizens' Protector, for the new Ombudsman, that the last three reports have not been discussed in the tide. It is not just a relationship to the institution and a relationship to one man, nor is it a report by one man to the institution itself, it is a report by citizens and citizens of Serbia living, which they face problems. When you ignore it that way, breaking the law, the institution because at some point a man bothers you, you're actually mocking and it's an unacceptable relationship to the citizens. In fact, in these reports, we are talking about what are the biggest problems that citizens face, what are the biggest problems that women, children, our oldest citizens face today, what are the biggest problems facing people with disabilities. All this power. All of this is ignored by this government, breaking the law, and making it impossible for us to discuss it in the congregation, where the place is, to discuss it. So yesterday, the president of the Assembly, on something we might call a public service of the SNS, said that the ombudsman's post-election post of Pasalic, who is the candidate of the Committee we are talking about today, would make sense. I must remind all of us together, that the purpose of the Civil Protection Institution is to protect the rights of citizens, to defend citizens from the bad actions of the government. And the president's statement can be interpreted as an announcement of the intention that this change will lead to it being the Protector of citizens who will defend power from bad citizens. That's unfortunately all we've been living for five years and it's not the first time we've heard anything like that. So, in the first days of the mandate of the future, almost certainly elected Citizens' Protector, he will face citizens' expectations and the need for the public to sort of respond to the burning problems that burden our democracy. Much more important than his concrete answers are all the activities that are necessary to follow. I will take this opportunity to run for the new Citizens' Protector, and there are few important institutions at any time, especially today in Serbia, the country, a candidate with so many destroyed independent institutions, with so many human rights threatened, several things. First, whether the right to strike is constitutional or legal. Whether the government has the right to declare workers, employees who exercise their legal right to strike, and accuses them of being guilty of allegedly leaving some foreign investors. Is that how the government respects the right of all employees in this country to exercise the right to strike? Whether the government respects the freedom of expression that is constitutional and legal law, human law, without respect or democracy, by labeling journalists by threatening them, by hoarding people. By declaring for five years for the enemies of the state today in Serbia anyone who dares to think freely, whose opinion does not appeal to one man or to one foreigner. Is the freedom of expression that is more than threatened in Serbia today when they move off the repertoire, when the shows are removed from television, when every space for dialogue is killed without whom we have no chance of being in an orderly and democratic society? Do citizens exercise their right to be informed, which is, I remind you, every citizen's right to be true and timely and informed in a country where regular programming schemes interrupt constant extraordinary emissions, a constant emergency press conference, where the most brutal abuse of a national frequency that is public good is becoming the loudest and most deadly weapon in a man's hands just because someone's opinion at some point didn't like it. Is the practice whose witnesses, unfortunately, for five years, warns the DS MPs more important than that in the latest reports on the country's progress that should be of interest, to the fact that this authority is ruling before the court, to conduct public investigations. That we have the fact that a brutal violation of the assumption of innocence is not only a constitutional and legal category, if you want it to be a civilization norm. In this way, the rights of citizens of those who go through an unremembered media hack are brutally violated, primarily by the highest officials, who declare who is guilty and who is not, who is the answer, and who is not and who is not the only one exclusively the truth is declared what they are thinking at that time. Is the state of emergency that marks all the local elections in the past five years in Serbia where black-knit beatings scare citizens, where activists parties are kidnapped, where candidates for council and municipal presidents beat each other up, whether it is a candidate country in which the right to free choice is granted. Are unimaginable pressures on employees, too, primarily in the state administration, local self-government, in public enterprises threatened by failure or modified systematicisation that will lead to their degradation as a person, only because they are pressured to vote for one man. Whether it is an uninterrupted and protected right both to free choice and right to work. “Savavala”, I know that everyone knows this very well, and I know that the candidate for the next Citizens' Protector knows very well that “Savavala” is a symbol of hitting the rule of law. That night, I'd like all of us from two contexts to remind myself of that case, are still unknown faces that hid behind the phantom, that night unauthorizedly deprived citizens of freedom, they hid behind the phantom who at that moment hid their faces, but discovered the character of this government. So, citizens are against the law and against constitutional freedoms. These terrified citizens at that time called the police for help and what is the most terrible thing that marks this government, because this "Savabala" and symbol of this government and this phantom, is the fact that the police had an order not to respond to calls from citizens and citizens who are frightened, frightened, whose property was not only property but also security at that time. Police in a country that has orders not to respond to calls from citizens and citizens to help is a country in which every man follows blood in your veins. So, the interruption of co-operation, and this is another context that is very important for the future, for someone who has shown willingness to run for the Guardian of Citizens, this context is particularly important, that the suspension of the co-operation of all those who are required under the law to co-operate with the Citizens' Protector was absolutely interrupted at that moment and then started one unremembered, brutal, media and any other campaign of the man who was at that point the Protector of the Citizens, who represented the institution and protected the citizens. What the previous Citizens' Protector was going through, much more important than what it personally meant for him and for the institution that he represented at the time, is a kind of demonstration exercise for all citizens and citizens of this country, as anyone who dares to respect the Constitution and the law, doing his job, stands in the way of the intentions of one man or one party. It's a demonstration exercise that's very important for a man who has shown his willingness to be a candidate at all for the next Protector of Citizens. We are all in a situation that the current President of the Republic of Serbia cannot stand to have a President who is calling, and therefore is running for president, cannot stand journalists who ask questions and therefore is inadmissible to label them, cannot stand citizens who feel free to think and show their private photos, represents their personal tweets, etc. On the other hand, it is a man not answered by the Protector of citizens who protects citizens and citizens, respects the Constitution and the laws, a man who does not respond to the proposal for the Protector of citizens who have proposed NGOs who have been engaged for years in protecting human rights, but someone who is proposed by one party and one majority – and then suggests Mr Pasalic. Mr. Pasalić has the space to justify all the legitimate doubts that we present today and which I am sure will be presented in the next discussion and there is room for us to have his willingness, to know all of this, his willingness to be a candidate for the Protector at all, to interpret as his incredible courage and uncompromisingness, because he is willing to go through the same things his predecessor was going through, because he will uncompromisingly respect the Constitution and the laws. As far as legal conditions are concerned, this is what my colleague used to say, which is necessary under the law that a Serbian citizen would at all be a candidate for the Protector of Citizens, this topic of time of study and average assessment, in my opinion, was perhaps meant to be a subject that was meant to be when he was elected judge. That's a bad message. But what's the subject and what binds us as responsible people are the legal conditions for which I have a problem seeing that they are respected. Therefore, the law provides that the candidate must have observed experience in protecting citizens' rights. Despite the judge's biography that we had as MPs and the public to get to know each other, we received information from the public that the future candidate for the Protector of Citizens, besides working as a judge of the Criminal Court, was a member of the Star Football Clubs Assembly, Partizan. I have to tell you that I've really worked really hard to find a connection between that and the observed experience in protecting human rights, and that's what the problem is. There must not be, for any, and especially for such an important institution, in such a fragile democracy that has been attacked, any space for something that can be controversial, and I think this is more than controversial. The Democratic Party, together with the Social Democratic Party, supported the proposal of more than 80 NGOs to run for the Protector of Citizens, to make future Citizens Protector Mr Milos Jankovic, who is the Deputy Protector of Citizens, and at the moment acting as Protector of Citizens. Unfortunately, the proposal was not passed by the Committee. It's a devastating fact, but it's a pretty accurate picture of this government. Ignoring the proposal for credible NGOs, a representative of the civil sector, which has been a problem in several aspects for years and decades, for the protection of human rights. It is, firstly, a relationship to the civil sector, secondly, and as we have had the opportunity to hear, is a relationship to the continuity of work and thirdly, if you will, is a relationship both to the recommendations and to the European institutions which have in the past few years, when they have been defined to be a policy rather than something else, their mouth is full of European values of harmonisation. So, the fact that there was no attempt to seek consensus that the future Protector of citizens is not only a product of mere mathematics, the fact that there was no dialogue with the civil sector, that their proposal was rudely ignored, is something that says that there are neither the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Venice Commission, if you will, and the elemental democratic principles. One candidate, therefore, was proposed by NGOs, human rights activists, and the other candidate was proposed by one party and by the majority, with the majority announcing a change in the meaning of the institution. It's a terrible message for the citizens. You know, for citizens who have recognized the importance of this institution in the past 10 years, because more than 100,000 citizens have addressed the institution of the Protector of Citizens, over 35,000 complaints have been filed to the Protector of the Citizens and his team, which only proves that these complaints have become more concrete over time, in the same way that attacks by those who have not had the right to have any dilemmas about that jurisdiction have become increasingly loud. This government thinks it's sinless. He thinks every legal attempt to control this government is an attempt at a state coup. He thinks that anyone who dares to speak and thinks differently is, to say the least, a state enemy. This government needs better citizens, not better administration. She needs citizens who are silent, institutions that don't rattle, a government that absolutely has absolutely no control. What is important for Mr Pasalic, I believe that he is closely following this discussion today, that he is running for a function whose job it is to protect citizens' rights against the wrong moves of power, in fact, controls that power. The character of this government is unfortunately very well known to all of us for a very long time, and Mr Pasalić will have a chance to show his character already in the first days of his mandate, relevant, and much more important, not only relevant, but also by acting and taking action in relation to the issues that I asked at the beginning of the discussion but also reminders of him and the public, which burden our work. At the end of the debate on the Citizens' Protector, I want all the deputy citizens' protectors, all the people who have, devotedly, worked in that institution, who have tried to make it an institution that has not only credibility but also more important, the trust of citizens, all the praise for their work so far, and much more importantly, all the support for what awaits them in the future, which is the struggle to preserve the independence of that institution, because it will only be able to protect the rights of citizens. In a few words, given the fact that we have united agenda points and that today, in addition to the most important topics, we are talking about also extremely important topics, which is a proposal to elect members of the Anti-Corruption Agency, which has been blocked by the Anti-Corruption Agency, in Serbia, a candidate country in the European Union, which has opened chapters 23 and 24, in which the authorities are fostering corruption, because we have a blocked Anti-Corruption Agency, with incredible legal games over the elections. As we have been witnessing that you have worked on selecting members of the regulatory body for electronic media, so, if not worse, we have inadmissible games of this majority and of the proposal for members of the Anti-Corruption Agency, so this Agency cannot even solve, more than 40, 50, the proposals are currently on hold, it cannot analyse the financial report of the parties from previous elections, and we are witnessing that one man and one party have disproportionately spent more funds than all the other candidates. On the other hand, about the fight against corruption, where absolutely nothing is happening in this country, we have both appeals and opinions and reports and the Bureau of Social Research and all others who say that the government simply ignores the fight of those whose job is to fight corruption and what is unfortunately the fact that the fight against corruption is obviously going to wait for another power. Finally, the proposal that Mr Petrovic and Vukkovic and Ante Primakov as candidates for the president and members of the Fiscal Council, which I will remind you, has been candidates in these places since 2011, is only an exception to the rule that history does not begin with the Serbian Progressive Party. Even the opinions and recommendations of the Fiscal Council, which is the public, and we as the MPs, particularly when we talk about the budget, introduces us to the fiscal council, he talks about the problem of non-transparentity of subsidies, that we do not know which companies are given subsidies, which are, who determines, talk about the issues of secret contracts, talk about many of the problems that the government is deafening, on the one hand. On the other hand, in recent days, the Fiscal Council has warned the Serbian government of something that MPs have been warning the DS for years, and this is that irresponsible economic policy is the fact that you are taking from cities and municipalities and thus not only these local self-government, but also from citizens whose size of rights is smaller in that case. It says that over 1.2 billion euros are missing today, that our municipalities and cities are in so much trouble. Of course, the government is not responding, as the IMF did not ask for teachers to be fired, and that is an incredible prank that you offer to Serbian citizens and citizens, but rather asked them to save themselves. As the IMF did not ask for a constitutional reduction in pensions, rather than a cut in savings, while the government charged its own irresponsibility and incompetence from Serbian citizens, boasts that the most important thing is that it is a reduced deficit. Well, you know what, if you take from all the municipalities and cities everything, so you're going to reduce the deficit even more. What marks the selection of members of the Fiscal Council, and it is much more important that the whole context of all these choices ahead of us today is that the reason why these candidates are proposed for members of the Fiscal Council is only because their opinion, at least for the time being, does not bother the opinion of one man of a party. When it bothers everyone, it's a clear scenario that will follow. To conclude, fighting for the rule of law, which is the key topic of today's elections, all three points of the agenda talk about it, fighting for citizens' rights, for strong and independent institutions, because it's the only way we have a chance to have free citizens and, more importantly, controlled power. The fight for democracy is constant. Some citizens fought for it while others did something else. Some citizens have tried to establish it along with people all these years ago. Unfortunately, we have to defend her today and that's the DS obligation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18566	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18567	The debate is united. We have three points of the agenda. I'm going to say something at first which is the observation common to all three of these points. First of all, we're a little surprised why he's so late. We are not used to efficiency and the National Assembly and the ruling coalition. We expected both economics and efficiency to be an order that we ended all these points maybe a few months ago, but good. What else is in common? Well, all three decisions are choices. But the choice is a process, and I get the impression that the promoters realized that the election was only an act of voting, an electoral action. The electoral action is a vote and, of course, if a large number of MPs support someone's candidacy with their signature, the decision is known in advance and nothing is problematic. But you have to answer some very important questions -- let's see what's done, how it's done, is most of them doing it right? I know that at the stage of this process it is about expectations and I have no doubt that there are good expectations and good hopes in those who have proposed this agenda and those who have proposed these candidates, but one is expectations and hopes, and for a long time there is something that these results can be, and we can already say what results will be based on experience and an objective judgment of the state of affairs both in the social environment and with a view to the biography of these candidates. Of course, I remind you that we were not as a state, as a nation and as a National Assembly, when we were choosing various candidates for various functions, since, in addition to what is political, we managed, first of all, with a degree in experience, with some knowledge, with some renomination, with some reputation and unfortunately practice, we showed that we were collectively wrong. We've put high hopes into candidates with low capacity. They don't have the courage or the courage to go into something more serious. Now, on this first item of the agenda, which is the selection of five members of the Anti-Corruption Agency, I'm going to go under one, and that's the proposal of the candidate who submitted the President of the Republic. I'm not going to name names or last names, because it might be a little confusing, but I have to say that before this proposal was formed, something happened. It took place in February of this year that the President of the Republic submitted a proposal at the time and could not be defined as one candidate but submitted a list of candidates. Two candidates close to him, from his immediate surroundings and he realized that choice means when to choose between one and the other. He told Pero or Mike, so you decide now in the Assembly. It's important that both Peru and Mike meet the conditions. So, what happened? On 22 February 2017, the committee responsible, which is the Committee on Justice, was based on Article 51. The Rules of Procedure made the Report, not an opinion, please, according to the Rules of Procedure and by the Law need an opinion, but they have made the Report and their opinion is that we in the Assembly consider and decide on the choice of one of the two candidates, but this has not come to the agenda since 22 February. Then what's going on? Then it happens that July 6th, the same committee also calls for article 51, a real letter, not even a report, does not give an opinion, and he says he is withdrawing his proposal. Who's withdrawing his proposal? The board. Well, the board can withdraw their opinion, and it can't withdraw the proposal. The proposal was submitted by the President of the Republic, but that President of the Republic, meanwhile, became the former President of the Republic. What do we do now? You see, it's not just the candidate proposed by the President of the Republic, who has failed because the President of the Republic has become the former President of the Republic, but we now see that it's not really an opinion, but our Committee stands by its head and chin behind it. So, what's going on? They say the President of the Republic withdrew his proposal. It happens that we're getting a new president of the Republic, the former doesn't exist anymore, and now the new one doesn't propose two candidates, the candidate list, Pera, Mike to be elected. No, he says my candidate is Dick and you have to choose Djok and you support that proposal and that's how it came. So, from February 22nd of Mike and Laza, we arrived at the end of July at the only one, and that's not a choice now, that's a vote. Please, I don't mention candidates' names so I don't get a warning. I'm just trying to explain what happened and what happened in the meantime and why the National Assembly isn't effective and why people who run the National Assembly, when it was all right, didn't put it on the agenda. That's what I'm talking about, and how you interpret it, I don't know. Please, we've been waiting since February 22nd for this candidate of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and you know it's such an important agency that can't even initiate a misdemeanor procedure. So there's no status as an authorised proponent for the conduct of a misdemeanor procedure, but we have to meet European standards, we have to have institutions that fight against everything and everything, and that's what's happening. The second to be elected is the proposal of the Supreme Cassation Court. The same committee submitted a report instead of an opinion on 22 February. They're proposing that candidate and it's only now coming to the agenda since February 22nd. The third one he's proposing, that's the DRI. They submitted their proposal on 8 March 2017. Again, our Justice Committee only considered June 13th, and only now does this come to the agenda. As for the Social-Economic Council, they sent their proposal in June 2017 and again our Committee does not give an opinion, but gives a report, and of course it supports everything. And, uh, we have these news associations that submitted more, please, in August of 2015. The associations have proposed their candidate. The same went to the Justice Committee, but not this year, but last year, September 20, 2016. I am under the impression that someone in the National Assembly is deliberately blocking these very important institutions without which there is no entry into the EU. Why did someone block it? We could have made that decision in the meantime. Then we get to another one, this is this particular proposal that is a joint proposal by the Guardians of Citizens and Commissioners for Public Information. They sent the proposal on 31 March 2015. On 13 June this year, the proposal was discussed by the Committee on Justice and gave an opinion on the report, where this is supported. But then, on July 6th, they said, "The motion is withdrawn as well." Why? Well, that Citizen's Protector is the former Protector of Citizens, and then practically the only one who exists is the Trustee, and not only the Trustee, he has to go along with the Protector, and now we don't have the Protector, we have the former Protector. But to make the situation even weirder, on June 13th, the Committee accepts and former Protector as authorized, and then on July 6th, something happens, so if the president can be the former president, then the Protector can be the former Protector. See for yourself, we work very effectively. It's all in the hands of the majority, from the proposal through the board to the leadership of the National Assembly. These are all conditions for the EU's path. We need to be efficient and get these jobs done. We have a report from the Committee which is also a proposal. Why? He finds that the official proposal has given up the proposal and that the proposal has been withdrawn, and that has not happened. So now it doesn't seem like I'm getting you into some kind of rhetorical story that doesn't make any sense, this story really doesn't make any sense. Protector of citizens is an even more interesting story. I'm going to tell the story of the Citizens' Protector to start with a sentence that yesterday was breaking news in the paper -- what the ruling coalition says about the Protector of Citizens says. The coalition government's statement -- we'll finally get the Citizens' Protector to protect the citizens. Now the question is, so the previous Protector or former Protector wasn't protecting the citizens, and this one's going to protect him, and who's proposing him? The ruling coalition. And who does he need to protect the citizens from? The task of the Protector of Citizens is to provide good administration. So the Protector of the Citizens is fighting against the bad administration. And you say - our administration is bad, but it's ours, we need our Protector to protect us from us. That's how we got a candidate who broke a good average with one week. That's how we got one Protector who's really going to protect the citizens. The biography says that he was swimming solidly in judicial reform and probably belongs to that group of judges who rebelled over the reform and in the fight for the rights of the judge found to address those who stole the mandates and money from the SRS. So, the great judges, the great human rights fighters and the law did not address those who are honest and honest, but those who stole the mandates and the money. So, what do we think of these judges? I sometimes criticized that judicial reform, and sometimes I came to say - Democrats, you were right, you knew the specific composition of these judges. Here, on one case, it turns out who they are, what they are. They fight crime and seek protection from those, which is obvious, is common knowledge, theft of mandates and theft of money. That's some interesting stuff. As far as this Fiscal Council is concerned, I have to tell you, and when it was introduced, the DS, which was ruling, didn't exactly take the Fiscal Council with enthusiasm. I can't lie. I have to talk straight. Why? Because there's no such thing as a fiscal council. What kind of people are there? Another small instrument is pressing on the Republic of Serbia and on all those in power, no matter how it changes. They are a classic example of pressure coming from the IMF, the World Bank and other institutions. Imagine, under the pressure of the IMF, let's get this Fiscal Council, but we've also got fiscal rules in the Budgetary System Act, and we've got rules according to recommendations and directives that don't even apply to the EU. That's why the anchors of fiscal policy in us are the world standards that no one can live with, and our fiscal council gives for itself, hiding behind Professor, Dr., Mr., now I hear, and this one has become a doctor, who doesn't have to be in a working relationship, who allegedly corresponds only to the National Assembly, who are supposed to be an independent state body, and then the ministry says -- they're no body, they're a state administration body, they're an independent legal person who deals with publishing work, they write books, they write analysis. And they tell all of us -- you have to sell NIS, you have to sell EPS, you have to sell this, you have to what, you have to do this, you have to do this. Who the hell are they? What good has happened since we got the fiscal advice? Is there one thing that happened well? Have we been made public finances in a better way? Has the Fiscal Council put pressure on everyone in Serbia to ensure the fiscal sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Ninety percent of the leadership employed in the Fiscal Council doesn't have to be in a working relationship with the Fiscal Council. Why do they exist? In order for the IMF and the World Bank to know that there are, in addition to NGOs, besides foreign banks, besides the National Bank that accepts everything from the IMF, there is a Fiscal Council that will press and agree with those in power to make reports. A year ago, we warned of a poor state of public finances in local self-government units. And then the Fiscal Council takes data from the Public Debt Administration, statistics, data from the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities, and makes some big analysis to explain to us what's going on, like we don't know it. Well, we know that and we've been warning for years. They have now found it appropriate for someone in power to tighten the local self-government. And local self-government will tighten. Will they be able to breathe, who knows. We can today realize that we have become the victim of false diplomas, stealing mandates, so for God's sake, and paying voters to win mine. And we have one sunflower in general. How does that work? Well, media very nice. At the beginning of the year it is said – our goal is 60. The result of the year is 55. And then we say, well, we didn't do 60, we did 55, that's good. Instead of next year being a 55 target, no, next year's target is 65. So we'll do 60 again. And when you look at the real minus, minus, minus, minus. If it's as good as they say, how come people don't feel? How is that dissatisfaction? These three institutions, whose members are elected today, unfortunately no problem from their jurisdiction will be able to resolve. We all know that. And before this session was scheduled, we knew what the result of the vote would be, what will be decided, that is the legitimate right of the majority. But most of them exist to solve problems, solve problems. Our task here is to criticise, to point out other solutions, to distract and we do so in this congregation and this way. But problems don't solve. That's the problem. The problems are just generational. Everything will be settled when we enter the European Union. Forget that story, people, it's nothing. The problem is that on that road, this transition becomes a long-term hazy state with fog. We don't need fog, we need people, regulations that match this nation and this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18568	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. Col. Tomic, you're reporting as a representative of the motion, or president of the Committee who formulated the proposal for a decision on the election of members of the Fiscal Council, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18569	Thank you, Chairman. Since the Fiscal Council has also been mentioned in a flagrant way, the story in general is that the Fiscal Council is an institution within the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of a constitutional category, I had to report that I am responding, although the agenda item and the debate on the choice of the Citizens' Protector and members of the Anti-Corruption Agency has been launched. What we had a chance to hear is to disabling the public in general on the subject and selecting members of the Fiscal Council. In 2011, when this same Fiscal Council was elected, there was no IMF, but there was a Fiscal Council. And the Fiscal Council is an institution that has its specific tasks, by means of the Budgetary System Act, of Articles 92b and 92a. Therefore, they are precisely moving in their responsibilities what the law has given them and prescribed, and what they are in and their role is, above all, an assessment of fiscal policy, that is, the work when the finance minister is to do the draft budget and to give a certain opinion and his proposal for fiscal policy for the next year or for the next three years. The fiscal council is an institution that assesses all of this. So, this Fiscal Council was working both in 2011 and 2012 today, but in its estimates it was decidingly giving certain solutions and major criticisms to the economic policy that was led until 2012 and giving a proposal for a solution completely apolitically when it was meant to solve the biggest problems that SNS and its coalition partners were left to solve from 2012 until today. So when we talk in general about the need to propose a fiscal council in accordance with the law, then we are talking about proposals for the President of the Fiscal Council, according to the law that I have stated, given the president of the Republic of Serbia, to the members by the minister of finance of the Republic of Serbia and the governor of the National Bank of Serbia. So we're not questioning whether it's necessary or not. It must, because that's what the law says, and these laws work long before the ruling majority is in this system. So I don't see why it's necessary now to say somewhere in public that it's actually some IMF experts who now impose certain solutions on us here. No one imposes anything, but simply through their expertise they give their opinions and assessments. In the end, many here from opposition parties in the past have called for these grades and opinions when they wanted to give the highest criticism to the ruling majority. It should be said that a proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Fiscal Council in accordance with Article 92b was adopted at the meeting of the Committee on 11 July 2017. The law on the budgetary system, after which we received in writing a proposal from the candidates, for the President of the Fiscal Council of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, Mr. Professor Pavel Petrovic, as a member of the Fiscal Council by Mr. Dusan Vujović's Finance Minister, Dr. Nikola Altiparmak, and for a member, also, of the Fiscal Council by the Governor of the National Bank of the National Bank, Governor of Ms. Jorgovanka Tabaković, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Vuković. In the debate, we had the opportunity to hear different opinions. So, from these IMF experts to not seeing what the role of the Fiscal Council was, to the fact that we had even had doubts from certain members of the Committee about whether Professor Dr, in accordance with his age, could perform his function. All in all, what everyone agrees on is that they still have their own biography that no one can deny, that they are professionals, that the critical dimension of their work is recognized and that it is about quality people who give their particular grades that are consistent with the profession. When we talk about biography at all, first of all, I'd say that for the public, we need to know what candidates we're talking about today. When we talk about Professor Pavel Petrovic, it should be said that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic gave in explanation - with his strong, serious and constructive criticism of Prof. Pavle Petrovic made a major contribution to the successful economic policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous period and that the president of Serbia is convinced that his professional, personal integrity, as well as his so far functioning as President of the Fiscal Council, is a guarantor of the Council's meaningful and quality work in the new mandate. Why did he say that? All of what we had the opportunity to hear and all the great criticisms were the main corrective dimension and somewhere an indicator of which should go in terms of fiscal consolidation and economic reforms, but also based on what Mr Petrovic was doing in his biography, he was really running, that a man of the highest integrity he should hear and really listen to in many things. It should be said that Mr. Pavle Petrovic was assistant finance minister from 2001 to 2002, from 2003 to 2004, president of the National Bank of Serbia Council, from 2007 to 2011, was editor of "Mata", a magazine that was currently engaged in economic trends and fiscal policy, in order to become president of the Fiscal Council from 2011. By 2015, he taught at the Faculty of Economics in Belgrade, but was a visiting professor at many prestigious universities, such as Harvard, Princeton, Korelli. It should be said that in his countless works in which he gave his expert opinions, he was assessed as the highest marks by his colleagues from prestigious universities, not only to whom he visited, but also to which, as members of the Fiscal Council, they became an integral part of the European network of fiscal organisations, means the EU. That's where we're talking about today and their grades that we got, these last ones that refer to a major review of criticism, but also recommendations on how to arrange public finances when we talk about local self-government. They did not make their report and analysis of ad hoc and based on some of the findings there, but primarily on the financial reports made by the State Auditor for the past four years, but also on certain macroeconomic research and analytical data provided not only by the Bureau of Statistics, but also by direct people entering local self-government and doing financial reports that we have opportunities in the public to find on official sites of institutions. On this basis, they worked on a programme, a platform that requires Serbia to go in this second step of fiscal consolidation, to settle its finances when it comes to local self-government. Therefore, I believe that since 2007, these people have given their public opinion that it should look like a public finance arrangement, that public debt must not exceed 60% of GDP, that 3% of the growth must be ensured if you want to have sustainable finances, that inflation should be controlled, which must be within certain limits to 3% in order for the state register to function in an extremely real and normal manner. However, no one had to hear them, even in 2011 when this Assembly chose, as is now a proposal to choose and function as an institution, it was an opportunity for someone to hear them from state authorities. The then Prime Minister and then the finance minister gave their estimates, especially when it comes to regionalisation of the administration, if you remember, which the URS proposed. They have given their assessment of what they think of it and what path it really should go towards fiscal consolidation of local budgets, but no one has had the opportunity to hear them or listen to them. Then, after 2012, when this assembly majority listened to what the state institutions were saying, what the Fiscal Council said and found the forces and mechanisms of the institutional to really implement the programmes that the Fiscal Council gave as a series of recommendations what to do, they all ran to call on the Fiscal Council, that the ruling coalition did not want to listen to all these recommendations. One step at a time, those recommendations were heard, there was a lot of work going on. Even the Fiscal Council itself did not believe that Serbia was ready to implement the most difficult economic reforms together with the government of the Republic of Serbia, so that economic growth would just rise and reach 2.7 per cent in 2016. And they gave themselves that real growth would be 1.7%, so they eventually changed their minds. They didn't believe public debt would begin to fall at this rate. They came to represent that the fiscal council was actually criticizing this government at the time. It is because of such a critical attitude that this ruling majority realized that in an extremely friendly way such an institution in this composition should exist, because there should always be a critical opinion in society that we should look back on and we should really apply certain stages in the recommendations of such reports and such assessments for all of us, for the sake of being better at all, that we simply have a sustainable functioning of our public finances. That is why we today have roads and the possibility of certain large countries coming and investing here and in infrastructure, but to come and open small and medium-sized enterprises, including large factories, to employ their large industries and transfer production capacities here to Serbia. What proved to be irresponsible business by 2012, the conclusion of contracts we had with Fiat. You can't publish the terms of a contract with Fiat because someone there wrote that it's a business secret, so the state would have to pay a huge penalty, a great deal of damage, but the state has to help keep the rest of this auto-industry like Fiat, because there's a lot of people working there. The Kragujevac is no longer a valley of famine, as it was at the time of Fiat's arrival in Kragujevac. Therefore, only the responsible policy shows that if you run your public finances economically in a sustainable way, you have the opportunity to open a space for foreign direct investment inflows, as well as domestic investments. You have the opportunity to finance the construction of schools, hospitals, cultural goods, or cultural facilities and thus finance this non-productive part of every society and to invest new knowledge, and above all open the possibility that our young people are not leaving and looking for their jobs outside the country, but in Serbia where they should plan their future. That is the essence of the support of all of these proposings that we have had the opportunity to see for members of the Fiscal Council. Today, tomorrow the Fiscal Council as an institution should exist and continue its work in order to benefit all Serbian citizens. After all, we are here for all these citizens and to simply hear and solve their problems. Therefore, any discussion in that part that the Fiscal Council is unnecessary and to minimise their existence here, should at any moment be clear to the citizens of Serbia that it is the institution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia defined by law, the constitutional category and that it must exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18570	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18571	Thank you. We have three proposals here, three staff proposals and it would be nice to focus on any of them, most media attention had a proposal to protect the citizens. We have a very important Anti-Corruption Agency and members of the Fiscal Council. Fortunately, colleagues have already said something about individual solutions, so I'm going to make a connection. I must say immediately that I and my colleagues, at least when it comes to the election of the Ombudsman, or the Protector of the Citizens, will vote against, and when it comes to other proposals, we leave our conscience to each of the MPs, or members of the parliamentary group, and there is reason to say that if he does not vote in favour, at least he will be abstentioned. These proposals by members of the Anti-Corruption Agency are relatively decent proposals. These are people who are more or less competent, they can do the job, there are no visible obstacles. Some are even very good. So it's not our goal to automatically reject any proposal that comes either from the ruling majority or from the institutions of the current government, but to consider things right from case to case. When it comes to members of the Fiscal Council, there is a bit more specific and I will talk about it in the second part of today's presentation. There we have more or less indisputable biography and competent personality, but a rather controversial institution and I would agree with one part in what counterpart Krasic said, and probably some others from the opposition will speak on the line. So, as I said they are more or less good protagonists, I'm talking about members of the Fiscal Council, more or less good protagonists, one generally problematic or in my opinion problematic economic policy. When it comes to the Guardian of Citizens, which is the topic most interested in the public at this point for a number of reasons, there is one procedural thing that is more than procedural and which cannot be apostrophyd. I also talked about it during some previous sessions here. We don't like to see and I don't think it's good to see biographies that are incomplete in an elementary way, biographies where, I don't know, five, six, seven, eight pages where there are relatively irrelevant data, and the data that matters and which is of general importance to any function, for any duty or place to run and compete, so in the most important places, you have years of study, what you have completed and the average rating. We have a candidate who doesn't have that particular thing, then we from the media need to find out that he's studied for 13 years and that he's supposed to have an average of 6.75. Now, look, there are extraordinary individuals who haven't even graduated from schools and colleges and can be very good in some areas. They can be great inventors, they can be great journalists, some of the best Serbian journalists haven't finished colleges, I don't know, from Miroslav Radojcic, which the older ones know, to Tirnanic or Tijanic, who we remember, less everyone. So it's not necessary, but if you're doing a function, a state function, in this way, at a level like this, then it's necessary, of course, not only to have a college, but to be distinguished in the profession and, among other things, to be manifested and seen by how, where, how and how much you studied. Chuck, I'd have the understanding to say, and if the promoters said that it was a man who was very successful, I don't know, during his career, he did that too, and that's why he could be ignored, or ignored, or suspended, or put in a bracket that desperately infamous, school balance, at least at the beginning of his education, because, I say, he was great. So it was time when Mr. Tijanic was elected director of RTS, he did not buy diplomas, and he could buy it as many others, but he ran without even being elected director of RTS, and he was a good director, so will those who were then both power and opposition. So, in this case, I would like to say hello, or at least I have the understanding that someone cited that information and said, but nevertheless we believe for this and that reason, that the gentleman, it doesn't matter, Pasalic, in this case, should be elected as Protector of the Citizens. But no, this information is hidden here, and that's what's not good. It's especially not good when we see that there's this, and it happens often, it's been in the case of these prosecutors, where there's also such hidden data, and we're getting such biographies more and more often. On the contrary, I would also point out as a commendable example, but at the same time as a partnership that you should keep in mind and which serves me as a critic, which is a proposal, and that, beware, is the president of the Republic for a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. So, the president suggests Mr. Milos Stankovic. I said that everyone's more or less eligible, and I think they can do well in that place, we'll see if they can manage, if it's just the transmission of the current government, or if they're going to work on their own. But anyway, Mr. Stankovic in his CV deliberately puts the results of his schooling, according to a high grade that is exceptional 9.55, even though he finished 12th Belgrade high school as a student of Vuk's degree, so in high school, which is not usual, and is not necessary, it is more rarely placed, and even puts it that he graduated from the elementary school of Karadjordje in Belgrade, as the institution of Vuk's diploma and the best student in his generation. So, Mr. Stankovic, who is proposed by the President of the Republic, I stress as a good candidate, also puts the primary school, and the high school, and that he was a Vukovac, and of course, the years of study and which he had in high school. Which is nice and commendable. I'm saying, maybe it's a little nerdy, it could've been without this elementary and high school, but there's nothing I can blame. But so much earlier, so much more is the fact that when it comes to the proposal for the Protector of Citizens, there is no elemental data. She didn't have to go to elementary and high school, but he could've done college, not like I said, and I repeat, and I stress, 13 years and 6.75 grade. Sometimes for some reasons of professional, biographical, family, people opt for a quick completion and then not pay attention to the average, they just go to finish, and then they continue in postgraduate and later perfect themselves in the profession, and they can be very good experts. So, I mean, not the average is always an important indicator, but the problem is that here is the problem and the average rating and the length of the study. So he didn't finish in four years, so you say it doesn't matter how high his grade is, he was just chasing to finish, and vice versa. So for such an important and delicate function, for such an important and delicate place, I think a man is coming who, by the way, is already a serious handicap to him. On the side of what, my colleague Diana will talk more about, aside from his career after graduation and finishing school running so that it can be seen that he wasn't actually dealing with human legal issues. So, at least in his biography, or almost nothing, that's what he's drawn attention to, as well, the subject he's supposed to be dealing with right now. It's too important and prominent a function for recommendations to be what's here in the biography. In this regard, I also ask my colleagues from the ruling majority, and then especially the party heads, at least two main parties who have proposed this candidate or this candidate, means Mr. Vukic and Mr. Dacic. Mr. Vukic boasted several times about his grades, saying he was a nerd, that he was one of the better students, the best students, Ivica Dacic, also at the Faculty of Political Sciences. When, as they didn't try, when they were, and they really care about it, and they're proud of that part, for a reason, their biographies, which then didn't make sure that their MP groups, if they didn't have them in mind, turned a little bit more attention to that little thing, that little thing called, I don't know, 13 years of studying and an average score below seven, candidates who suggest their MP groups, which you're proposing and at the same time on their behalf. As I repeat, I will no longer return to it, Mr. Stankovic, who is proposed by the President of the Republic, and how he has made sure that everything that suits him, everything that is positive and everything he has to boast about. I'd like it to be a principle, not to depend on the good will of the candidate. He can put the family status, the seminars he attended, the courses, etc., whether he can put it or not, according to the way, but which college ended, in which time and with what middle grade, I think it has to be the standard from which we go, not that here from the media, indirectly, through social networks we inform ourselves. I don't even know if this is exactly what I heard about Star and Partizan, that it's about a person who has such a universal and broad procedure, that he's arrived to be a member of the Red Star football club and the Partizan football club. I don't know if it's a recommendation, perhaps to carry out this duty as Protector of the Citizens, since he has understanding, I guess he'll also have it for Star and Partizan fans. The joke aside, therefore, I simply think that for all the functions and the biographies that are coming to us here, which we are wondering about and deciding, please, and that I ask the Headship of the Assembly to even automatically return that kind of proposal, if it is not complete, and if it does not contain this detail regarding college, school, length of study and average rating. It doesn't have to, repeat and end with it, it doesn't have to be the main and the only reason, but it is important and we need to keep it in mind, not to be indirectly, privately or through the media. As far as the Fiscal Council is concerned, and I'm going to end this part, there's something else, there's a problem we have competent candidates, but an institution that's a lot of things that are problematic and that, here, and no matter what I've heard from my colleague Tomic who tried to explain it in part, so I agree with what she said about the personality and the biography of the candidates, there I would really not slow down more or less, of course. But it is a controversial thing, and that is the role of the Fiscal Council in our policy, our economic policy, which is being led and which is not the most negative, far from it. She also said that sometimes opposition colleagues, we from the opposition sometimes refer to some information published by the Fiscal Council, criticising and offering an argument for criticism of the current economic policy. So the Fiscal Council is one of the institutions that, in my opinion, is one of the more independent in relation to the current executive power, which is positive and they dare say, and they have ways to hear it, to say something critical at the expense of this official force mantra on economic successes. That's good, and indeed your data is more or less relevant. What's controversial, and about that, as I said later, I'm going to talk about it, is what they really do, and here and their members here, who, in interviews, ask them and the press, and they defend themselves from it, actually seem like a bigger IMF than the IMF. So, really sometimes they act independently of what they are, their mission is of course independent of the IMF mission, but very often they act either as an extended arm or even as more radical than what the IMF offers and proposes. Now, just the other day, one of the members of the Fiscal Council, Vladimir Vukkovic, says that he is unhappy that the IMF is sometimes too mild in its demands, so they would be even more firm in that as well. It's not bad to have an independent body that cares about fiscal stability, but it's not good if it's just an imperative, because it's not that, as the old saying goes, the operation succeeded and the patient died. When it comes to our fiscal stabilisation measures, sometimes I have this impression that it is going in that direction to make the figures great, to say that the deficit has fallen, that the balances are positive, and that the population and that the citizens of Serbia are in some way, if not quite dead, but in a very difficult position. So either they live hard, strike at every step or watch as soon as they can pick up a passport and leave Serbia. It's something that's very important and that even a body like the Fiscal Council, no matter what its mission is specific, it still has to take care of it. I want to say that it must also take care of the social cost of these seemingly good and positive economic and fiscal measures that they propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18572	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18573	Respected citizens of Serbia who expect protection from the devastating effects of the SNS authorities over the past five years, Serbian citizens who expect a different economic policy after a devastating DOS-ist policy that lasts from 5 October 2000 to today, because SNS is in fact the highlight of DOS, and of course, respected Serbian citizens who have been expecting to fight crime and corruption for five years since the SNS came to power, and has won the story and false promises of fighting crime and corruption, I am sure you are interested in our agenda topic today at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. How important it is for SNS and the SPS to work properly for the institutions of the Citizens' Protector, the Fiscal Council and the Anti-Corruption Agency, it is best to say that they have been vacant for months in these important independent regulatory bodies. It is understandable that the government is motivated to have members of these regulatory bodies elected as soon as possible to be as little control over their authority as possible, and that is also a motive for constantly restricting the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because it is crucial, not that they have all power and can do whatever they want, but rather how to stop the opposition from hearing different opinions and different attitudes and how to prevent supervisory authorities from ever controlling the work of this government. That's why I'm here in front of you asking the next few very important principles. If they can't stop the election of these members, and here for months they've delayed that these institutions can't work at all, then it's best to choose those who will remain silent about this government. So the question arises whether we choose the Protector of Citizens or I choose a protector of SNS interest from citizens who are justly rebellious against municipal police officers, parking services, green banks, or, say, public executioners who throw them out of family homes? So, are we going to have, and we have, as you say, and that is true, the Citizens' Protector, Sasa Jankovic, who went from there to politics, and are we now going to have a new Protector of the citizens of Zoran Pasalic who will come from the political position of the SNS as the Protector of the Citizens? After all, is he one of those 600 judges who never returned the SNS membership card and did not join the SNS, which only says that we have at least 600 party judges today in Serbia? When it comes to the fiscal council, then the principle question is very simple -- does the fiscal council serve to cover what this government is doing in a catastrophic economic policy that lasts five years? Is the Fiscal Council, in fact, an even more radical neoliberal economic concept that would save even more on citizens and domestic economies and give even more to foreign companies and foreign banks? Such a fiscal council, which advises us to invest our money in foreign investors, is absolutely not needed. Such a fiscal advice that serves the interests of the IMF and advises the same thing that the IMF advises is simply excessive, or unnecessary. We already have an IMF that advises us as well as many other countries around the world that are unhappy with the IMF's advice. Of course, when it comes to the Anti-Corruption Agency, the key question arises whether the Anti-Corruption Agency will ever deal with crime and corruption in the closest environment of the new president of the state of Aleksandr Vukic or, for example, his brothers, godfathers and party friends will be excluded from the fight against crime and corruption? So, will these members, which we should choose in the Anti-Corruption Agency's Committee, be able to hit the SNS as a source of crime and corruption at the top of the state system. That's the key question. If they don't mind, there's no need to choose them, they, as Anna Brnabic, will be the most common icabans and ficuses in the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. So we don't need a Citizens' Protector to teach us about Srebrenica and to protect the promotion of homosexuality in Serbia. We need a Citizens' Protector to help those citizens who can't solve any problems in the catastro for ten years. We need a Citizens' Protector who will side with our citizens who are arrested and are still lying in prisons in Montenegro for some fictional coup supported by Aleksandar Vukic as a great friend of mob boss Milo Djukanovic. We need a Citizens' Protector who will protect our citizens who, for example, have not yet been returned to their property rights in Croatia, or the Citizens' Protector who will remember that there are Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, because Kosovo and Metohija are also in Serbia and they are our citizens that the Citizens' Protector should protect. Or, for example, we need a Protector of citizens who will protect the interests of our citizens abroad, who have no basis for law, electoral law and various methods of all authorities in the last 15 years have been prevented from voting normally. You have a tragically funny situation that in the entire Serbian diaspora in the vote, there are barely a few thousand people, and there are hundreds and hundreds of thousands, some say several million, who are citizens or citizens of this country. Has the Protector ever stepped into their protection? Never. Has the Protector of the Citizens, for example, stopped at the protection of families that public executioners have kicked out of family homes? Did he step into the protection of those 20,000 families that those greeners, bank robbers, foreign banks rob with these amazing loans indexed in Swiss francs? When did we hear the Citizens' Protector protect the citizens where they were most affected, from the banking dericoces who tear the skin off the back of Serbian citizens? We also have a series of other good questions, like one extreme human question -- where is the Guardian of Citizens when you cut off electricity in the 21st century because he didn't have to pay for electricity? And he didn't have to pay for electricity, imagine the reason, because no member in that family is employed. Then comes some smart-ass from the government, from some public enterprise, who must not charge any tycoon tax, which cannot further tax any foreign bank that robs us, and charges itself on the poor, excludes electricity in the 21st century family that has nothing to pay for it, because people simply are not employed or have lost their job in robbery privatisations, for which you have not yet discovered those who are responsible and who robbed us and today do not lie in prisons of Serbia. You promised five years ago you'd arrest all the tycoons and all the politicians who robbed us, and five years ago, there's not one in prison. Does the example work, does the Citizen's Protector also care about workers working in foreign companies in Serbia? Where is the Guardian of Citizens to stand up and say that these are the inhumane conditions in which they work? Where is it to protect these union and labour rights? He's gone. That's the kind of Protector we don't need. What is very interesting here, of course, is the biography of the future Protector of citizens. I will, of course, get to know the public with some very interesting details. Namely, the future Citizens' Protector Zoran Pasalić graduated at 32 years of age, if it is true that he studied for 13 years, and that is what you will tell us who proposed him. I don't know why you're hiding this important information. This is good information because it means he's studied thoroughly for 13 years preparing for the highest function in this state. He passed his legal exam at 37 years old. This is just great data. He's a master's degree last year at 58, which means he respects lifelong learning, and doctoral studies are under way. Of course, at the time of the arrival of the SNS to power, 31.10.2013, he was appointed President of the Criminal Court of Appeal. So, just one of the presidents who's been put up and controlled by the SNS. He says in his biography an interesting formulation, that he has collaborated, and today he is working with certain international organisations, etc. I hope they are not the same ones that Ana Brnabic was working with, which are agents of foreign interest in Serbia, but also the promoter can let us know who Zoran Pasalic was working with from international organisations. This is where we come up with two really cute picantries that are related to the biography of Zoran Pasalić. We heard one and it looks really genius. The last one to cross from the north to the south, or from the south to the north as far as the Partizan and Star football clubs were concerned, was the legendary Sale Mutavi, who from the Red Star's leader crossed over to control Partizan fans by order of the SNS, but here we see that we have another outstanding candidate who managed to be in the administrations and the Red Star football club and the Partizan football club. But it's nothing to this picnic we now have here, to let you know, from Zoran Pasalic's biography. In 2011, several female workers, i.e. female female workers, the Chačka Criminal Court, both orally and in writing gave a statement to the Criminal Court in Chačka, then to the President of the Higher Criminal Court, Zoran Pasalic, in which they personally informed him of sexual harassment by the judge of the Criminal Court in Cačka, for which he did nothing, or informed the High Council of the judiciary, but kept all written statements to himself. After a while, when journalists wrote about it, he forwarded those statements to the High Council of the Judiciary, however, there was already a statute of limitations to conduct a disciplinary case against a judge who was reported by 10 witnesses, workers, judges, writers, trainees and clients themselves who had sexually harassed all of them, including a newspaper from that time, which you can see for yourself. All evidence is on the High Council of the Judiciary, and this judge is still unpunished to this day. It is interesting now, if in this way it will protect the citizens, as it has protected the rights of these 10 women who are sexually harassed in the Chačka Criminal Court, I assume it will then work effectively and remove them in the drawer of cases and in the place of the Protector of Citizens, especially if these cases have anything to do with the Serbian Progressive Party, which has nothing to do with this function. Be careful, he should never be president of the Criminal Court of Appeals, let alone be elected Protector of the Citizens. I've got a few quotes here, if you want, from these reports of women who are sexually harassed, the guy -- we could cut the time short and go to my office, we could go to Zlatibor, I could rent us a room, come with me, and you'll get out of practice, now I'm gonna come to you, I'm a powerful man, I can go five times for dinner, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18574	Mr. Beard!
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18575	These things were remembered by future Citizens Protector Zoran Pasalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18576	Mr. Obradovic, I will give you your time back, but please, of course you have a critical review, and that is your legitimate right, according to the proposal sent by the parliamentary groups of the ruling coalition, and that right no one wants to take away from you, but I ask you, by using this right, do not violate the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, precisely with the vocabulary and vocabulary that you used. Please proceed with the discussion, but proper discussion we have.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18577	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Personally, I think it is a big problem for the citizens of Serbia when one who is in charge of a higher state office to react to sexual harassment by a judge in a criminal court is not responding. That's the problem, and it's ruining this country's dignity, not when I find out to the public that we're going to choose the man who put away the testimony drawer of 10 women who are sexually harassed by one judge in different ways. So he protected his fellow judge, for no other reason. Maybe corrupt, maybe friendly, maybe these or those, and then it's justifiably asking whether, as the Guardian of Citizens, they're also going to push objects in a drawer that, for example, by some reason, are interesting to him or where he needs to protect someone he's told. Look, here's the key question next. If he is appointed by the Serbian Progressive Party, or the Serbian Progressive Party and will be appointed by the ruling majority in this National Assembly, he has certain obligations towards the Serbian Progressive Party. Does anyone in Serbia think that it is the Serbian Progressive Party that puts him in that place so that he really is the real Protector of the Citizens? Don't please, no one's gonna believe those fairy tales and those empty stories. Of course, the Serbian Progressive Party places it as the Protector of Citizens in order not to do its job, to protect the interests of the Serbian Progressive Party, not the citizens of Serbia. I think I've said enough about that candidate. What I'm sure -- he's not a good candidate for the Guardian of Citizens, but he's a good candidate for punishing citizens, because he worked in criminal courts and an even better candidate for cover-up of the ruling party's affairs. What is much more interesting to me and more important to the policy of the Serbian Dvori movement is the work of the Fiscal Council. It seems to me to be something that is of interest to the citizens of Serbia. So will the Fiscal Council continue to serve the interests of the ruling party or will it ever give some criticism to this disastrous economic policy? For example, I found, as I read in detail the work reports and the estimates of the draft budget by the Fiscal Council, one great thing from their 2016 budget assessment. The fiscal council, he says, estimates that the 2016 budget is insufficiently transparent. You should pay attention to this, it's good that you're quiet. So, the 2016 budget is insufficiently transparent and in this respect there has been no progress compared to the previous year, moreover, in some parts of their budget and accompanying documents have actually gone back to the information they had in the previous year. For example, and then the key thing, unlike the previous year, is now nowhere to see what individual commitments have been made to foreign investors. So, the Fiscal Council, headed by the members we should re-elected in this Fiscal Council, revealed in the 2016 budget of the Republic of Serbia the darkened part – the money that stands out from the taxpayers of the state of Serbia and gives to foreign investors instead of domestic economy and agriculture, without knowing who they're going to go to, who decides and who shares our money with foreign investors. As these days, the prime minister sided with the firm "Fiita" against strikers working in such conditions as they do there. So someone is using our country to help foreign companies, and our money should invest in domestic economy and agriculture. Be careful, this same Fiscal Council says this in its report, which is an evaluation of the draft budget – and nothing, continues to do its job at the Fiscal Council and does not feel the moral responsibility to resign because it advises the government, which first listens to it, which continues to do non-transparently, which continues to share our money as it wishes to the foreigners. Then what are you playing at the Fiscal Council? You're just getting paid. So if you work for your salary at the Fiscal Council, then tell us, we will never choose you as members of the Fiscal Council. If you have some part of the corrective factor, like you, say, had this sentence – excellent. But you obviously didn't have any role, the government didn't listen, you kept quiet about how the government works and you kept sitting on that Fiscal Council and getting money from the budget. These days, I have seen on the media Mr. Nikola Altiparmakov who has also found that it is indeed high time to break up with this devastating foreign investment policy that has not brought any shift. As you can see, now that they're in crisis, they're just going to report that they're asking for more from the budget, and in fact they're going to be denied our farmers, they're going to be denied our domestic entrepreneurship. The same is true of Mr Vladimir Vuckovic, who said in an interview in "Politica", and that is interesting – what about reducing tax burdens on the economy? Here, and we ask that – what about reducing tax burdens for the economy? He says elsewhere - let's open up some other topics. So what are we waiting for, Mr. Vukkovic, Mr. Pavlovic, Mr. Altiparmakov, why don't we open some other topics? Shall we continue to just continue what is a neoliberal economic policy, meaning, saving on the burden of our citizens, privatizing and selling our strategic natural and economic wealth, an import lobby that imports everything that we here can produce and kill the competition of our domestic economy, sharing our money from the budget to foreign investors? We don't need fiscal advice to advise us on anything, but we have the IMF. It's actually a fundamental question that I'm asking you here, respected citizens of Serbia, because I'm not sure it makes sense to address the ruling majority. They'll all raise their hands to the bells, as they always do, because they obviously don't think for themselves. If they were to think for themselves, they would not accept that they would name the person who studied for the Guardian for 13 years, who mastered at the age of 60, who, as we now see, had an average below 7, who was in the management of the Football Club Partizan and the Red Star Football Club and who protected the judge who was sexually harassing over 10 witnesses who witnessed it. So you yourself would withdraw this proposal and exclaim – Zoran Pasalić is unworthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18578	The People's MP Vladimir Orlic has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18579	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn’t expect him to be able to learn where he is or what the National Assembly is, in fact, a person who spoke to us and to the public who was following this again. Of course, I mean the on-call lacquere, the doss regime that has worked through half of the sentence something quite dossy at the very beginning, it's probably hard for him to say anything positive or conclude on the subject of that contract in Fiat, which is exactly one of the wonderful fruits of that dossical regime, which, by the way, is both said and politically created and funded, and with which they are today socializing and political co-operation, that anything says positive about it, and that after the spilling of noise and anger at the expense of this government, which has nothing to do with it, neither onions or onions smelled, and those strikes that were taking place. And, I'm terribly sorry, here it is, that my heart is breaking that dossal elbow seems unsatisfactory by the fact that the strike is broken and that it's still talking. Together, workers and government are talking to company owners to find a suitable solution. If he's unhappy with that, I'm not surprised, but I'm surprised, I must admit, here with a lot of criticism he's talking about the former Citizens' Protector, Sasha Jankovic, right? Well, he says, he is not satisfied with his view of Srebrenica, Kosovo and Metohija, could be about Vojvodina. The question is, ladies and gentlemen, why is he hugging and kissing that man? He embraced and kissed, and Saša Jankovic's views on Srebrenica, and on genocide there, he embraced and kissed at the same time, and Saša Jankovic's position, that sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija was nothing more than a word and nothing more, did he embrace and kiss the views of the separatists from Vojvodina who speak worst of both Republika Srpska and of Vojvodina itself, our autonomous province. I don't expect there to be any sense here, because when we hear that there's a question of foreign interest agents here, and it's more than clear that it's a man who on the one hand can't decide whether it serves the interests of the Hos that come from one side or the interests of large-Bulgarian nationalists on the other. Why do you expect anything smarter than that at the forest, "note ben", ladies and gentlemen, has to decide, and that's how I end up, Mr. Chairman, when he talks to us next time, is he coming from the position of the recent Pernar or from the new position of the current Tuta Bulgarian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18580	Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. We only have a moment to respect the order, and first we have an orderly violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Milimir Vujadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18581	Thank you, Chairman. I will draw attention to the violation of Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure, which concerns the dignity of the National Assembly. I think that more than once, MP Obradovic tried to mislead this respected House, but also citizens of the Republic of Serbia, raising a few questions that we simply couldn't determine who they were referring to. By criticising the work of the so far-time Citizens' Protector, I guess Mr. Jankovic, he listed dozens of things he should have done and didn't do. The question arises – why, today, what is the issue of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? What is the question referred to to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia from this place when the same Guardian of Citizens was also his friend who on May 31st of this year, so warmly hugged and kissed him at that so-called spontaneous gathering, I guess they were joined by some strange love, but shared hatred for the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. I guess that's when he was supposed to ask him what it was he didn't do? I guess that's when he should have asked him about attitudes in Srebrenica for opinions on Republika Srpska, about what he was trying to ask today as a question to the MPs in the Republika Srpska Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18582	You pointed out a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I didn't understand which member. Article 107? I'll try to explain the questions that you've asked me, not Mr. Obradovic. Mr Obradovic, I said in a legitimate way that belongs to him as a representative of the opposition parliamentary group, spoke about what are the points of today's agenda. I didn't interrupt it, I have to admit, because in one part he was talking about, I agree, because I think he was talking about the former Citizens' Protector and what he didn't do, and that's Sasa Jankovic. But I have always expected that after that he will also make a proposal for his parliamentary group, which is once again their legitimate right, to let fellow Members of Parliament know that there is a better proposal than what we are talking about today. The moment I thought he was using an inappropriate dictionary and was heading towards the collapse of the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I only took the opportunity to point it out. That's why I don't think I hurt a member of 107, and I'm asking you whether you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18583	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18584	Thank you. No, I didn't hear at the beginning that a colleague called on article 107. I didn't personally hear which member he called, so I asked which member of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18585	Article 107(2) has been injured.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18586	You can't point.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18587	The apostle spoke of dignity, and I speak of the insult of the messengers of the people. You are still chairing the old practice that Mr. Bosko Obradovic is constantly insulting himself, this time from representatives of the ruling coalition, and you are not responding to it. So, stories were told about Tuta Bulgaria, Srebrenica, and the ruling coalition and its current president, the president of the state, funded it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18588	First of all, Mr. Kostic, you pointed to a member, in violation of the Rules of Procedure, of a member who, during his previous presentation, pointed out by counterpart Milimir Vujadinovic. So you can't point to the same member. He was talking in general about article 107, as far as I could tell. I cannot allow you to use the stated breach of the Rules of Procedure to continue to replicate with the honourable fellow Members. First of all, he has a representative of the motion. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. ) But the proposer's representative always had the advantage, and before you had a replica of his colleague Neđo Jovanovic, he appeared after your presentation, and then you will certainly get the word. So, firstly, the proposing representative, MP Aleksandra Tomic, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, the proposal for a decision on the election of members of the Fiscal Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18589	Thank you, Chairman. In the discussion, we heard that the choice of the Fiscal Council should actually cover SNS's devastating policy, and then that they are worse than the IMF, on the other hand that the government does not listen to those assessments, and on the third hand they quote their members as saying that the government is hiding some subsidies in the worst non-transparent way and that in fact this government is not reducing the cost of employers, i.e. to relax the economy. Now, we didn't understand whether certain authorised promoters support proposals for this Fiscal Council, for members of the Fiscal Council or dispute, but I would not say they dispute if they are calling for what they are doing. But let's see what it is left to the SNS to do during the functioning of the Fiscal Council from 2011 until 2012. So, the SNS along with the SPS took over the government to run a state that had 15.6 billion euros in public debt. In addition, 4.2 billion interest debts were left on loans they raised. Then, one billion euros of VAT that has not been paid. Then, 1.6 billion cross-sections. Then, 400m euros in subsidies for non-refundable farmers, the government until 2012. Then, 200m euros based on court rulings, military pensioners then signed by Minister Sutanovac and conditioned that this is how it is done. Is it so, that military pensioners are not given pensions, that in a certain way they are levelled with civilian pensions, and so they have acquired the right to seek practically the subsequent difference that they have. So all of this when you add up, 7.6 billion euros, plus 4 years of 750m euros went to firms in restructuring. That is 10.6m euros, with this 15.6 public debt, you come practically to a figure left in the country's amanet and to implement certain economic reforms so that this country will function in a sustainable way, and that we can continue to live and work normally in line with the functioning of the daily life of Serbian citizens. Now that you have the opportunity to open up factories, to create such a political environment where foreign direct investors will want to come to Serbia, open new factories, so you have to change certain laws. In the last four years, we have dealt with economic reforms and changed over 600 legislative acts, 200 of which were certainly related to economic reforms. After that, we come to the conclusion that over 50 factories were opened, but could not work unless there was certain support, subsidies, means opening new jobs. Why do we have subsidies that the government can't show to the end? Well, because we've inherited the Fiat and the Fiat Treaty, but also the YURA and other factories that are made under contracts that are a big business secret, because if you go public with those contracts, you're responsible for giving away business secrets and the state from the budget will have to pay fines that aren't small at all. Therefore, we would be in a position today if not only by paying the fines you were simply creating an insecure business environment in Serbia that investors would not even want to come, which was the case by 2012. This is the answer when we talk about subsidies, and when we talk about reducing the cost of employers, simply taxing certain legal proposals, we open up the possibility of reducing the cost of the employer, especially for private businesses, then coming up with these, basic questions from what? So, if you have good business results, and the business results have proved to be good in 2016 and they open in the first quarter, that is, in the first half of 2017, only at the end of the year when you see certain results in business, can you say that we can bring really positive measures that will be in terms of tax collection, which will normally make the state less income, but therefore employers will have less costs. And that's the answer to these questions, which is why the Fiscal Council is opening up certain questions that he may have no answers to, but he is asking the Government in public and the Government of the Answering, or the Ministry of Finance answers this way. In new cases, the Fiscal Council is too sharp and in many cases it raises the scales and does it on purpose, not only because it forces the government to simply follow it, but simply wants to show that it wants to set high goals with its expert opinion, because that you listened to these goals by 2012 would not have left all of the debts I was talking about. So, I think that in a certain way, an unprincipled attack has been carried out in a politically inadequate way in general, any rhetoric of use on the fiscal council and economic policy of Serbia and shows one general degree of ignorance of the current situation at all, and that is, in fact, probably the goal of a political outcome of anonymity, so that some percentages that you have received may have raised to 3%, that you would be popular in the people, because it is always best to attack the strongest to create your own credibility in society. Now, that's what Serbian citizens today recognize and that's why they'll never give support to such political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18590	Thank you, colleague Tomic. Your colleague Jovanovic, did you report to you as an authorised representative of a parliamentary group or a replica as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group? Mr. Obradic, you have a basis for replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18591	Thank you, Chairman. I think that the exchange of thoughts is always useful for democracy and for parliamentaryism, and that freedom of speech is one of the most important institutions that we in the Dvora defend, here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of the penalties and warnings that we are exposed to. So thank you for this opportunity to answer, because I am in more replicas and injuries to the Rules of Procedure in different ways of calling. I'll answer only two things. The first concerns Sasa Jankovic and I am pleased that the ruling majority has caught on my criticisms of the Citizens' Protectors in the previous period, as the ruling majority headed by the Serbian Progressive Party has chosen Sasa Jankovic for the second time as the Citizens' Protector. So, if you have something disputed with the previous Citizens' Protector, Sasa Jankovic, please contact Alexander Vukic and the ruling majority, who has chosen him as the Citizens' Protector for the second time. So that's proof of how hypocritical you are and how much one you're talking about, the other you think you're doing, the third you're doing. As for Tuta Bulic, it is even more interesting and interesting, because in the meantime, this attempt to disqualify Mr Vladimir Orlic, deputy president of the Serbian Progressive Party, we are here on the "passion of the Car", which our people, called and harassed to receive in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia representatives of the parliamentary Republican forces from Bulgaria, among other things, as well as the replacement of the President of the Bulgarian Assembly, that the same party, who proposed the Orthodox alliance and their much greater and more serious co-operation between the Serbs and Bulgarians, would praise the idea, which, right here in the conversation with us, exposed everything that is bad between our two nations. It's another evidence of hypocrisy, not to say defiance, and in any case one inaccuracy of the ruling party.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18592	Thank you, Mr. Obradich. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18593	Thanks again. Yeah, it had to end with a note about hypocrisy, about seditions, and so on. There was nothing else to be expected, for everyone scratches where it it itches, even to mention “a dog’s car. ” I really don't know what kind of car we can drive someone who's given themselves a role as a poodle of Dosscan candidates and this Jankovic who I've mentioned before, and also Vuk Jeremic, and that's why I have great examples. He didn't give us any answers, but instead he offered us completely disillusioned pictures of you imagining someone from the Serbian Progressive Party has declared to support those people who are directly against Serbia's sovereignty and here I think of these great Bulgarian nationalists. Who from the Serbian Progressive Party heard him say that? There's no one here. It may have been a dream or wish he had dreamed, but that's not there, I'm sorry. Let him give us an answer at some point, he doesn't have to now, because we don't like to spread the debate beyond need and agenda. What limits does the Republic of Serbia have in its professional opinion? Is it within those borders that the Bulgarian nationalists advocate or within those borders that the great Croatian nationalists advocate? Does he ever say that he would negotiate the status of Kosovo and Metohija, he's trying to tell us that he's not sure exactly who our borders are either? What is there to negotiate if Kosovo and Metohija are known to be part of Serbia? It's one of the dilemmas he imposed, just not on himself on the subject of hypocrisy and whether or not someone got caught or interfered, what he said earlier, it doesn't matter. Sam says there is an obligation to repay someone he has chosen, so his Sasa Jankovic is just living proof that this is not the case. In 2012, he was given a mandate to care for Serbian citizens, and he did exactly the opposite. She takes care of herself and her... and obedient poodles. Right? That's right. I'm not surprised because it's all announced. Ladies and gentlemen, last year when the same dossa Jankovic came to a assembly committee, it was the parliamentary group of the man, who persistently challenges replicas, and the boss of thorns was full of praise for that Sasa Jankovic and suggested that his report be printed and shared by Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18594	Mr. Obradovic, I think the debate is going in the wrong direction, and I want us to go back to what is the agenda, which is the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency board, from the list submitted by the authorised legislators, a proposal for a decision to elect a fiscal council, a proposal for a decision to elect the Citizens' Protectors. It is precisely, with this objective, that I will take a short break of two minutes, and after that we will continue with the presidents and the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18596	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and MPs, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, as always, will talk about the subject that is on the agenda, and today we are doing it with a special relationship, because the three points of the agenda that we have brought together today in the debate are more than significant for us, because it is also an opportunity to remember how many independent state bodies, as we call coloquially those bodies established by our Constitution and our laws, mean for the functioning of our system, above all, from that point of view of respect for the human rights of all citizens, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Serbia. These are the bodies that, under the laws that we adopted in this high house, exercise control of the work of the executive government. These are the bodies that carry out or perform certain tasks in the domain of the executive government, which we have entrusted them with, with being autonomous in this. These state authorities are most often separated from the government and jobs should be carried out on their own, on the basis of a law governing their establishment, their work, and surveillance, as you know, we do as the National Assembly through parent, or competent committees. I would like to share with you a reminder that the establishment of independent state bodies started in Serbia more than ten years ago, in line with EU recommendations, because, of course, in these countries they recognized the importance of independent state bodies much earlier. I would remind you that in 1809 in Sweden, that difficult word, translated as the Guardian of Citizens, the People's Lawyer, or something like that, in the Swedish language, means that it is a person with a hearing for the people. So very nicely derived from these Swedish words. The experience they're 200 years old is something we need to draw as a benefit. As you know, for the first time in 2004, a Law on free access to information of public importance was introduced, the Commissioner for the Protection of Information from Public Meaning, who, by adopting the Law on the Protection of Personality, was extended jurisdiction, and in 2005, we adopted the Law on the Protector of Citizens and established the Protector of Citizens at the Republic level, with the fact that even the Law on Local Self-Government of 2002, which I would like to stress, because it is very, very rarely mentioned and spoken, in 2002, the possibility was given to establish both local and regionally these institutions, therefore, the Institute of the Citizens' Protectors. The Autonomous province of Vojvodina established the Manchester in 2003, and we also have the Simeone in certain municipalities and cities of the Republic of Serbia. The trustee for the protection of equality has existed since 2009. At first, all these institutions encountered huge problems, from a vague process of constitution, inadequate workrooms, with this in relation to the number of employees needed and these problems have been solved over many years so that the working conditions are equally good now, we can say freely, with all the representatives and institutions of these so-called. independent state bodies. I think it is important to say that some of these bodies, which are provided directly for by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, on the basis of which we have also passed special laws on their establishment, are also my colleagues who spoke, reminded, on behalf of authorised applicants, by the National Bank, the DRI, the Citizens' Protector, the VSS, the Republic Public Prosecutor, the DVT. In addition to these bodies, there are other bodies, organisations and bodies that do not provide for the Constitution, but are established by special laws, which we have adopted here in the National Assembly, in areas of particular importance for national security, public finances, the availability of large state resources, such as energy, natural goods, radio-difusion, telecommunications, as well as for the consistent implementation of constitutional principles, which guarantee citizens the protection of human and minority rights and prohibit any kind of discrimination. These are the Commissioner for Public Information, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, the Fiscal Council, the Securities Commission, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Management Board of the Republic of Telecommunications Agency, the Competition Protection Commission, the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, etc. All of these bodies report their work to the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall be informed of their work through the report, which at least once a year submits to the National Assembly for consideration, as reports may be required more frequently, depending on specific occasions and events. We have regulated our Rules of Procedure in Articles 237 to 241 by the committee in charge of reviewing the report and establishing a proposal for conclusions, i.e. recommendations with measures to improve the situation in the area. What is particularly important for us in the SDPS is the relationship between Parliament and national institutions for the protection of human rights. I would remind myself and refer to something very rarely mentioned, and I think it is very important when it comes to improving human rights, and these are Belgrade principles in relation to parliaments and national human rights institutions. This document was adopted at an international conference in Belgrade in our House of National Assembly in February 2012 organised by the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, the International Committee of National Institutions for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Citizens' Protectors. Starting with the fact that independent bodies and parliaments can benefit greatly from one another in fulfilling their obligations to improve the protection of human rights, conference participants, and I would remind you, these were representatives of institutions from a large number of countries that are members of the UN, adopted certain principles, i.e. guidelines on how this communication and co-operation between Parliament and the Citizens' Protectors should be developed. I'd single out a few guidelines for this opportunity. Parliaments should develop a legal framework for independent human rights institutions, parliaments should constantly consider applying law on the establishment of independent institutions, parliaments should provide financial independence of human rights institutions, ensure that they have sufficient resources to perform the functions that will be given the laws. Independent institutions should advise and make recommendations to parliament on human rights issues, including the international obligations that we as a state of Serbia have made, and the commitments with respect to human rights. Independent institutions can provide information and advice to parliaments to help them carry out their supervisory and control function. Independent institutions and parliaments should work together to encourage the development of a culture of respect for human rights. Here, when we mention the control function, you'll agree, dearly respected colleagues and colleagues, that this is one of the functions that is very important, very important, which we as MPs don't do very often. We are often reminded and we say that we are a legislative body because we are passing laws, which is true, how we are a representative body because we represent the citizens who chose us, which is also true, however, the control function, is actually the strongest instrument that the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Serbia has given us in our hands. We must, with the help and co-operation of independent state authorities, be this control factor, be that supervisory authority that controls and implements how we are and whether the laws we adopt in this assembly are implemented, whether these laws are violated, who violates them and whether certain sanctions exist and are imposed on those who break the laws. We passed our Law on the Protector of Citizens in 2005. It represents a good legal framework in which we can identify most of what is stated in these Belgrade principles, which I was just talking about. I would remind you that according to this law, the Protector of citizens is concerned about the protection and promotion of human, minority rights and freedoms. The protection of citizens is an authority that protects the rights of citizens and controls the work of the government. The citizen's protector is independent and independent in the conduct of the law-established business and no one has the right to influence its work and conduct. The Protector for his work corresponds to the National Assembly. It's been more than 11 years since this law was applied. It is undeniable that in practice certain issues have also been raised that should be regulated in a different way in a near future. By bringing amendments and by supplementing the Law on the Protector of Citizens, something we have committed ourselves to by a chapter in Action Plan 23. Given the role of Citizens' Protectors and the role of Parliament in the protection of human rights, regular consultations between the Protectors of Citizens and Parliament, or parliamentary bodies dealing with the protection of human rights, are necessary. I think we will all agree that most parliamentary committees in their work cycle should depart from the protection of human rights in different forms of life and work. These consultations and exchanges of views should exist even when there is no agreement on certain issues, because first of all, we need to hear each other. We have to understand each other, we have to respect each other, whether we're saying the same thing, whether we think alike or not, it seems to me less important. The Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, which I chair, is the Assembly Committee that is most focused on this co-operation, and we have always insisted on it. We are from the very formation, I will remind you, since 2012, there is only a Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, each year we have considered the reports of the Protectors of Citizens. Our co-operation wasn't just about considering these reports. We've had a series of other continuous joint activities. The findings and recommendations of independent bodies serve us as an indicator of the direction in which our activities should go and to which phenomena and problems we should act as the Committee of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. The issues we were dealing with were different, first of all we wanted to identify and point out the problems that we have as a society in relation to human rights violations, unfortunately of the still very pronounced problem of violence against women, and in this regard the conduct of institutions with general and special protocols to combat domestic violence, through the protection of persons with disabilities, the rights of national minorities, the need for deinstitutionalisation, the threat of the rights of LGBT persons, especially the right to gather, as well as the rights of national minorities. Especially from the highlighted one very important segment of our work, which is these famous sessions outside the seat, which the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly allowed us, and the public hearings, which we have organised just beginning with the knowledge and exchange of opinions and information with independent state bodies, not only with the Protector of Citizens, but also with the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and with the Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning. I would also like to highlight as a good practice holding joint sessions with other committees. We had a session with the Committee on European Integration to discuss the situation of LGBT persons in Serbia, but also the public hearings that we organised together, and on which we also discussed the report of the Citizens' Protectors on the national torture prevention mechanism, which we discussed together with the Committee on the Rights of the Child, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and local self-government. It is obvious that independent human rights institutions should have their place in our system, because they are an important ally of the state to create a society where everyone will be equal, in which human rights will be protected, primarily to protect human rights from the state authorities and the institutions that violate them. At the same time, they are also an important corrective factor. I would like to remind you of one such example, when the Citizens' Protector and the Trustee for the Protection of Equality responded to the provision of the Law on how to determine the maximum number of employees in the public sector, from which it came, I would remind you, I quote, that women by law cease working rather than men and we have adopted a joint request, and the Constitutional Court has declared it unconstitutional, as a discriminatory provision. So, co-operation, communication, joint work of Parliament, committees in the Serbian Parliament with independent state bodies can always deliver results. I will remind you, as well as the recent European Parliament Resolution of 14 June 2017, which, among other things, points to the importance of the independence of regulatory bodies, including the Citizens' Protector. Authorities are called on to fully protect the independence of regulatory bodies and provide its full political and administrative support for their work. Our independent institutions, our state independent bodies are still young institutions and in relation to some other institutions, not to mention Sweden, which I mentioned at the very beginning of my presentation, where the Swedish Ombudsman exists and was established in 1809. We still have much to do in Serbia to strengthen confidence in these independent state institutions. That process must be mutual. That is why I believe that the new Citizens' Protector will contribute to this and that this institution and the National Assembly of Serbia will be partners and be the closest associates in the work that we share and that we will work to ensure that all state authorities work in the best interests of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, primarily by protecting their human rights and their freedoms. Therefore, the SDPS as part of the ruling coalition, of course, and in the voting day will support the proposed amendments and additions, i.e. personal solutions related to the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee and the proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Fiscal Council, as well as a proposal for a decision to elect a future Citizens' Protector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18597	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, acting unanimously. 27th and 87th centuries 2nd and 3rd. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has the People's Messenger Fatmir Hasani.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18598	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM-PD Group supports Zoran Pasalic as the Protector of Citizens as an independent institution. We expect good co-operation and good protection of citizens and expect good protection of minority rights, by advocating our position, because the level of democracy is measured by giving and protecting the rights of the minority. Albania's minority faces a particular problem from other minorities, which is not recognising diplomas acquired in Kosovo. This solution can be found through Albania, because young college students are denied employment, I think it's one of the most fundamental rights we can see. That's what we ask of all the factors, to enable us and to help us solve this problem, because with this problem of our young college graduates, we prevent them from hiring. That's why they have to move out of these municipalities. So we expect the Protectors of citizens and other factors to help us with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18599	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18600	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, today we have before us a theme on members of the council, very important for democracy in Serbia of independent institutions and republican authorities, which represent the lacmus paper of democracy in a country which, unfortunately, is by this government in the past few years and is completely buried in Serbia. The institutions whose members we should choose today and which we should talk about today have, in the past five years, been through one difficult struggle for the survival of these institutions, facing, of course, SNS's wishes to suppress any criticism, every different opinion in order to bring the privatisation of the state to an end. So, first of all, I have to notice that there's no candidate here today for the new Protector of Citizens. I expected that, like my colleagues who thank me for being here today, from other bodies, he would sit here and hear what they were saying and what MPs were talking about in the National Assembly, because on the basis of Article 138. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is clearly prescribed that it corresponds to the National Assembly for its work. He could at least attend and hear what the MPs would say about the Ombudsman and his work in the coming period. As for the first members of the Anti-Corruption Agency, I will begin first on the subject. So, the SNS came to power in 2012 and it just came to the story of fighting corruption, it came to the wings that corruption in Serbia would be eradicated, that it would professionalise the work of public enterprises and institutions, that everything that was bad by 2012 would no longer happen again, that simply independent institutions would do their job professionally and according to the law. What happened in practice? It happened quite the opposite of that. It happened that we were able to see a school example of government disrespect for the independent institutions of the Republic of Serbia, according to the independent republican authorities of the Republic of Serbia. We have 22 in Serbia today, making independent republican authorities, which independent bodies. Of all of them, there are still a few who have not put SNS on their paws and fully privatised them and placed them in the post of their political campaign and placed them in the role of playing in an orchestra conducted by Aleksandar Vucic for five years in Serbia. So, as for these institutions and the Anti-Corruption Agency, whose members we are choosing today, there was no respect for this institution in the previous period, which should be synonym for fighting corruption and says that 22 months, the president of the Assembly did not put on the agenda the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency. We are today, as we discuss these members at the Anti-Corruption Agency Council, instead of nine members, as long as that body needs to have, we have two members. Twenty-two months didn't put the president of parliament on the agenda. Also, for two years, MPs have not received a report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency that should be discussed here. This is the attitude of the ruling regime towards independent institutions and bodies. Those we have to choose today or tomorrow, I don't want to speak personally about those names, they all meet the criteria to do this job at the Anti-Corruption Agency, but the question is, are they aware that they accept the role of being an extended arm of the current SNS regime and are aware that they will have to suffer criticism and pucks in their work if they point to some violations and corrupt actions by the representatives of the authorities. We had in the previous period examples of how it ended and what is the epilogue of the Anti-Corruption Agency to resolve Nikola Selakovic because of conflicts of interest. We had an example of Sinishi Mali and an affair with 24 apartments and everything that was launched at the Anti-Corruption Agency has not yet been epilogued in that case. Why? Because we don't even have the Agency's composition. The agency doesn't have a director today, and since New Year's, there hasn't been a director. Therefore, we cannot expect that it will be an independent body that will professionally carry out its work, because in this job and the responsibilities they have towards the citizens of Serbia should primarily deal with power, those who today have executive functions in the Republic of Serbia and who through these executive functions may be in some conflict with the law. These members who are a proposal for the Anti-Corruption Agency Council should also know that they will not work under the new anti-corruption law that Aleksandar Vukic promised in 2012, so in 2014 in his exposé, so in 2016 in his exposé. We are now in 2017 and still do not have a new anti-corruption law. So there was no political will, no desire to adopt the law. You will also work without a law on the origin of the property, which was also announced in 2012. What are you afraid of? If these before 2012, as you call them, were thieves, as they stole, and the rest, let you pass that law, so that all of you, before 2012, and you today, the Gods who rule, we see who is and in what way you acquired that property. Also, you will be working in a country that is under the anti-corruption index at the beginning. I will remind you that in 2012, Aleksandar Vucic said that scandalously, in which place Serbia is in the anti-corruption index, and today five years later, it is in an even worse place than it was in 2012. So I'm only talking about empty promises and announcements that we've been listening to for five years and lies of the current regime and the government that Serbian citizens are supposed to expect. What I must quote, the 2012 SNS promise, the SNS is going to fight unfortunately against corruption, abuse of political position and the creation of monopoly, therefore, that it will be synonym to fight corruption. In these five years, it has become a synonym for corruption because of many uncleared matters, because of many of the affairs that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are familiar with, and that is probably something we can expect to continue. It is now just continuing to put full control of these institutions by selecting similar people on these functions. As for the Anti-Corruption Agency, and it had some different arches in the previous period, it also had a violation of the law. Today you have the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, under which members of political parties cannot be the head of public enterprises, and today here in this House is the director of the "Post-Serbia" public enterprise, which is also the president of the PUPS Parliament club. It was agreed by the Committee on Administrative Affairs, and there is no dispute, and it was just a matter of work that some president of the municipality could be a member of parliament at the same time. It's not legal, not to mention other cases. The Anti-Corruption Agency in the previous period has very often cast an emphasis on respecting the law for some of the jobs worth a few tens of thousands of euros, and for jobs, securities contracts, not jobs, three billion euros, such as "Beograda on Water", it goes under the radar, without public procurement, without respect for the law. Simply, it is declared the strategic interest of the Republic of Serbia and then we say – here we will give some lex specialism, some Arabs, or who knows who to invest or not invest in, but nobody knows it anymore, in downtown Belgrade. Also, the country in Vojvodina, 10.5 thousand hectares of non-existent, phantom company, etc. The Anti-Corruption Agency also failed to carry out its work in the domain of public enterprises and we are all aware of what was going on in the previous period both in the EPS and in the ESM, how many affairs, how many double functions there were. But it's not the Agency's fault, the problem is in a government that doesn't allow the Agency to work because it didn't want to elect members of the Agency, it hasn't set up a director since it's been gone, it's just that it's always kept somewhere by the authorities, because the Agency doesn't answer for the fight against corruption, because it can't deal with the opposition, because the opposition doesn't rule Serbia, the opposition doesn't run public enterprises, the opposition has done it before, now you do it. You do not respond to anyone who should control you but simply act as if you have inherited Serbia and that you can do whatever you want. So you have the situation in the EPS, let's say, as we can see, that form that was responsible for the increased electricity bill affair in December last year, it got the same job again and it works and you blamed it for being responsible for the bills for electricity paid by citizens. So, laws are passed, you adopt laws because you have a majority, you announce spectacularly that these laws will solve some problems, and then you go deaf on your own about these laws, and you don't respect those laws that you adopt on your own because you act arrogantly because you have privatised the state of Serbia. As for the Anti-Corruption Agency and the members to be elected in these two days, I am also telling both Serbian and Serbian citizens that without an operational, stable, independent and professional anti-corruption agency stories about fighting corruption, only a dead letter remains on paper. It's only for your campaign to point your fingers at someone else. Now I hear fellow MPs talking about some before 2012 who were doing something. You've been in power since 2012, we're in the second half of 2017, and it's the time when you can call on others. You had all the time and all the power in Serbia to change everything that was bad in five years. In the end, you promised the citizens that you would be better than those who were before you, and you before you were never in a position to have an absolute majority. You led Alexander Vukic, had an absolute majority to change in Serbia everything that was bad. Unfortunately, none of that happened. Whether out of ignorance or because you didn't have a wish or an interest. As far as the Citizens' Protector proposal is concerned, it is also a very important topic and I am sorry that the gentleman is not there, at least he would at least not be able to answer me a few questions that need to be considered in the next period. Looking at then Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, today's President of the Republic, I heard him talking about the institution of the Protector of Citizens, that Serbia doesn't need it at all. More specifically, he said that the institution is actually serving that the EU is salting our minds and that some EU members do not have an institution of the Protectors of Citizens, which is not true. That's not true. That's exactly what happened with Sasha Jankovic, whom you criticized. You didn't want anyone to feel sorry for you or how the elected president said when he talked about not running for President of the Republic, but that he wanted to choose a president who didn't want to yell at him, and then changed his mind and ran for office, so you don't want independent institutions that will be able to spell out the current regime and the current government. Also, I find it even weirder that Mr Pasalic accepted to be a proposal for the Citizens' Protector from that party that itself says the function is irrelevant. Then why would you accept to be some icaban if you are aware that you will not be able to professionally do your job or accept the role of simply shutting down the function of the Protector of Citizens in a quiet way and protect the current authority and representatives of the current government in Serbia instead of citizens? I will also be interested in the next period in which the new Citizens' Protector will be on the Savala case and in the case of the "Helicopter" which you have come into conflict with the representatives of these independent institutions. Sasa Jankovic was not a politician, but you forced him to do so, although you proposed him as a Florist, he was responsible and professionally doing his job until until you asked him not to behave responsibly or professionally, and then chose this second time to deal with politics, to change things in Serbia, not to obey the regime of Alexander Vukic, which he wanted all the time in Serbia. Also, when we adopted the budget last year on the subject – the salary of the Citizens' Protector, I remember very well the amendment of the SNS representative, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, whom you asked to reduce the salary of the Citizens' Protector, although other laws decide on it, even what Mr. Martinovic then said that the difference in the salary of the Protector and the salary of the Prime Minister should be paid to the Fund for the Treatment of Sick Children abroad, which I absolutely support. Now I'm just wondering if you'll be consistent and continue with that story of yours in the next period and probably regulate the profits, as it will have less work to do with the representatives of independent institutions. As far as Mr Pasalic's proposal is concerned, very little is known about him. Our proposal was Mr Milos Jankovic who is V.D. The public defender and what work he has done in the institution so far. Unfortunately, you turned him down because he didn't like SNS. You're setting up someone who's willing to be SNS, and that's not going to be an independent institution. Mr Pasalic himself said to the institution that he was not very familiar because he did not follow what the representatives of the institution were doing in the previous period. So we can't even expect him to do it seriously. I only know him from a few tours on one "To Coffee at Gjuka" show, where he visited and talked about other topics several times. As far as the Fiscal Council is concerned, it is also an institution that has an important role, especially in this situation, when economic parameters in Serbia are defeating everyone, except those you want to paint on your traffic media and present prosperity in Serbia, that citizens in Serbia today should not trust themselves and their own pocket but should believe what you serve through the media. In the previous period, the fiscal council spoke critically to the government, but all of what he said was critical of absolutely none of you took into account, or a representative of the executive government, nor did he comment on it, but therefore he used the Fiscal Council when they needed it, as it happened on March 21st in the middle of a campaign for the President of the Republic, that then candidate Aleksandar Vukic was on the show with Pavle Petrovic from the Fiscal Council and praised the incredible results on the economic plan in the Republic of Serbia. I expect to see now what will happen to all the failed promises made by Aleksandar Vukic, as well as this last one that the average salary in Serbia will be 500 euros by the end of this year, which one of the members of the Fiscal Council said was actually impossible. In other words, another one in a series of lies starts from 2012, right here. So, the suma sumarum continues to play and destroy the institutions of the Republic of Serbia system. By collapsing the institutions of the system, you're destroying Serbia, you're making the order that suits you, so that you can act like Serbia is a private state. One day there will be a moment when everyone will be responsible for what is happening today in Serbia, I mean everything in power and those who rule Serbia today. I'm sorry that you don't understand it today and you don't realize that there will come a moment when citizens will understand all these lies, empty promises, and when citizens will understand the responsibility you have during these years of your rule and that the collapsed institutions, the ruined system of values, are the things that are most difficult to establish in an orderly democratic society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18601	Thank you. Mr. Orlic, you've reached out to the replica, only an eye allow one explanation on my part, as chairman. I think I owe it, primarily for the sake of the public, because there are certain findings here that are not in line with the Rules of Procedure and the procedures of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, first of all, Mr Alexic, I didn't want to interrupt you while you were speaking, but when it comes to the agenda and specifically about the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency, with a list submitted by authorised promoters, today's session is attended by Janko Lazarevic, VKS Vice President Radoslav Sretenovic, President DRI, Dusan Petrovic, Secretary of the Socio-Economic Council and Vladimir Radomirovic, UNS President. First of all, it's for the public. I know most MPs know and know the procedures, but for the sake of the public, because no precise claims and findings have been made. As regards the proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Fiscal Council, the proposal was defined by the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. A representative of the motion is present at the session, and this is Professor Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. When it comes to the proposal for a decision on the choice of the Citizens' Protector, which you have just launched, which was submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, Mr Pasalic does not have the opportunity to attend the session and has no opportunity to respond until the moment he is elected. But as a promoter, there is the chairman of the Committee of Resorship, Mr. George Komlenski. Here you are, Mr. Orlic, now you have the possibility of a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18602	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. These are good information that you gave to those who apparently needed it. If we're talking about what they might know, or don't know, it seems to me that I've heard the words before, at the very end of the exhibition where God knows how many times the Serbian Progressive Party is mentioned again, that the moment will come to bear responsibility – well, the moment has come, ladies and gentlemen. Do they not know it, or do they know it, and that is why those who have caused the replica mention it, those whom We have taught on many occasions to make sure of what they call and what they want, because it can be realized for them, and then it will be awry! The moment has come that when we talk about this corruption, it is in this country and in front of its citizens. For example, that is why it happens to be judged to a person like Miroslav Miskovic. As a result, today those who are nervous and noisy again have the need to defend him and to represent his interests, including the National Assembly, with no shame or shame. Because the moment has come. The time has come to be condemned and some president of the local self-government of a municipality that belonged again to the "yellow company" conglomerate, and to make someone feel nervous today and talk about responsibilities. One we already named a month ago, here, I see in the paper two days ago, another one. Legally, both of them. Those who head towards the door don't be nervous, I don't mean them. They say he's getting ready for the third one these days. It fits, ladies and gentlemen, and for what people didn't know. So for example, when someone criticises Belgrade on the water just because I was unable to do it, he didn't have the capacity to do it and he wanted it, should we remind him that they called it, what was it – Manhattan on Savi or Manhattan on the Balkans? They wanted it, and they knew it was good, but they didn't know it. It's also political. It is also answered, for example, when a nonsensical like – someone forced Sasha Jankovic to deal with politics – and who? As I read and interpret things, perhaps the one who sent him out in 2010 to promote himself in front of a foreign factor, to be an unofficial representative of Serbia on the assignment of "Nobel" to deceive the People's Republic of China...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18603	Thank you, Mr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18604	Just one more sentence, Mr. Chairman. And this someone who put the government's resources at the disposal of Sasa Jankovic is Vuk Jeremic. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18605	Mr. Milojits, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18606	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm advertising Article 106 that the speaker can only talk about the point of the search. We've heard about everything and everything here, and about 2010, we just haven't heard anything about the agenda. I understand that. I understand that gentlemen from the Serbian Progressive Party are nervous, because even if I had a meeting with a cleaning assistant in the US administration, I'd be nervous. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18607	Mr. Milojich, you don't have a chance to speak. I won't allow you to abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18608	This is how it is done when the real president visits, as Zoran Djindjic did, and not as Vukic for having a meeting with the cleaning assistant.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18609	No, I didn't allow it. Mr. Milojicic didn't even speak. He didn't have a chance, the microphone's off. He wasn't talking, so I couldn't do any damage to the Rules of Procedure. So, Mr. Milojicic, you tried to abuse the Rules of Procedure and to deal with political inexperience in your own way. I won't let you do that. On the other hand, in the first sentence you pointed to a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 106, to speak of what is the point of the agenda. But this was a replica of Mr. Alexic's exposure. I beg you, Mr. Djukanovic, I couldn't really do a breach of the Rules of Procedure because Mr. Milojic didn't speak. I didn't let him talk about it. We're going back to work. The word has the authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18610	I thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the SPS Parliamentary Group, I will make it clear immediately that the SPS Parliamentary Group will support the proposals under discussion today. But we need to point out something that today is going through discussions at this session, which is very bad, especially for the citizens of Serbia who are following this session of the Assembly, which is specifically about the truths that came from this side of the opposition, which is instead of facts and arguments, and facts and arguments represent the power of the MP, are used lies, lies, structures and all that disqualifies Parliament's work. That's what the citizens' protector, for God's sakes, was also called for, why didn't the Citizen's Protector react when it came to property in Croatia? What does that have to do with the Protector when these issues are not in his jurisdiction? It was a question of where the citizens' protector was called and in relation to the situation in Kosovo. What does that have to do with the Guardian of Citizens, when it's not in his jurisdiction? What is and how significant, is that citizens know what it is that is the authority of the Ombudsman or the Protector of the Citizens. First of all, it controls the legality and regularity of the government's work. Secondly, to participate in the construction of a legal system, as we say lawyers, of an unopposed legal system, which means that it proposes law-making, to launch initiatives before the Constitutional Court for the assessment of constitutionality and legality. The third category of his jurisdiction is to recommend, in the event of an assessment, that the work of the officials entrusted with public powers is contrary to the law, that he recommends his resolution. The fourth group of responsibilities of the Citizens' Protector is to care for the performance of the government's obligations, to co-operate with the institution of the Citizens' Protector. Finally, the fifth, perhaps the most important branch or group or the sector of activity or the jurisdiction of the Citizens' Protector, is the conduct of an independent and impartial investigation against all public authorities, in order to make a transparent indication of irregularities in their work, suggested that just such persons before the Government of the Republic of Serbia be characterised before the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as guilty of counter-action, when it comes to infringements of citizens' rights. Why am I saying this? I'm saying this to make the citizens aware of what we're discussing as a responsible part of the government, which is what part of the opposition is trying to deceive the citizens. What citizens also need to know is the fact that I have already started on the Citizens' Protector, to point out why it is very important that the head of this institution, which is a state character, which represents the institution which has been defined as a state institution by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia since 2006, is important to be a respectable person, a person who will respond to the full extent of what I have said earlier when it comes to its responsibilities, tasks and obligations, and this is the protection of the rights of citizens, as well as to what it entails responsibility for us, MPs, bearing in mind that we and this Parliament accept reports or do not accept the reports of the Citizens' Protector, depending on whether these reports are in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Citizens' Protection Act or not; whether these reports are such that the Citizens have justified their role as the Citizens' Protector; that it is not known to the People's People's People's Rights; that it is not able to do what to do or to do what they do, or to do what they do, to do, to do, or to do, to do, to do, or to do, to make things, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do what to do, to do, to do what to do what to do, to do, what citizens, to know, to know, what to know, to know, to know, to know, to know, to know, to know, to know, what to know, to know, to know, to know, what to know, to know, to know, to know, to know, to know, to know, to know, to know, to know, to know, to know, to know, to know, to know, to know, to start, to start, to begin, to start, to start, to start, to start If so, and so, then we are expected to choose from who we will choose to respect all of this in general and to fully and fully in full capacity to protect the rights of citizens and the interests of citizens in the way it is placed in his jurisdiction. It is therefore very important to point out several important facts. What are the outstanding roles of the Protector of Citizens? One is prevention, which means that it prevents violations of the rights of citizens and thus prevents any action in the authorities of the administration or in the holders of public powers that may potentially be a violation of the rights of citizens. The second role of the Protector of the Citizens is educational. What does that mean? Well, education is conducted through the over-representation of citizens and employees in the authorities of the administration how to act and how to protect citizens' rights. Of course, I can do so by writing a complaint and by oral submission of the complaint, but we also expect the Citizens' Protector to be particularly old, within the limits of their competences prescribed by law, as employees in the authorities of the administration treat these same citizens, as they respect their rights. Whether these rights, in a way that implies the functioning of the Protector of citizens, are characterized as something that implies the operation of employees in the administration bodies towards citizens as ignoring their rights, gazing, violation or any other terminology to use or use, and thus to close their eyes, or not to respond to that. We within the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group are confident that the future Citizens' Protector will also have, and in spite of everything I've talked about today, and in particular that they will consistently implement and implement the law that points to it. Why? Because, according to its own initiative, the Citizens' Protector is investigating a violation of citizens' rights. If it does so by its own initiative, then it must establish literally all the facts that indicate a violation of the right. Unlike the part of the opposition that doesn't know or deliberately falsify something that citizens need to know, we in the SPS parliamentary group point to the public and the truth that the Citizens' Protector doesn't have control mechanisms in relation to individual state bodies alone. Preferably to the president of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitutional Court, courts and the prosecutions. It's something that implies everything that's out of the jurisdiction of the Guardian of Citizens. So when we're talking about a man who needs to be elected to this very significant function, then we have to have all this in mind. We in the parliamentary group have never done this, nor are we going to do it now, to use debauchery, demeaning, lying to a person, as did part of the opposition or representatives of the opposition. Did anyone study three, four, five, ten years, have an average rating as it is, at this point it can't be a burden to us. It must not be a mortgage for us at this point until we declare the one we consider to be credible. Well, the mass of the most professional doctors, the vast number of top surgeons, the urologist, the ophthalmologist, the oncologist, who knows how much time he spent studying his matter to come up with a professional reference he's got, maybe 10-15 years old, but that's why he showed up in practice as someone who's a top doctor, engineer, etc. etc. So, there's no need to slave with a fact that's why someone's been in college for so long, in studies, as the average of his grade, but as his work result, as he's shown in practice potential, which is not suspicious as a professional person, as a lawyer, he must have. Of course, the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Constitutional Affairs had four before it, I will freely and honestly say, a respectable candidate, and one of the candidates proposed by the SRS and DS and DJs, etc. It is about candidates who have their potential, their professional reference and it is not disputed, but therefore the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Constitutional Issues has been identified as who for a reason it considers responsible, securely, to be committed to performing a very important function that we are discussing today. When it comes to the other candidates' proposals, because today we are talking exclusively about personal solutions here, we in the SPS parliamentary group think that it is also good proposals, quality candidates, but as we will not talk about the Citizens' Protector to comment on anything until his work results are made out precisely by working on a job that he will be responsible for and on whom he will work as the elected Protector of citizens or member of the Anti-Corruption Agency, or the Fiscal Council, and in relation to these proposals, we do not want to make any comment concerning a person, which would involve any personal disqualification. On the contrary, the suggestions indicate that these are persons who meet the criteria. The state audit institution has proposed a quality candidate and thanks to Mr Sretenovic that a good definition of how to propose candidates and how to get the right proposal has been developed at the level of his institution. I don't think there's any objection in this direction. This also applies to the Fiscal Council, so that Milos Stankovic and Jelena Stankovic, Vladimir Vukkovic, Nikola Altiparmakov, as well as all those who are already there, who are already working in institutions, deserve to be elected according to their professional potential and personal qualities and according to everything we hope to prove as a result of their work. When it comes to the Anti-Corruption Agency, there is a subject here that certainly deserves attention, which is amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act. We in the SPS parliamentary group certainly stand behind the fact that it is really necessary to improve legislation in this regard so that the Anti-Corruption Agency is also under the norms that involve a far greater degree of responsibility of the Anti-Corruption Agency, that their work is as effective as possible and that really corrupt actions are being sanctioned not only, but simply eliminated in any way, any possibility of coming from the Anti-Corruption Agency anything that implies or concealing or tolerance of corruption. It was a good bill of law, I don't know if the draft law is still at that level, in that status, at that stage, that all employees of the Anti-Corruption Agency are subject to or subject to the provisions of the law by having to report their property. Whether other norms relating to the direct functioning of the Agency towards each individual, every citizen, every official, will be taken into account, unfortunately, not Mr Sabic here, that very often there has been a overlap between the Anti-Corruption Agency Act and the Public Data Protection Act. Why? Because we are witnesses, more or less, that in practice it happened that through the functioning of the Anti-Corruption Agency, it comes to the fact that minors are transparently showing those data which should not be shown in any case, that they are looking for data that must not be available, relating to a person, relating to the protection of personal data, both in relation to persons, and in relation to relatives, etc. Finally, I will conclude by, on behalf of all of us MPs from the SPS Group, pointing out that in the voting day, we will support these proposals because we believe that the proposals are of quality, we believe that by choosing these persons of the institution on whose head or in whose work they will participate will significantly improve the efficiency of their work and that we will get respectable institutions and people working in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18611	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has a National MP, Mira Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18612	The Honorable Chairman, honourable promoters, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will try not to be so long on behalf of the PUPS parliamentary group. These discussions that we have when it comes to the choices of different functions of independents are not too interesting for television viewers, although we all use these situations to promote our political options. The PUPS parliamentary group will support all the proposals that are in front of us today for the simple reason why I see that today's topic is number one Citizens' Protector. I don't know why he's given so much more importance than, say, the Fiscal Council or the Anti-Corruption Agency. I think it's kind of more heated now by the choices we've had behind us and by the unusual situation where we find that a man who's in two terms been the Protector of citizens finds himself a candidate for president, which is not common. I think that what's important to us, about the Anti-Corruption Agency and the candidates who have proposed very important institutions in our country, don't put us from the PUPS in any doubt. There's no reason not to believe that they all thought twice before proposing these people. I only know Mr. Sretenovic here, but we generally believe that you've all given thought and that it is in Serbia's interest that the Anti-Corruption Agency really has quality people. I have to admit that some personal experience and the experience of us from PUPS was that, I hope that these were children's diseases of the Agency, based on a variety of tips, anonymous, such, such as, such, did a great deal of correspondence on whether you had some property registered in the right way or not, but essentially these were minor problems that we were, of course, except for a little larger correspondence, solving. Indeed such an agency is necessary, it is necessary to work seriously and I don't think we have any doubt that the candidates who are ahead of us will not work properly. We don't want to make any conclusions in advance, there's no reason to doubt it. As my previous colleague, Neđo Jovanovic, said, let them first in practice show by their work whether they deserve those positions or not. As far as the Fiscal Council is concerned, it's three people already present. I repeat again that we haven't always had a PUPS, and we haven't always agreed with the opinion the Fiscal Council had. Very often we felt that simply whenever there was a talk with a lack of money in the budget, the Fiscal Council always turned to the pensioners. I mean, we at PUPS, as patrons of the pensioners, of course we could never take it lightly, but somehow it was always a safe position for them to have money. It was necessary at one point, and I hope that we fiscal consolidation have ended, that belt tightening, when it comes to pensioners, is now behind us. We also had a statement from President Vukic, and a few days ago, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic said that there will be an increase in both salaries and pensions this year, which is very important for us, to simply see the results and the support we gave in the previous period and which was difficult and painful for us. I think we've just taken the biggest punches as far as that goes. There have been some disagreements, but on the other hand, the fiscal council... I think that's the biggest problem because the Fiscal Council has really great business and economy people in its system and they've looked at it more numerically than they've ever seen in the way we look at it lifely, because yet the pensioner is over a million and 700 and of course they all have mostly low incomes and they don't have any other opportunities to improve their incomes, but good. We haven't had any major conflicts, we hope that they will continue, of course, to continue to do their job extremely professionally, so, as far as we're concerned, the candidates for the Fiscal Council will have our full support. As for the Guardian of Citizens, none of us personally know Mr. Pasalic. I hope that our largest coalition partner, the Serbian Progressive Party, has given very good thought before deciding on the proposal of the candidate that we supported in the coalition, that they have given good thought, that we do not really come to the situation we were in, that independent officials appear in the election for the president. So I hope we don't have a new candidate in five years, although somehow lately it seems to me that all of these independents are getting a little addicted. I see some announcements, whether they're true or not, they may be just texts in the paper again, they may be incorrect, but we have some announcements about the elections in Belgrade that they will also appear to us as candidates, potential, right, some independent members in our community. I hope it's a mistake again or, if it isn't, then we really have to make sure that in choosing these people we choose people who really have the interests of all Serbian citizens first and that politics is something they don't participate in. (The opposition's emissary adds: "something dirty". No, no, no. I really think politics is necessary. I'm sorry, I'm not talking to myself at all for a moment, I don't need to, but I've never really felt dirty. Everything I've done in my life, I've done the most frequent and all of us in PUPS. We all have a lot of backgrounds behind us, a lot of work, a lot of careers, and there's no reason for us to be dirty about politics. We entered politics precisely because we could protect one group that everyone else in Serbia had forgotten at that time. As far as we are concerned, we will really, in the voting day, give support to all candidates who are currently ahead of us as proposals, with the belief that we are not wrong, that they have all thought very well and that if we want to move forward and indeed if we have defined ourselves for the European Union, we must also respect some of the rules that this European Union has. So we have to have a really independent Citizens' Protector, we have to have a Anti-Corruption Agency, we have to have a Fiscal Council and we have to have a serious approach, a professional approach to each of them's jobs, which, after all, they have defined and accepted the candidacys. As far as we're concerned, the PUPS parliamentary group will support the candidates in today's election day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18613	Thank you, colleague Petrovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18614	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have violated Article 106(1). – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. So, if we talk about one citizen's institution in this way, and then those who suggested it even say they don't know anything about it, we can't pretend, or you as chairman, that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia doesn't exist, so that the ruling majority determines who can, and who can't choose in these elections, not only in this election, but in all elections in the Republic of Serbia. Everyone has the right to choose and be elected in accordance with the law, in accordance with the Constitution, and not to be determined in some debates in the principle of the Protector of Citizens, whether someone had the right to run for president of Serbia or someone has no right to run for mayor of Belgrade. I think it's a very big failure on your part because these things are the very things that affect the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is not respected in Serbia. If you want to tell me specifically that it has been abolished, please inform the citizens of Serbia as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18615	Mr. Bozovic, one moment, please. Which is a particular injury. Obviously we can't understand each other. I have no intention of having a dialogue with you, but I'm asking you a specific question. (Balsa Bozovic: You have no right to have a dialogue with me, but to hold a session. That's not what I'm trying to do. (Balsa Bozovic: I want to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. But you're not doing it. And I want to ask you what I've hurt at, specifically, injuring the said Rule 106? (Balsa Bozovic: Because you have not responded to the presentation of the previous speaker. ) Mr Bozovic, by interpreting the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure, you said that everyone has the right to choose and that everyone has the right to be elected, and in this Assembly each parliamentary group has a legitimate right to its position. A colleague, Petrovic, was legitimately entitled to the PUPS parliamentary group, and I do not believe that this hurt the said member of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Balsa Bozovic: Yes. And a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I couldn't do a new breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Balsa Bozovic: How did you not? Please, breach of the Rules of Procedure. You don't determine, Chairman, when it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) So, I chair Mr Bozovic, and now in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly set a 60-minute break. We continue work at 14.43 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18616	Ladies and gentlemen, we can continue our work. I have a National MP, Sasa Radulovic, on the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18617	Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, today at this session, we are discussing the selection of members of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee, then selecting members of the Fiscal Council and selecting the Citizens' Protectors. These are very important institutions of the system and we will surely all agree that it is necessary to choose people with integrity, people with undeniable professional qualifications, with significant knowledge and experience in order to play such an important role in society. We'll all agree that then we need to make a good selection, that we need to see what the work plans are, what they want to do in these places, what they're motivated to do to even run for these positions, or to accept that they're being nominated by authorised promoters, to explain to us what they think or what they want to do so that citizens can see it. If we are working in the interests of citizens, and this is an indisputable fact, we are all here because of the interests of citizens, and not because of the party interest, it is that in these positions, as well as all other places in society, we choose the best and for these specific positions in the National Assembly, it is up to the MPs themselves to make sure that the candidates who are really the best, to ask them questions, to discuss their work plans with them so that they can even perform their important function, and it is that the citizens have chosen them to protect their interests in the Assembly and then on behalf of the citizens and to ask all these questions. We hope that we agree on this and agree on the essence that needs to be solved today. Contrary to this, it is a partocracy that proposes its party staff without qualifications and without knowledge of the most important functions in the country. How do we determine the difference essentially? Basically, the difference is determined by talking to candidates, making interviews, asking questions, they answer. It would be very good if, before running, they could also present their biographies and work plans to the public service in some shows of their own plan, to face each other, to talk to each other, to let the citizens see who they choose, to talk to the media at the end and the MPs. This one process would then give us the best candidates. Instead, we have received applications from candidates submitted to the committees of the National Assembly, which do not satisfy any of these conditions. For example, no biographies except one have been delivered for the candidates for the Fiscal Council, and this is what one explanation of the finance minister who proposed a member of the Fiscal Council looks like. So, one sentence. I will read you to see how much the Ministry of Finance respects the MPs and their role as selection candidates. He says by letter you addressed the finance minister by asking him to propose a candidate for the Fiscal Council, in accordance with the provisions of the Budgetary System Act, and in this regard I suggest that a member of the Fiscal Council be elected Nikola Altaparmatov. That's all. This is how much the Finance Ministry has explained its proposal to a member of such an important independent system institution. Here you have an example of how the National Bank does it. That's also one sentence. One third of that sentence is the reference to the number of the Official Messenger in which the Budgetary System Act is published. This shows you how executive power and how institutions respect the National Assembly and respect the role of MPs in selecting candidates. What's worse than that is that no candidate showed up at the Finance Committee's session. No candidate has ever delivered his biography or provided a work plan or a reference to what he's been doing so far. These candidates, who were previously members of the Fiscal Council, proposed a previous government. Then they were chosen and now they're re-elected, without any work plan. If they happened to show up on that board, I'd have a lot of questions for them. For example, whether a member of the Fiscal Council supports a constitutional reduction in pensions and reasoning. When we look at a reduction in the deficit that has been undisputed, it is an important thing and citizens need to know that, reducing the deficit is very important for the Republic of Serbia, but the question is not whether to reduce the deficit but how to reduce it. If you look a little bit at how the deficit is reduced, it is reduced by the state reaching into the pockets of citizens and businesses and thus reducing the deficit. The fiscal council supported this, and it's one of the wrong policies. Twenty billion dinars were saved by the withdrawal of money from pensioners, over twenty billion dinars of salary cuts, 15 billion dinars of electricity taxes, about 17 billion dinars of profits that do not exist in public enterprises, which have been withdrawn and put into the budget. All taxes have been withdrawn, all fees, VAT from 18% to 20%, from 8% to 10%. A total of over 50 billion dinars that way. The question is, what did the state do? Not a word about it. We didn't even have a chance to talk to the candidates and ask them why on the one hand they support pension cuts and in this way the burden of both citizens and businesses, and on the other hand the state did nothing to save money. If you look at the items in the budget, for example More than a billion euros per year go to subsidies in the country's consolidated budget, over a billion euros. Let's say, of which, and the proposing's representative spoke today, 35m euros went to Fiat in 2016, about 12.5,000 euros per employee. Now there are 2833, or 2016, and the year before that there were 3300. So, a reduction in the number of employees there, subsidies increased about nine million euros. Otherwise, the prime minister also informed us that the net earnings of these employees are 320 euros and that workers should probably be grateful for that. On the other hand, domestic economy employs at a cost of 390 euros per employee, so in Fiat, we have a net profit of 3.800 euros per year, annual earnings, and the state gets 12,500 euros from the state, and let's say domestic businessmen receive zero euros in subsidies, and on the other hand they pay 4,600 euros a year. I don't know if citizens also know that Fiat in Serbia doesn't pay a single tax. They don't even pay for the employer's burden.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18618	Ambassador, help me...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18619	I'd like to ask you not to interrupt me, since he spoke about Fiat's proposing representative, so I have the right to look back on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18620	Why don't I interrupt?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18621	So, this wrong fiscal policy and monetary policy and in general the state's savings policy is something the Fiscal Council supported. They didn't even show up at the Finance Committee's session to answer these questions and to discuss this a little bit. How that 40 billion dinars in the budget went to pay off activated guarantees, not paying attention to it, but talking about reducing pensions, which should be the last measure. Reduction of pensions, or withdrawal of pensions, is the last measure when the state has no other choice. As they did not say, let's say, that Er Serbia annually makes huge losses of around 50m to 80m euros each year and that these losses are covered by subsidies. Why isn't there savings? Yes, Željizara 270m euros, this entire circus with management from Czechoslovakia, two years of wandering, is so cheap. So these are all some important things we should talk about on the Finance Committee. Unfortunately, no candidate showed up and the president of the Committee had an excuse, that's not necessarily necessary, they were already there, what to bring up the work plans? How can you judge candidates if you can't read their work plan? This is something that shouldn't be happening. I know that the main justification of the ruling majority is that this was done in the past before 2012. We agree, but that's exactly what's wrong and that's what needs to be changed. There was no debate about it. The same thing is with members of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Neither candidates nor presentation of plans, nor conversations about their integrity, nor experience, nor words, but as a flow water heater you pass through the board and then we pretend here at the National Assembly to talk to God about candidates, and basically ends up with a bell. In addition, we have a question of elections for the Protector of Citizens. To read for the citizens if they don't know some basic members of the Civil Protection Act. For example, Article 1 states - this law establishes the Protector of Citizens as an independent state body that protects the rights of citizens and controls the work of the authorities of the state administration, the body responsible for the legal protection of property rights and the interests of the Republic of Serbia, as well as other bodies and organisations, enterprises and institutions entrusted with public authority. A very wide diapazone and practically the Citizens' Protector should protect citizens from the boast of the state, where the state is in the bay, and not only does it work, for example, on the performances and complaints of citizens, but also self-initiatively detects places in a society where the state behaves arrogantly, where citizens' rights are violated. Citizens eventually end up in court for human rights in Strasbourg because the state is unable to respond to their fundamental rights. Then in Article 5, he said that the Citizens' Protector can be elected a citizen of the Republic of Serbia who meets the following conditions. One -- he's a graduate lawyer. Two - that has at least 10 years of experience in legal affairs which are important for performing the tasks of the Protector of Citizens. Three – to possess high moral and professional qualities. Four - that has seen experience in protecting citizens. Unfortunately, the proposed candidate for the Protector of Citizens has not even provided information about meeting three of the four conditions, nor has he been on the committee on which his proposal was discussed and voted on, not delivering his plan and work programme, nor has he answered the questions he was asked. I asked him the same question three times, he didn't agree on it. He then found protection by the president of the Committee, who informed all candidates, including him, that they did not have to answer the questions of the MPs, that it was their right to, if they wanted to answer, they could, if not, not. This shows how important the role of Parliament is, for example, the President of the Committee, and how many, in fact, are not interested in the discussion at all. The questions we asked concerned questions of moral and professional quality, observed experience in protecting citizens' rights. Of course, it is quite possible that someone who has studied for 13 years, who has an average of 6.7, may be a good Protector of citizens. Not likely, but possibly. When such a situation is then, of course, it is up to the MPs in the interview with the candidate to ask him questions in order to establish in the conversation whether there are the qualifications needed, or not, and whether he will be a good candidate for the Protector of Citizens, to answer questions. Unfortunately, we've been denied all this on the board, since we haven't heard any of this. It is also possible that someone who was in the Red Star football club assembly, as he arrived there, we don't know, the judge, then left that assembly and moved on to the Partizan Assembly. That's quite possible. It is also possible that someone who does so has credibility and moral integrity, however, is unlikely. On that committee, we didn't get a chance to hear the argument of the Protector of the Citizens if he was sitting in these congregations with people who were to be processed, how is it possible, first that they were sitting there and second that he had moved from one club to another? That really doesn't sound like something that makes sense. But the most important thing of all is nowhere is the work plan of the Citizens' Protector, as well as for the Fiscal Council as well as the Anti-Corruption Agency's Committee, as well as for the Citizens' Protector, no work plan to say, let's say what areas of society he would pay attention to, where are the main problems, and how does he think he's solving them? That's the point, it could justify all these other issues that the public has. But when you don't, then you don't have credibility for this position. The function of the Protector of Citizens is extremely important, as is the position of members of the Fiscal Council and the Anti-Corruption Agency. This is where people who have integrity, who have knowledge and who have experience are essentially sought. We have forms that allow for years, not only this authority but also the previous one, that bad party personnel come to those most responsible places, which then cannot meet citizens' demands, and in fact, do not protect citizens from how the state spends money, i.e. irresponsiblely how the party is managed by the state or by the arrogant behaviour of state authorities, but practically protects them from citizens. For example, the Citizens' Protector has the authority to control RTS, to control REM, because there is a threat to citizens' right to information. He has the right to control RIK, because there is a threat to the election rights of citizens. For example, the electoral right of diaspora, thefts happen, we have no control. It has the right of the Citizens' Protector to control the National Bank, why it has done nothing to make criminal contracts in Swiss francs or to have them in Serbia and to have so many citizens fooled. These are all some things we'd like to talk about if the candidate wanted to answer any of the questions he was asked. Instead, we have a vote on the bell. For the end, I'd say next. Since at every one of my presentations, one of the representatives of the authorities who insults me comes after me, in violation of Article 107(2). Rules of Procedure, I hope this time the President of the Assembly does not want these discussions to be about me, because when I run for office, then they are discussing me, but they will warn all speakers from the ruling majority to deal with the essentials and to answer the questions they are asking them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18622	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here's Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18623	Thank the chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, I would like to advertise the violation of Article 107 where he says in his first position – The speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, I would say to the citizens, because when you present brutal untruths in the National Assembly you insult and dignity all of us who are here, this high home and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. How's that hurt dignity? By saying that you are fighting against partocracies, you are fighting by proposing for the Guardian of Citizens, for someone who should be the head of an independent institution, a man who is the head of your party's parliamentary group or what it is, families for the sake of interest, families for non-payment of taxes or whatever, a man who's a councilman in that municipality, a man who's the chairman of the city board of your party's attempt, r, so you look at the partocracies, so you look at the independence of the institutions. Can someone who is a member of the political party be independent in performing the institution of the Protectors of Citizens? How will he protect them?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18624	Ambassador, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18625	Let me finish my last sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18626	Just about article 107, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18627	It's the dignity of the National Assembly. It's not nice to lie. The people say, "Who's lying, who might be stealing, and who might be stealing, if proven, he might go to jail, and certainly who doesn't pay taxes in normal states, goes to jail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18628	Do you want us to vote on Article 107's injury? (Serbian Filipovic: No. Thank you. The word is made by MP Branko Stamenkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18629	Thank you. Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 103 paragraph 8. - in the event that the MP abuses the right to act on the 1st presidency should take this time away from the total time that belongs to his parliamentary group. A colleague reported to the Rules of Procedure, and he entered the replica and entered exactly what his colleague Radulovic warned you, the chairman, not to let it happen, which you did on purpose. To remind you – it is your duty to take care of order at the session and not to allow what the Rules of Procedure is not allowed, meaning not to listen to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and then to say it is right, it is wrong, but the moment someone enters the breach of the Rules of Procedure, to interrupt it, and to warn him that he has entered the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which you keep avoiding to do, here, there is more than a year. Accordingly, both the facts and that you were warned that this would happen and asked not to, and yet you allowed it, I would suggest that, in accordance with Article 109, you give yourself a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18630	You've made me laugh, MPs, since most of the time I'm being criticised from your MP group for interrupting an MP who abuses the Rules of Procedure immediately after the first, second sentences, you've often have to let me hear everything we have to say, etc. I'm just about to adopt it, and now it's no good again. So I don't know what to do anymore. (Branka Stamenkovic: To vote on injury. We'll vote, it's inevitable. We'll vote for sure if I hurt the Rules of Procedure. But I don't know who did, and when he warned me that some of the... (Branka Stamenkovic: Col. Radulovic when he spoke.) A) No, he spoke 20 minutes in his own way about the proposed points of the agenda. I didn't understand that he was talking about the possibility of abuse of the Rules of Procedure in advance. It doesn't exist. The word is made by MP Aleksandra Tomic, who is authorised by the proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18631	Thank you. We had the opportunity to hear that no candidates were invited to the Committee and that the Rules of Procedure and the Law had been broken. For the sake of truth, I must say that the Budgetary System Act, which defines the Fiscal Council, is a member of 92 and a member of 90b. Article 92b says members of the Fiscal Council are proposing the president of the Republic of Serbia, President of the Fiscal Council, under two, the minister proposes one member, under three, the governor of the NBS also one member. If the National Assembly does not select the proposed member, the selection procedure shall be repeated. The Fiscal Council shall exercise its responsibilities after the election of all three members of the Fiscal Council and after the election of the members of the Fiscal Council shall take an oath before the National Assembly, taking over the duties. On the basis of Article 55, the Committee has adopted, Article 55 has defined the responsibilities of the Finance Committee, and the Committee is considering the report of the DRI and the other institutions which control the implementation of the Republic's budget under the responsibility of this Committee and the Committee also performs other tasks in accordance with the law and this Rules of Procedure. So the difference between the election of members and the proposal of the other institutions with which we've voted with the candidates is defined by law. In other legal solutions, there is one position in the member who says - the board will hold talks with the candidates who are proposed. In this law, it doesn't stand. Therefore, if we had invited candidates to come to the interview, we would have practically violated both the Rules of Procedure and the Law, which is why we did not invite them. It was necessary to say to the board that we violated both the Rules of Procedure and the work and the laws because we didn't invite them. Of course, it is a great slander that wants to be presented to the public by the opinion that we are violating the Rules of Procedure and the Law, which is of course not true. On the other hand, when we talk about who should be the candidates, somehow the opposition party representatives did not object when the Fiscal Council in their evaluations gave their specific proposals, which showed too much to raise the functioning scale, especially when salaries and pensions were at stake, so that they did not condemn the previous Minister Sutanovac against the constitutionally low-level military pensions with civilian pensions, so he caused court proceedings that cost Serbia's budget over 200m euros by 2012, leaving this authority to find ways to deprive those pensioners. Therefore, all we had the opportunity to hear is some point that shows that there is no concept of responsible economic policy at all, but only the need to get out of political anonymity and to attack the government that until the other day was Mr. Vukic, and now President Aleksandar Vukic and the government now chaired by Mrs. Brnabic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18632	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18633	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honored guests, I will try to comment on today's agenda if the fellow who sued me for the words spoken for the pay phone. That's exactly the fellow who spoke the loudest of all about partocracies here. Today's partyocracy was told by a man who was his head of the Belgrade party, here's a strong appearance on the outside, who proposed nothing less to his head of the parliamentary group and the head of the Belgrade party than to the Citizens' Protector. I guess he saw it from that yellow company, so he figured it out, saw the frog soaring, so she picked up her leg. It's a folk saying. So, he saw that it could, that there were three Manchesters in the province that were party-defined, that one was a adviser to Bojan Pajtic and a member of the party and from that advisory post at 83 years of age became the province of Frankfurt. He also likely saw that state secretaries from the yellow party could make very fast progress and become the province's citizens' protectors. I must say that the former Citizens' Protector, that he worked not according to the law, contrary to the law of Article 10a on the Citizens' Protector, but worked according to the programme and the statutes of his parties. Finally, he ended up as a candidate for several opposition parties, which speaks enough about the moral characteristics of the Citizens' Protectors, who primarily citizens and their human rights should protect against administrative authorities and abuses that political parties can carry out on various levels, from locals, across the city to the Republic. Of course he didn't protect any citizens, but he protected himself. It's the only citizen he's protected and he hasn't reminded me of the Guardian of the Citizens. In 1809, in Sweden, he formed or became an ombudsman, with the aim of protecting the people from power. It's a person with special hearing for the people. Does Sasha Jankovic look like he's got that hearing? It's a spy-political product that he got, among other things, 80,000 pounds from the British embassy. From that moment on, he was no longer 5% Protector of citizens, but was a political opponent of all officials who exercised power in the Republic of Serbia. It's a person who was extremely arrogant, who was harassing her dog at work, that dog car that was spoken of must have been dragged by the Protector of the Citizens dog. I think we needed a dog protector, too. He was so harassing that dog...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18634	MP, just to ask professional services to get their cards out of the system to the MPs who left the session. I can't break the Rules of Procedure, and this is how I break it, because I see they left the cards, and they have to take the cards to the Rules of Procedure. He's showing them like they're at work, and they're not at work. You go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18635	Thank you. A person who had 13 official cars, seven parking spaces, a person who had blinkers, a person who had rotations, a person who had a special hunting jeep, a person who had a special pass that no police could stop him, etc., does that person look like the Protector of the Citizens? In order for someone to be the Protector of the Citizens, they should have moral characteristics spoken of by representative Ivan Pernar and a representative of the Bulgarian Ataka Party. The moral characteristics of the Protector of the Citizens were best spoken by the authorised representative of Ataka in this House, and this is the gentleman who warmly embraced him, that it was overcoming political friendship, and especially friendship with the Protector of Citizens. I think he best described the Guardian of Citizens and his activities, but eventually he got involved with him in a certain relationship. The Citizens' Protector was also spoken of by a political representative of the Citizens' Protector, a lady who is not presently here, and she spoke of a new Citizens' Protector who has moved from one cheerleading group to another, although she has recently moved from one political party to another, and now she is sitting there next to my fellow farmer, he is so beautiful, smart, simply radiating, she is faithful to her strangers, I just don't know which, and she has been talking about a new candidate for the Citizens' Protector, namely his transition from one cheerleading group to another, as if it were some big minus. Studies were also discussed here, and those representatives of former regime parties whose bosses studied for 13 years. I don't think it's the length of study that's the problem, but what who learned during his studies. It doesn't matter how many books he read, but what he learned from them, he learned and what was applicable. The lady used the term – right under her nose. The lady who was the secretary of education in the Autonomous Region of Vojvodina used the term, and her knowledge can be questioned. But I wonder, during the same candidate for the Protector of Citizens, it was just the government led by my fellow farmer, the famous winemaker, who had just been appointed by the government in 2003 for the first time as judge for violations in Serbia. So they first proposed it and they thought it was good enough to be a judge. I don't know if they've had these 13 years now, or if there's been any inflation in years, so they think the 13 years of 2003 don't fit these 13 years. Because now those who launched him among the judges had repeatedly promoted him, so he took up a significant position in the court for violations, at the end he was at the top of the system, he was the president of the Court of Appeal, so it was just those who helped him in a certain way to prove his qualities, suddenly having a grudge at the length of his studies, as if he had been admitted there for the judge before his studies, so now he proved to have studied a little longer. As far as the Fiscal Council is concerned, the Fiscal Council is, I am grateful to them for the praises they gave to the ruling coalition and the governments that we have chosen many times, but I am grateful for the criticisms they have shown, because these criticisms were constructive, they were economical. They did not, like the Protector of Citizens, catch political tools to be accounted for, from one place where political opponents should not be politicised and accounted for. The Anti-Corruption Agency, I am sorry that Mr. Rasulovic, the authorized face of the Bensedin, came out to explain to me this kind of partocrat and to tell me what kind of candidate he was there, a certain Vojin Bilic, the head of the committee group and the party chief "Never had enough" to explain to me how he feels that he is a fighter against partocrat if he proposes such a solution? Also, we often hear him talking about some kind of nepotism, and he put an entire family on his list in Belgrade, and by the way, that relative, woman and all, are suing me for words spoken for a pay phone. I'm sorry that he got out, he could explain that parasitic system to me, when certain MPs from his party account, partocrats, get 800,000 dinars, and show their art coming here in front of this bench, swearing, spitting, etc. If he'd told me it was for 800,000, I'd have thought about cursing myself and spit on myself, that way, even if he and I split the money. It seems to have been expensively invested by a partocrat in a parasitic system that he built within his citizens' association, which I hope one day will collect enough, a thousand or ten thousand signatures, to be at least minority, if not the majority party. As for Mr. Pasalic, I will not particularly praise him. It is up to him whether he will be a politician and a Protector of the Citizens. I believe that he will be the Protector of the Citizens and will do everything the previous Protector of the Citizens has not done, who has become a political opponent from the skin of the Protector of the Citizens and from the work of the Protector of the Citizens, and thus has shown that he has seriously abused his function. From the moment he came from the British embassy, and today he appeared in the press and went there secretly, changing cars, because he had about 13 official cars, wanting to fool everyone, in today's press, it says that, going there probably for those 80,000 pounds, and not to sin, he shared it with the trustee, and in such a way you get a protector from the trustees, the conspirators, so you can use 80,000 British pounds from independent regulatory bodies, from independent bodies that need to deal with human rights, you can get a political monster, and thus you can enter other moral qualifications of former protectors. I am impressed by the war biography of Podrinj Saša Jankovic. So his heroic exploits about Srebrenica and Zvornik aren't what I would condemn these activities, but neither should it, ladies and gentlemen, be the quality of one person who became the Protector of citizens. Thus, during the competition, or the first appointment, it is obvious that he denied this information that he was in some kind of volunteering unit and that he showed a measure of courage. It's still the war operations he's been involved in, and now he's contesting. I don't think that was his negativity. The case that happened in his apartment is a message to the future Citizens' Protector that there will certainly be progress when we choose him, there will be progress, whoever we choose would be progress compared to Sasa Jankovic. I think the future Citizens' Protector will do his job without gunpowder on his hands, which is probably what happened to this and what's been successfully covered up in the '90s. It is obvious that the parties of the former regime had this kind of candidate who successfully transformed through various systems, so Mr. Sasa Jankovic was good enough for the government of Slobodan Milosevic, for the Ministry of Sports. After that, he was good enough for the federal government in DOS. Afterwards, he was good enough to become a protector of himself in the government of Vojislav Kostunica, to act as Protector of Citizens, and all the while it was a camouflaged political activist, and now there are serious indications that it was a political-spy variant that once called itself the Citizens' Protector. The Anti-Corruption Agency has to explain to us one day, I believe this Management Board will succeed in explaining to us how the president of the Indji municipality, for example, bought an 800-euro salary for an 800,000-euro apartment in Vienna? So we never got that kind of answer. It is, of course, a member of the former regime's party Goran Jesic, who is known on Twitter, under that Užičan republic and wonders, ladies and gentlemen, comrades and friends, who inherit that Užič Republic, this is the first Užička republic to win even part of Vienna, that has entered the centre of Vienna, in 100 squares and some squares, won them heroically, but for 800,000 euros. On the other hand, the loss of the Indji municipality is 2,000 million. The loss of the Indji municipality's budget is over 1,000 million. Here, the state auditor is here, he knows it better than I do. They've been audited, these aren't my findings, they're authorized institutions. Health House debt in Indjia, the founder of the municipality is over 300 million, and the utility debt is 70 million, long water lines and sewerage 140 million, a debt for the sports hall that was due to be completed in 2009 for the university, 550 million. The Anti-Corruption Agency was supposed to explain to us how this kind of moral gromada managed to acquire an apartment in Vienna, a house on Tatar Hill, a mother's apartment, a brother's apartment, a 250-square-metre pent house in India, and everything with a 800-euro salary? I spoke to the Agency several times, she could not explain how this happened, as I have not been explained that Mr Kradulović, I speak to Kradulović, I do not think it is only Mr Radulović, we think about the partocracy, the parasitic systems, so it is synonym, Mr Kradulović and Mr Rasulovic recently, how has he translated his firm, the management rights to his wife, when it is prohibited by the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, it is forbidden that the management rights are transferred to a mutually connected person? They are obliged to give us an answer as to how this happened and is there any conflict of interest, is there anyone who was obliged to control Mr. Radulovic for that service, anyone who was supposed to control Mr. Kradolovic's parasitic, party, partocratic system, did anyone have a favor and a close relative from the Anti-Corruption Agency put as an MP? We'll never get those answers. Ladies and gentlemen, whoever we choose as Protector of the Citizens, we will have progress. As far as the Anti-Corruption Agency is concerned, I believe it will work more efficiently, as far as the Fiscal Council is concerned, I take off my hat both on criticism and on praise. And to conclude, Mr. Future Citizens Protector, you should do everything Mr. Jankovic hasn't done, and don't do everything he's done and you'll be the real Protector of the Citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18636	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18637	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, attends today's session if I am not mistaken and Mr Vladimir Radomirovic of the Association of Journalists of Serbia. Mr Radomirović, you have proposed, or UNS and NUNS together a candidate for a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. This is the front page of the NIN tomorrow, here to see the honourable MPs, the citizens of Serbia. This is a photograph of the gates of the German Nazi concentration camp Auschwitz "Arbite Maht Fry" which means in German means work liberates, an infamous Nazi hypocrite password, entitled "Work Camp – Serbia". I've never heard of any of these independent human rights defenders and freedom team being called. Please, as representatives of the press association, come forward and make it clear that Serbia is the state of all its citizens as defined by the Constitution or, as the editors of the NIN, Serbia Auschwitz, and its citizens are prisoners in the work camp? This is a disgrace to those who will sell NIN tomorrow on their kiosks. Serbia is a sovereign, independent country, a country that struggles to come out of the severe economic and financial crisis that others have left us for inheritance, and NIN gentlemen, I guess this elite enlightened democratic, European, I don't know any more of the kind of Serbia that says "Arbit Mah Fry", "Work Camp – Serbia" for its native Serbia. Also, I haven't heard from a single trustee on the protection of personality data, not a single NGO, not a single gentleman, not a single woman in black, this is your death certificate for a living man. This man is by the will of the people of the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic. But he's primarily a citizen of this country. For a living man, the sick minds, I don't know what else to call them, who also consider themselves an alternative to the SNS, who say that they are those democratically enlightened emancipated Serbia, and that we are all here who sit and who have voted and fought for this man to win, some savages, primitives, that we are illiterate, that none of us knows anything, and that only those who publish death certificates for living people know everything, they are too smart, have a solution for every problem in Serbia, are simply not telling us what the solution is. This death certificate says our wolf died. Dear Wolf, may the angels keep you forever in a sultry lake. Grieved: we, wise and smart SNS sandwichers from the central love administration. I have not heard Milos Jankovic, Rodoljub Sabic, or any of these independent and super-independent state authorities say a single word against these monstrous things happening in Serbia in 2017. A born country, a country where you work, where you live, where your children live, where your grandchildren live, in which you receive your salary, compare with Auschwitz and its citizens with the prisoners of the labor camp, which by the way, was not a labor camp, but was like Jasenovac, a camp with the systematic extermination of political opponents, to keep quiet on the deaths of living people, in this case, when it comes to Alexander Vukic, it is the highlight of the hypocrisy in which this so-called drowning. democratic, emancipated and civil Serbia. I said this because I want to point out and because I want Serbian citizens to know who they are today in Serbia are, that they are independent, that they are experts, that they are only the heritage of European values, and their only goal is to fight the SNS. Here I also think of former Citizens' Protector Sasa Jankovic and V.D. Protector of the citizens, his successor Milos Jankovic. They have already established some kind of monarchy principle, one Jankovic inherits another Jankovic and now imagine a miracle unseen, a scandal unseen in Serbia, will not be chosen Milos Jankovic as if what they say – the grandmother left him, so now if Milos Jankovic is not elected as the Protector of the Citizens, my God, he will fail Serbia, and with Serbia and the whole world. Of course not. So our question is – how long will these independent, super-independent, extra-independent, too smart human rights defenders and freedoms that receive salaries of three, four, five thousand euros, finally be announced for such shameful inscriptions in certain newspapers, in a country where, imagine, there is such a terrible censorship over the media, that Serbia is declared a working camp and where a dead man is declared president of the state with a desire to burn in a sullen lake. So much for those who can't sleep at night from protecting human rights and freedoms, protecting personality rights, protecting personality data, etc. There have been words here, and here certain parliamentary groups have been racing who will repeatedly pronounce in their performances words such as Alexander Vukic and SNS. I'm telling you, that's my personal impression, I think a dead race between those DS, those from Dvora, those from Boris Tadic's party, Sasa Radulovic, is a dead race that can say the word SNS and Alexander Vukic more than a minute. In fact, they don't have other subjects, they don't understand anything else. Now ask them – do you have any solution for the "Fiat"? Well, we don't. Do you have any solution for Petrochemy? Well, we don't. Do you have any solution how to help form a community of Serb municipalities at KIM? Well, we don't. Did you bring any investors into Serbia? You say you have great friends on various meridians of the world, so did you bring any of your friends into Serbia to invest? Here one boasts, says – we who fill the budget, we who fill the budget. He's the man on the budget. The first thing he did was send me, as chairman of the Administrative Board, a request to become a regular MP in the National Assembly. I ask him which investor he brought to Serbia? Who did he hire, one single man? Yeah, I mean the ones you're throwing at right now. Who did you bring to Serbia? You say you have friends in Russia, you have friends in China, you have friends I don't even know where, you have friends in Bulgaria, great. Have we seen any Bulgarian investors they brought in? I didn't see them. Maybe they saw him. But there isn't. The only investors that exist in Serbia are those brought by Aleksandar Vukic. Fifty-five factories opened in Serbia brought in, and thanks to Aleksandra Vukic, the factories are working. The rest don't work. The rest were ruined at a time when Serbia was ruled by those who now teach us lessons about human rights and freedoms, about who and how long he studied, about what average he had, etc. Here were the words about how the SNS, which is usually a mantra that has been repeated for years, seduced some terrible dictatorship that we have all been changing alive, that there is media darkness in Serbia. Here, what a dark government, tomorrow the NIN will tell you that Serbia is the new Auschwitz, and that its citizens are prisoners in that Auschwitz and no one will say anything to anyone from that civil, polite, democratic and European Serbia and one word to say. So, we seduced some terrible media darkness, we changed everything alive, and, look, now that a man puts his finger on his forehead and thinks about it, here I am asking my colleagues from SNS -- people, and who have we replaced since 2012? Is Rodoljub Sabic replaced, and every day runs a political campaign against Aleksandar Vukic and against the SNS under the company "I am an independent organ", as if all Serbian citizens had forgotten that this same Rodoljub Sabic was his own timely vice president of the National Assembly, that he was a minister, that he was a prominent member and official of one of the DOS parties, now suddenly overnight says – I am a man, not related to daily politics, only I have any connection to this is that every day I attack on Vukic, Bata Gasic, Maja Gojkovic, Marijana Risticevic, anyone who has any connection with the SNS. Did we replace Rodoljub Šabić? We didn't. Sasu Jankovic? We chose him in 2012 just so they wouldn't tell us – here, come these villains, these monsters, so they're changing everything alive. So, Sasa Jankovic pushed a full two mandates. He resigned several days before the presidential election was called, otherwise he led a campaign for presidential elections at least two years back, of course on the cost of citizens and on the damages of the Republic of Serbia's budget. Did we replace anyone at the Anti-Corruption Agency? Here, now we're picking again. We will again choose the same composition of the Fiscal Council, the same fiscal council that has criticised almost every move by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy in the most difficult way. We're going to choose these people again, because we're not afraid of serious and reasoned criticism. Let people criticise, let them do their job, I do not understand public finances as close as Paula Petrovic understands, as do these two members of the Fiscal Council. I don't belong to those people who say they know everything. I don't know. I think these people know a lot more than I do and we're going to choose them precisely because we want there to be one body that will criticise, but in a reasoned way the government of the Republic of Serbia's moves, because good, justified criticism is beneficial for every authority. So we haven't replaced anyone. No one's been expelled from their jobs. No one lost their job. All these people are constantly at their posts, as they were until 2012, as no one has been replaced in any media house, we have banned any newspapers, no magazines, no weekly, no show, absolutely nothing. I can list you by tomorrow's daily newspaper, Sunday's, television houses, etc., where Alexander Vukic is and in which SNS is absolutely one topic. Today, there were many words about why Zoran Pasalic should not be chosen. Apparently, he's a member of the SNS, he's not. So the man is not a member of the SNS, has nothing to do with the SNS. The man is the President of the Criminal Court of Appeal, well, extremely well, doing his job and talking about it, after all, statistics. I'll only read those statistics from three years from now when the SNS wasn't in power. In 2006, so Zoran Pasalić had 2,014 items in work, solved 1,374 items. He had 91% confirmed decisions. In 2007, he had 1,698 subjects in work, solved 1,164 cases. He had 89% confirmed decisions. In 2008, he had 833 cases in work, solved cases 760, again 89% of confirmed decisions. That means that almost every decision he made as a judge was confirmed. That speaks of his quality as a lawyer. Here some ignorant people tried to challenge his candidacy for the Protector of Citizens by making a mockery of him, he says – so he said he was a judge for violations, how could he protect the citizens when he was a judge for violations? Well, he protects citizens more as a judge of offense than a Protector of citizens. Here, why? The citizens' protector, but they don't know it, they don't read the Constitution, they don't read the law, they haven't read a single textbook that deals, not a single scientific paper that deals with the function of the Guardian of Citizens on constitutional and political. A judge of crime can give you a criminal sentence. He can give you a court ruling. The Guardian can't bring, can't undo, can't modify any administrative acts, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't. Nowhere in any state that knows the institution of the Protector of Citizens, nor can the Protector of Citizens alter, alter or abolish administrative acts, and administrative acts directly affect citizens' rights and obligations. That's why the Guardian of Citizens in Legal Theory is called a tiger without teeth. He can write you recommendations, he can tell you what to do, but he can't change any administrative act directly, no matter how objectively illegal, irregular or impervious. The judge can directly protect you as a citizen, your property rights, your personal, your civic, any other. Therefore, the judge for the offences is far more qualified for the Protector of Citizens than was Sasa Jankovic when he was elected both in 2007 and 2012. Because of the citizens of Serbia, I want to say one more thing. Here they taught us how, and those lessons first began to be held by Sasa Jankovic, and then the so-called. The opposition, so Milos Jankovic continued. Only one small crackdown in Serbia strengthens the opposition to Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party is one make-up, one actress and several scribbos on Facebook and Twitter, but all these people sitting across from us. Because these people are weak and weak, because you can't hear a single idea of them, except for the mere hatred of Alexander Vukic. Then Sasa Jankovic, Milos Jankovic, Rodoljub Sabic, various experts and independent experts took on the role of the opposition, so instead of doing so by political parties, they do so, not by independent regulatory bodies, but by state authorities. Sasa Jankovic, as the Protector of Citizens, was not an independent regulatory body, but according to the law and the Constitution, a state body. Rodoljub Sabic is not an independent regulatory body, but a state body. The Anti-Corruption Agency is not an independent regulatory body, but a state body. Now you have an incredible situation that the state authorities are leading, in the name of the opposition that is weak and weak, a political war against the government of the Republic of Serbia. It has been at work in Serbia for the past few years. If that were the case, I'd like to present to you just a few things about the report by the citizens of Sasa Jankovic for 2015. He campaigned against the SNS for why the National Assembly did not adopt this report. Otherwise, while the state was led by those who led it until 2012, no report by the Citizens' Protectors was adopted in the National Assembly. Thanks to the SNS, two citizens' protectors' reports, one for 2012 and one for 2013. Why didn't we adopt a report for the year 2015 of former Protector Sasa Jankovic? Because this is a report not by the Protector of Citizens, but by one of the future candidates for the President of the Republic. Because the report is full of political evaluations. Because the report refers to the work of those state bodies that under the Constitution and by the law the Guardian of Citizens cannot control. He can control the work of the state administration's authorities, he can control the work of the body responsible for the protection of property rights and the interests of the Republic of Serbia and of the entities entrusted with public authority. He does not have the right under the Constitution to criticise the government's work, no matter how much that government likes it or doesn't like it. Here's what Sasa Jankovic said in her report, and this is what we should have allegedly adopted. He says the state and the administration were involved...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18638	Time, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18639	Here, I'm done. So they were dealing with their own reforms whose results have not yet led to changes that citizens feel like a clear improvement. So then - the independence of the Citizens' Protector prescribed by the Constitution is severely violated by the provisions of the Law on how to determine the maximum number of employees.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18640	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18641	I'm done. Then he criticises page 7 of the Home Secretary's statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18642	Just hurry, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18643	So he comments on Alexander Vukic and his performance at the press conference, etc. So that's why we didn't adopt this report.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18644	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Sonja Pavlovic answered, I assume, according to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18645	Thank you. Dear Chairman, you must also recommend this serum for us to be tolerated for the violation of Article 106, because you persistently and persistently allow us to listen to something that does not belong here. Let's say, I don't know which session Mr. Martinovic is sitting at today, because it's not the agenda of this session. We listened to everything, we just didn't hear about the protecter of the citizens. Do we choose the Protector of all citizens, or do we choose the protector of 700,000 citizens, how much is the SNS membership? That's what I'd like to get in response.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18646	MPs, you didn't say a member, I can't follow you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18647	I said article 106, you didn't hear, you came in the meantime. So we're not in the subject we're talking about. I'd be very interested in whether, for example, Mr. Sabic, Radulovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18648	I understand article 106, replica, you have no right to do business. You warned me or your former colleagues from the D.J.B. He was only talking about the agenda. Although I was not in the O.R., I listened carefully to the presentation of MP Aleksandr Martinovic, he did not leave the agenda for one second. He spoke precisely about the agenda points, except, I must admit, for the first few seconds about the scandalous NIN front page, but he linked it to the fact that none in the country of those who should react respond respond to such phenomena. Therefore, we can vote if you consider the Rules of Procedure injured. Yes or no? No, I don't. Miladin Ševarlic is in the system. What's the occasion? Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18649	Thank you, Chairman. I'm reporting under Article 107, the dignity of the National Assembly. Without intending to enter the controversy with anyone in this room, I'd like to well-intentionedly warn that we don't use occupational names when we're discussing. In 1978, I was at the first specialization at the Faculty of Economics in Warsaw. The head of the department, who was my mentor, took me in at the beginning, we agreed on a stay program, and he asked me what I wanted to visit in Poland among other things. Unfortunately, I said the word Mr. Martinovic repeated here several times – I would like to visit Auschwitz. He was terribly angry and he told me – do they not know in your Socialist Yugoslavia, then, that they respect the national feelings of Poland? Auschwitz is not a name, it is a German name, and the Polish name is – Auschwitz. I think that's why we should use...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18650	Thank you, MP. You did not understand, MP Martinovic was saying what happened today and what was the violation of the Rules of Procedure, what was placed on the front page of the NIN weekly. When you see the front page, you'll see that they wrote it. Thus, he spoke correctly, condemning such a terrible abuse under the mask of freedom of the media. So the victims were injured not only in the camp, as you say the German name Auschwitz, but all the people who gave their lives for freedom, not only Serbia and Europe, were injured, by this headline.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18651	I didn't see any reason to interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18652	We were all appalled together, every decent man in this country, over such a phenomenon.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18653	You shouldn't have interrupted me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18654	Yes, yes, I understand you, but it's not an MP who said it, but said what's going on in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18655	I wanted to point out another thing, but now I'm running out of time that's coming to me because you keep getting into my word. I don't think that's correct.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18656	You're on all the time. Does anyone else want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? The word has Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18657	I point out the violation of Articles 108 and 109. Of course, you weren't in the chair, but it's a good thing you said you were watching the session. A member of 108 was injured because the chairman had to warn the previous speaker, and regarding article 107 and the dignity of the National Assembly. In fact, MP Martinovic, on two occasions, rudely insulted members of the opposition political parties, and I would draw out one analogy with the previous session when, at the insistence and apparition of the two MPs of the ruling majority, you corrected the decision and imposed penalties later, on one MP, specifically the MP of the Dveri Group, Bosko Obradovic, to apply the same archin in this case. Mr. Martinovic, in his speech, and you heard it because you said that you were watching, he called the opposition's MPs the Nejaks, and compared that they were stronger and different, and I don't know what kind of person, which is extremely incorrect on his part. Now I ask you whether the lack of policy in Mr. Martinovic's speech, which for 20 minutes does not speak about the agenda, can be compensated for the lack of culture, because if he did not bring the culture out of the house, there is the chair to teach him and apply the Rules of Procedure. Indeed, I don't know, he never said such insults at the expense of his fellow ruling majority, and I don't think we as MPs deserve to be treated that way. As for the initial part of his presentation, I also believe that the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated because it has been insinuated that something published by Vukevic and "Informer" comes from any MP of the opposition. So that death certificate was the only one in the Informer. Please don't contact anyone from the opposition, even if the Dwarry doesn't have anything to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18658	Ambassador, please, your discussion will be interpreted as defending this. This can't be compared to anything in our country. This is terrible. I'm setting a one-minute break and I want us to go back to the discussion on the subject, and the NIN front page will talk about itself. [[After a break.]] We're continuing the debate. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18660	Dear President, Mr. Sretenovic, with colleagues, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, and this is the Srljig municipality located in the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. As I will always speak, as it is said, in folk language because as I have always supported the proposals proposed by both our government and the people representing our country in all state institutions. As for the Citizens' Protector, the previous Citizens' Protector, Mr Jankovic and one and the other, my colleagues said everything. I know they came to us in our neighborhood, Mr. Jankovic one, or earlier, but only when there were elections. He didn't come to our neighborhoods when he was the Protector of the Citizens in both the first and second terms to see how they live there, to see how people live there with a special accent of people living in our villages. People who are very hard to live for, but for Mr. Jankovic, who was just going around a round of Belgrade's two, he didn't care. Well, I think it's right that such a Protector of citizens no longer will be. So, Mr. Risticevic, my colleague from our joint club said a lot of things that are all true. What things did Mr. Jankovic not do as the Protector of the Citizens? He did not protect the interest of all citizens, but again speaks about this part of southeastern Serbia where the hardest living is, where people are in a very difficult situation, where people are really hard to live in, but especially in our villages and mountainous areas, only the problem of the two here in Belgrade. What else can I say about our candidate who was proposed by our committee, that's the man in the first place who was chosen in the previous period by the previous government as V.D. Judge for offences, as v.d. The president of the Belgrade court for violations, as president of the court for violations, then the President of the Court of Appeal. That's what he says about him as a man of integrity, that he's a man who knows his job and a man whom people respect. For this reason, Zoran Pasalic will be sure to be chosen as the Protector of the Citizens, but he will be the Protector of all citizens and citizens living in the city and will be the Protector of the Citizens, or the Protector of the Peasants. Why do I want to say that? Because I am sure that Mr Pasalic will come and visit all areas in all parts of our Serbia, he will see that we are also living in Srlig, in our small towns and in Bela Palanca, which are problems in Babusnica, Gadjin Han, and normally this man will, along with us, protect the interests of all citizens and all peasants in Serbia, and so says the Citizens' Protector. I'm sure I'll vote for Mr. Pasalic because he's a man of value. I don't know him personally, but I know the people who suggested him know him and I trust those people. As for members of the Anti-Corruption Agency, for proposed members I do not know, I cannot speak, but I can talk about the person proposed by the DRI, by Mr Sretenovic. It's a person from Nis, a person of value, a person who knows and who is sure I'm going to be a very serious member of the Agency who will represent and fight corruption in every way. That's Mrs. Jelena Stankovic. She is from Nis, and as always I support our Nišli and all those people who come from that area because it is good that people who come from that area to take the right situation to us there, in southeastern Serbia, and Mrs Jelena, Dr Jelena Stankovic is a person of value, who knows and I am sure as a professor at the Faculty of Economics, with experience, and a young person will have and will contribute to the Anti-Corruption Agency. She will be present in all parts of the Agency that she will represent and fight corruption in every way. It's Mrs Jelena Stankovic, she's from Nis, and as always I support our Nisli and all those people who come from that area, because it's good that people who come from that area to take the right situation with us to southeastern Serbia, and Mrs Jelena Stankovic, is a person who is worth, who knows, and I'm sure as a professor at the Faculty of Economics with experience, a young person will have and will contribute to the Anti-Corruption Agency. She will be present in all the areas where it is necessary and I am sure that together with our candidate, both Mr Pasalic and the Agency, she will work with everyone to protect all citizens in our Serbia, but with a special accent in parts of Serbia where it is most difficult to live, which is the southeast part of Serbia. The remaining proposals by our Serbian President, Mr. Vukic, I do not want to speak, because I trust this man, and therefore I am sure that all the members who are proposed by these state institutions will be people from our president of Serbia who will work in the interests of all the citizens of our country of Serbia. I will vote once again as the People's MPs of the United Peasants' Party, but I will also vote on the proposal of our Protector for members of the Anti-Corruption Agency and for the Fiscal Council. This way we see that this is what it's worth, that we don't do politics here, but we're dealing with real state policy here. I'll tell the gentlemen who will be chosen one more time, I'll tell Mr. Pasalic, let's wake up people and everything will be right, as our former and late Patriarch Pavle said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18661	Time. Thank you. The word is Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18662	Thank you, President. Dear fellow Members, I expected today from the proposing representatives, or ruling parties in parliament, to hear something more concrete and serious arguments as to why some people such as Mr Pasalic should perform this function, all the time, except, excluding a proposal for candidates for the Fiscal Council, it is explained something better. But as for Mr Pasalic, all the time it was said that he was a good man, that he was not a member of the SNS, and that he would do his job well, and that is about the main criterion that the ruling break sees when he wants to place a man on one of these functions. As far as independent bodies are concerned, as is the Protector of citizens in Serbia and as we know, I said at the beginning of today's presentation, that these independent bodies of the institutions paint the democracy of a country. They should be a control factor of power, not an extended arm of power. Unfortunately, in your discussions today pointing your finger at the opposition, you have shown that the doubt I initially raised is justified, and that you are not today setting up a man who is expert in doing this job, who has reference in his career to do such a job, but rather a man who will listen unnecessarily to the orders of the ruling regime, as is the case with most of the 22 other independent republican authorities and independent bodies. So you're saying there's no proposal from the opposition, that the opposition only criticises, that he didn't suggest anything. It was about some investors, talking about the economic well-being of the wolf's rule, now I have to say, here, in a year, at least I've proposed 50 times the additions of various laws as an opposition MP, none of them deserve your attention to be on the agenda, at least to discuss it. Therefore, do not lie to Serbian citizens that we do not propose. The point is that you work on the bells, and the moment you get a signal that something needs to be supported, you support it, and you do not represent the interests of the citizens, but the interests of your political party, because it is such an electoral law. In the end, and it's legitimate as long as you support it. You say here, Mr Martinovic, at one point, that you decided not to talk about the Anti-Corruption Agency's report for the past two years, because you have estimated that the public should hear nothing about it. Why? What are you hiding? What are you hiding that you are in power if you do not want to hear anything about the Agency's report on the fight against corruption? Please, for two years we haven't discussed the Anti-Corruption Agency's report, twenty-two months on the agenda have not found proposals to elect members of the Anti-Corruption Agency. The agency today, on this day of nine, has two members, and no director. So, the idea is that absolutely all of these independent institutions are being controlled and that their existence, their work, be able to behave as you do today, which is that you privatised the state of Serbia and do in it whatever your political will, and not how democratic institutions should carry it out in a country. You're saying we've made a lot of mistakes. I didn't hear a single concrete answer to everything I was talking about. Now I'm gonna set it up, maybe until the end of the debate someone remembers to answer again. I asked why the Agency isn't working, and why is there only two members, as of today? Also, were competitions for the selection of directors of public enterprises conducted in accordance with the law, or were they placed on the party line? Veroljub Arsic: It has nothing to do with the subject. ) Also, it's all in line with the subject, Mr. Arsic, you have to try a little bit and understand what I'm talking about, and it concerns the business of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Has the Anti-Corruption Agency Act been passed, which you have been promising since 2012? Is there a law on the origin of the property you've been promising since 2012, before each election? Whether Serbia is 72nd in the anti-corruption index, or not. Those are all specific questions. Are our companies professionalized and depoliticized? Did you solve the 24 controversial privatisations you spoke of in every campaign that you would arrest, that you would be solved, that you would find those responsible, or not? Is it true that the ignored reports by citizens' protectors and other representatives of independent institutions for individual cases, such as the report on Sinisha Malom, where it is said, officially on the Anti-Corruption Agency website, that the Anti-Corruption Agency published a report on Belgrade Mayor Sinisha Malom, in which it described his jobs suspected of being money laundering? It is about cash transactions, conducted by Mali through the Of-Shor Company, including the purchase of property in Bulgaria and many others and the case of Nikola Selakovic and others. You, when the independent authorities of the institution do their job, then we get to the prosecution, then we get to the court, we get to the police in the Savala case, who did not react at the time of the night when the territory of the Republic of Serbia has been suspended, but no one answered the calls of the citizens and now, dare you say that all this is not true, that the opposition is politicizing, that we have no arguments, that all we are saying is pointless, and you say from the arguments - Pasalic is not a member of the SNS and that is his main qualification. All you had to do was add, as another one of his qualifications, that he double-guessed his morning coffee show with Duke. So these are the two key things that qualify Mr Pasalić to do better than the candidates we have proposed, and this is Mr Milos Jankovic, who has so far performed the post of V.D. Protector of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18663	Thank you, colleague Alexic. Right on the replica Veljorub Arsic. I apologize to Aleksandar Martinovic, head of the Serbian Progressive Party Parliament Club.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18664	I have to answer, because I already said at the last session, we will not allow the Serbian Progressive Party and its parliamentary group to be a punching bag for those who have ruined Serbia. Mr. Alexic, let me ask you something, and what about the First Five-year-old from Triestenik? Why don't you explain to us who destroyed the first five-year-old from Trieste? Who left so many thousands of people out of work? Well, then we'll be dealing with Sinisha Mali, the Saval for which you didn't even hear of Croatian until a year ago, yes, yes. Let's go before we deal with the first five-year-old when you were president of the Triestenik municipality, with the JKP... For the first time I heard that the Public Enterprise was founded in a local community, there was an employee and a corrupt tractor. Marko Atlagic: What's his name? So, one employee, I don't know his name to Mr. Atlagic, I forgot and that company had one tractor. Here, Mr. Sretenović, as a state auditor, please check that information whether it is correct or not. Before we answer, let us hear few answers to questions raised by Serbian citizens. Ludi, who destroyed our factories? In 2001, 2005, 2010 and 2011, from Sudotica to Leskovec, to Vranja, to Kosovo Mitrovica, who has ruined everything alive in Serbia? Well, those who teach us lessons today, and who is Zoran Pasalić, and who is he? And who are you? You've ruined this country. You sucked out the economic substance of this country. In July 2012, this country was in front of bankruptcy, with all your brilliant economic experts...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18665	Time, fellow Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18666	So answer these questions – who destroyed the first five-year-old from Triestenik?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18667	Thank you. Right on line, colleague Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18668	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can't believe a fellow MP is so much, let's say, rude, to ask what happened to the reports of the Citizens' Protectors, the Anti-Corruption Agency, etc. He asks us that, when his Tadic was in power, we didn't have any reports, not a single one. They shouldn't have entered this building. They were banned. And now he's talking about democracy. He is now of the independent true deity. Let's move on. It bothered fellow MPs that Pavle Pavlovic was visiting on TV during the election campaign, Petrovic. Just to remind you, dear fellow MPs, when they were in power, the Fiscal Council couldn't even give a report because they were afraid that the report would spoil their performance in the 2012 campaign. And now they're telling us how they take care of the citizens. One more thing. I don't mind my fellow MPs asking each other questions, but ask the government, I don't mind. It's your right. Ask the independents, and it is your right, but it is our right to ask the question of sending you to the elections to ask the citizens what they think of you, and they told us only a few months ago that they do not want you in power and that they support that policy led by Alexander Vukic, by giving them confidence in being President of the Republic in the first round.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18669	Time. Thank you. Right on line, Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18670	Thank you. The opposition's emissaries resent it. ) Chairman, if you can calm down, gentlemen, if you don't mind. Can you give me back my time? I'm sorry, but I'm glad some of the colleagues here on the other side are supposedly not looking at the show that I'm running, and then everyone is commenting, which is the best indication that they and how they watch that TV show can learn something, which I'm very glad to learn, because unlike them, especially when they were presidents of the municipality who were literally under their control, worse than Kim Jong Un, the one in North Korea, because no one could approach his television back in Tristenik. I'm calling everyone, so by the way, a half-year ago I called Mr. Pasalic, imagine, as president of the High Court of Appeal and imagine that my insolence, I called someone to come and say, something to comment on the Law of Infractions. That, imagine, was terrible, a man came to drink coffee with me. They seem to be the only ones who go on TV and where they can only participate in some of their programs. I guess it's their journalism appologists who have headlines like this. Now I ask only such, since the gentleman does not want to comment – are these workers, or those journalists in the NIN, then are they in the camp, since they own it, by the way, the German and the Swiss? So did they put the headlines in the camp after they put them on the front page like this? And the media under their control are the best indicators of a small-time speaker. No one in Trieste could come from his control of terror. Anyway, I invite him here whenever he wants to come over and have coffee with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18671	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, first colleague Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18672	Mr Marinkovic, a member of 107 has been violated and you have violated Article 27, which obliges you to take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure at the National Assembly sessions. You couldn't not hear Veroljub Arsic, because he spoke very loudly. He injured dignity because he said it was insolent that the MP demanded that, in accordance with the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly discuss certain reports. The argument that it was not discussed during Tadic doesn't say anything good about the SNS either. It just confirms the thesis and the fact that between SNS and their ideological clones DS has no difference, that they do absolutely the same. But you, as chairman, were obliged not to let him speak until the end of the time he had at his disposal, but to interrupt him, to warn him. However, whoever holds the presidency is constantly kind to those of the ruling coalition who are today, free to say, spoke of anything but what is on the agenda. It's not on the agenda today, former Protector of the Citizens. You gentlemen voted for him in 2012, many of you and in 2007. So when you're talking...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18673	Let's not turn this into a replica right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18674	No, I'm talking about the way the dignity of the National Assembly was hurt. So, I ask you, Mr Marinkovic, to stick to what is the agenda and to be stricter in applying the Rules of Procedure, not to the people of the opposition and MPs, but to those of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18675	Okay. Are we voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Nemanja Sarovic: Do you think it exists? No, I'm asking you, your attitude. (I Nemanja Sarovic: If I hadn't thought it existed, I wouldn't have answered it. If you accept that there was an injury, then there's no need to vote. ) (Nemnja Sarovic: Was there an injury in your opinion? Do you want to vote? I'll say my opinion in voting day. (Imanja Sarovic: In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you give an opinion. Well, I wouldn't go with you... I'm really not in the mood to chat. You don't want to answer and that's it. Who else wants a word for hurting the Rules of Procedure? The word is Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18676	The President-in-Office, a harsh violation of Article 104. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which in point 2 clearly states – if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has the right to reply. I, in particular, also the Parliament Group "Dveri" was also mentioned in the exhibitions by Marijan Rističević and in the presentation of Aleksandr Martinovic and by my personal name and by the name of the parliamentary group. Even my photographs were shown. I didn't get the right to a replica from either of your colleagues who replaced you, or from you. We now had a situation while you were away that three members of the SNS parliamentary group had received a replica for one presentation of the opposition's representatives. So I was called twice, and I didn't get a single line. Here three members of the government received three replicas on one exhibit. Can it be normal and is that one, let's say, correct approach to having a session? I don't see any correctness here. All I see is that everything is allowed by the representatives of the government, and we have no rights to the opposition. I just want to point out that the main order in respect of the Rules of Procedure is by the chairman to give equal treatment. We're not looking for anything else. What we have votes, we have. How many MPs do we have? We're not looking for anything else. You have most of it. You can make any decision. You have more time at your disposal. There's nothing we can do to stop you. The only thing we have, it's a little bit of time that follows us through the Rules of Procedure, and you're taking it away from us as a right. It then loses the limits of any parliamentaryism, freedom of speech and democracy. We have little left to say. If you deny it to us, then, if it's this Auschwitz or whatever it's called, I don't know, but I know I don't have the right to say a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18677	Thank you. Hold on so you don't get the most terrible punishment yet. Once again, if you compare parliament to Auschwitz, I will interrupt the session, and you will certainly be punished. I ask the stenogram to be delivered to me immediately, to see how the last sentence of Bosko Obradovic's MP reads. That's what I'm looking for right now. I'm taking a 10-minute break, because I can't run a session where MPs play with such terrible insults. Indeed, I am unable to participate in such insults both per state and per parliament. And I'm not funny or funny. Not everything is allowed to be pronounced in this House. [[after breaks]] Sit down, please, it takes more time to get a stenogram, but then I'll definitely take a break. The word has a folk MP, Miroslav Aleksic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18679	Thank you, Chairman. As for some MPs who called me "The First Five-year-old", I would like to inform them that she went bankrupt and shut down on 1 January 2016. I'd like to ask you to be more informed about this. By 2014, until you came to power, she worked without delay in earnings, with paid contributions, certified health books, but you took care of her, as you took care of IMT, as you did "14. October," as you took out FAP from Priboj and other companies. As for my performance as president of the municipality of Trstenik, Mr. Sretenović is here, they were in control of Tristenik, so they looked at it nicely, looked at it, and it would be a treasure to you if you had at least a similar president of the municipality to boast about the results and what was done there. So you'd better cover your head and shut up. This gentleman who answered this show, I didn't even know he was running it, so I apologize if I offended you. I knew the name of the show, but I didn't know who was running it. On TV Tristenik, while the public service was, while I was president of the municipality, everyone appeared on it and went to all the press conferences, unlike this time, now that it is controlled by people close to Bratislav Gasic, who privatised it, no one has a chance to say anything anymore. I have to say that the three of you who replicated me didn't answer any of my questions, so I'm going to do it again. So why is there no proposal for a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency on the agenda for 22 months? Why is there no report for the Anti-Corruption Agency for two years? Is the anti-corruption law passed? Is there a law on the origin of the property passed? Is Serbia 72nd in the anti-corruption index? Are public enterprises depolitized and professionalized? Have 24 controversial privatisations been resolved? Is it true that you ignored the report on Sinisha Mal and Niko Selakovic? I thank you and answer your questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18680	Thank you. Just a moment to assess the presentation of MPs Obradovic. We've all read what you've said, and we've decided to give you a warning. The word has been made by MP Milena Turk, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18681	I thank the president. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated because my previous speaker tried to lead the public astray by providing information that is incomplete, but I would therefore be happy to supplement it. As for "Fridays", while my previous speaker was the president of the municipality, his mother-in-law was the deputy general director of the factory "First Five-year-old". His father-in-law, director of the National Employment Service, a wife employed on television, so one network and Trstenik is called the Principality, because the name of the Tastina is also called Knezevic. During that time, 25m euros of the Development Fund arrived in Petolet, while a 120m-euro debt was made at the same time. So, all this was approved by the Management Board of the factory, which included Miroslav Aleksic, and his mother-in-law, father-in-law, and all the committees of the United Regions of Serbia. So you couldn't even be on the Supervisory Board if you weren't a member of the URS, let alone get a job. Today, the factory has been working for a year and a half, so in these 10 years it's been brought to 1,300 workers. Today, for a year and a half, the factory employs 900 workers, regularly settles taxes, contributions, electricity and water, everything it has never paid and operates without any government aid. She kept all her vitals, despite a negative campaign run by the municipal leadership, we remember that well. And as far as television is concerned, it was paid by the money of the Triestenik municipality and it was supposed to be the service of all citizens back then, but it wasn't. We were named by name and last name, we didn't get a chance to defend ourselves, our effects were called out, and we didn't get a moment's chance to deny or defend ourselves, or to deliver our results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18682	MPs, you've replicated, and I have to take away the MP's group two minutes from the total time. Because it is not for punishment, we cannot compare it when someone compares parliament with Auschwitz and what he's replicated, don't just shout, as well as 99% of the MPs, and I recommend you amend a little Rules of Procedure so that you don't actually hurt the Rules of Procedure, which is essentially a tool for replicating, which is essentially everyone. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18683	I would like to thank Madam President of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, and I would like to announce Article 103 that you have already spoken of. I'm glad you recognized that, that you made a mistake, but I'm not glad you didn't take away the word from the previous speaker, as you're taking away from us from the opposition, when we abuse, as you said, any member of the Rules of Procedure. She talked all the time about some nebuloses that I won't even comment on, because there's no argument. But on the other hand, you allowed her to talk about it, aware that she was replicating me, which she had no right to, I didn't mention at all, but through advertising the Rules of Procedure she was talking about some topics that had nothing to do with the current debate. I'm asking you to understand that, because even before I did, you took the blame and said it was a replica, not an advertising of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18684	I take the blame. I fixed it. If parliament is going to be more polite and get back on the agenda, here's the blame for what's been going on here in parliament this morning, but let's get back to the agenda debate. This is also due to the representatives of the proposings here and the citizens of Serbia. The next speaker on the list, Veroljub Arsic. Let Jovan Jovanovic prepare himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18685	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I have nothing against fellow Alexic, his father-in-law, his mother-in-law. Congratulations, it just means you knew how to get married, get married. Now, I see there's been a discussion here about whether or not a colleague can ask. Of course he can. Do I find that insolent? I believe, because we discussed the reports and the Anti-Corruption Agency and the Citizens' Protectors and the DRI, while there was no question during the government of Boris Tadic. Now I don't mind the former SNS's bankruptcy director, because he was then declared the SNS's bankruptcy director for four years had to wait for him to enter parliament. So will the new bankruptcy director of the SNS. The question is whether he will ever enter parliament again. In this whole election story and the Guardian of Citizens and the Council of the Anti-Corruption and Fiscal Council, many fellow MPs can say that they insult the dignity of the National Assembly. According to the Guardian of Citizens and to others, to call the Independents, they act as if they were deities, that no one can tell them anything, that no one can answer them, that no one can criticize their work. You know what surprised me the most? Here is the representative of another independent state authority, why didn't you defend Mr. Sretenovic? He, even more importantly, is doing a much more important job than the Agency, Protector of Citizens and Sabic. What, he's not political? Because he's politically neutral? Is that why you're not defending him? That's your motive when you talk about independents. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sorry that some of my fellow Members of Parliament are helping to establish a fourth branch of government that does not exist under the Constitution and in political theory. The fourth branch of government, they call themselves, are independent state bodies. They are not independent; they are independent of the executive authority; they are not of the National Assembly. Are they reporting to us? They're putting up Are we considering this report? Do we adopt, vote yes or no, as anyone wants? Do we choose them? Each for his work corresponds to the National Assembly. So, the National Assembly must accomplish its own supervisory role in the work of the executive authority. Does the National Assembly have the capacity to do that? No, but that's why we have a DRI doing it on behalf of the National Assembly. Do we have instruments to protect the rights of citizens who conduct some administrative procedure against some state authority? We don't, but that's why we choose the Protector of the Citizens who will do it for us and for us. Don't let me count on it. The Anti-Corruption Agency, you know what it is? A normal regulatory body, nothing more. It's not even a constitutional category. I do not underestimate its role in the legal system, because the Anti-Corruption Agency regulates what is considered a conflict of interest, where there is a potential danger of corruption and where corruption exists. I also didn't see that report discussed until 2012. As I recall, here Mrs Babic defended her report on the work of the National Assembly after 2012 and Mr Sretenovic defended his report. And Jankovic defended his report and Mr Sabic defended his report, but something you must understand is that every MP talks about the bearers of those organs as if they were independent of us. Insults and the National Assembly and other MPs and citizens who voted in favour of the electoral lists regardless of who they voted for and whose list they supported. We are bearers of the sovereignty of the citizens and do not give it up. When I look at how misused the trust of the MPs when we chose, let's say, the Guardian of Citizens, and how even some MPs helped to make this abuse of trust, by the National Assembly, come into expression. You see, the whole process and how the Guardian of Citizens should not work and where the Constitution and the law were violated and where it comes out of its jurisdiction, is a famous affair called "Helicopter". So that's what's been going on for days. It was even occupied by the Security Control Committee, etc. I can't say that the citizens' protector, Sasa Jankovic, broke the law and the Constitution. What is the role of the Protector of the Citizens? To take care of one of the most ordinary administrative procedures conducted in front of a state body, nothing more, that there is no silence of the administration, that there is no material breach of the procedure, etc., of which it informs - the National Assembly. Does the Protector of the Citizens have the right to control the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? There's no under the Constitution. Can he control the government of the President of the Republic? There's no under the Constitution. Can he control the work of the National Assembly? He has no right under the Constitution. Can he control the judicial authorities? He can't control it. Can he control the prosecutor's office? He can't control it. How about the minister? Yeah, but when? By the time the prosecutor delivers a request for data collection, from that moment on, the Citizens' Protector has nothing to look for in that ministry, then the prosecutor took over the role of Protectors of Citizens and it is by law and by the Constitution. Now, how do we, how do some of the former regimes make a political career for their future candidate for president? You see, he goes to the President of the Republic, who's also not in charge of it. The President of the Republic cannot order the National Assembly to behave. Furthermore, since he knew he couldn't accomplish anything because they weren't the constitutional powers of the president, he called a press conference and said, "I'm not allowed to do my job as Protectors of Citizens." That's when he came out of the constitutional and legal system of the Republic. Who was he supposed to inform about? The president of the National Assembly and the chairman of the National Assembly's board of directors, but then there are no journalists, no political escorts, no creation and no stories of an affair, no political support for any candidate of the President of the Republic. Well, that's why we had a lot of media, I might say, pounding empty straw over that case. And you have to agree that the prosecutor, both under the Constitution and by law, has far greater powers than the Civilian Protector, even the Prosecutor of the Republic of Public Prosecutor's Office can initiate legal proceedings if a state body in some ordinary administrative procedure has violated the law. But it was important to introduce himself here that we don't respect the Guardian of Citizens. No, gentlemen of the former regime, you helped protect the citizens of Sasa Jankovic to humiliate the National Assembly. And now we're asking a question about the continuity of that government. Well, do you want as MPs to humiliate the citizens who voted for you to carry on such a continuity of such a policy that is being conducted by Simeon. Now, as far as the Anti-Corruption Agency Act is concerned. As far as I'm aware, this law and the story of the law has set up a council that no longer exists at the Anti-Corruption Agency, where they were asked to have, or the Assembly to give them, prosecutorial powers. That's what the bill says. So, what do we need a prosecutor for? It's just for smugglers and pedophiles. Everything else, let the Agency do. Well, he can't. So the state can't function ad hoc. She has her own system, don't break that system. There were stories about the Fiscal Council. You know what, if someone was dealing with the Fiscal Council, I don't believe it's anyone more than me and this Assembly, and at board meetings. That's because often their statements resembled politics, because their presentations, you'll agree, once upon a time, have improved, I don't want when I was chairman of the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds to learn about their three-month report from media funds. Well, he can't. Well, you still answer to the National Assembly for your work. Have their evaluations so far been correct? Most of them aren't. Did you like them? Mostly they are. Just because they began to realize that the results were constantly denied, they improved their way of working and reporting. Why does that bother you? So let's show Serbia's situation the way it isn't. The International Monetary Fund says -- reforms are being implemented well, Serbia is on track to recover its public finances and raise its production. You say it's not true. The fiscal advice that you even chose, here, now we choose them the second time, here we don't change everything, he said the same thing, now he says we're on the right track, now it bothers you. Now it bothers you that the euro, let's say, in five years' time has jumped from a dinar to just a little bit more than one dinar, and that bothers you. Now you have a problem with inflation being 1%, and it was 10%. So, I don't mind criticizing the National Assembly, but make an argument and don't change the thesis. You know, one MP said a dozen days ago -- foreign exchange reserves are a billion dollars less than in 2012. I stand up and say -- now a billion euros is bigger, and what now? It's both true, but let's do something to at least lead that political struggle the way it really does. That's, besides, up to you. Because of everything that's been said, I respect the meaning of all the so-called. independent bodies working for the National Assembly and on behalf of the National Assembly, I want candidates, if elected, to succeed in the work and hope that they will be better, and that is not difficult, but their predecessors, because their predecessors served only the former regime to cover all those illegalities that were until 2012. (Miroslav Aleksic: Replica, president, mentioned me by name and last name. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18686	The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18687	Thank you. It is expected that, due to the importance of the function and the political charge that follows, the most controversy in this session is the choice of a new Citizens' Protector. At the centre of attention, above all, a question of the continuity of the work of this institution was found. So I would like to remind the motions of the ruling coalition of the already slightly forgotten social theorist of the leading personality of this regime, Max Weber, who pointed out that continuity is one of the main characteristics of good government. Unfortunately, instead of the continuity of quality work and the strengthening of this independent body, the expected choice of Mr Pasalic will probably only give us the continuity of devising and weakening independent institutions. This collapse of independent bodies is contrary to the declared strategic goal of Serbia's entry into the EU, which is contained in the first sentence of the recently elected Prime Minister's exposé. In particular, the European institutions stress in their reports the need to strengthen independent institutions and the rule of law, as one of the preconditions for Serbia's further approach to the EU, and with such behaviour we will only be further away from that goal. The Law on the Protector of Citizens provides for conditions that must be met by a candidate, which are: that a graduate is a lawyer, that he has at least 10 years of experience in relevant legal affairs, that he has high moral and professional qualities and that he has observed experience in protecting citizens' rights. Last week's session of the Assembly Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, which presented four candidates, undoubtedly showed that only one meeting the prescribed conditions, Mr Milos Jankovic, the current performer of the Civil Protection Officer. Mr Jankovic is strongly recommended not only by professional and personal quality and long-term work to protect human rights and the international reputation he has acquired, but also by the support he has received from a large number of civil society organisations that have been dealing with the issue of protection of human rights for many years. According to these organizations, most of whom are gathered around the house of human rights, for 10 years the Guardian of Citizens has built strong authority and gained great trust in the citizens, and no doubt, along with the previous Protector, the greatest contribution was made by his deputy, and the current performer of functions, Mr Milos Jankovic. Contrary to this unequivocally qualified candidate, the ruling coalition has decided, at the last moment, although the former Citizens' Protector resigned early in February, to propose a candidate who does not meet all of the above-mentioned legal requirements. It is, unfortunately, just a continuation of the systematic collapse of independent bodies, such as REM, the Anti-Corruption Agency, and the Constitutional Court. We are witnessing the continuation of the sad practice of the incredible ease of accepting functions by those who do not have the appropriate qualifications, as we had the case in selecting the members of the previously mentioned institutions and not just them. Anyone holding on to himself would, listening to the exposure of an uncomparedly qualified candidate, give up his candidacy and thank the promoters for their expressed confidence. On the contrary, Mr Pasalic even avoided answering many of the MPs' questions about how he sees the future work of the institution he is likely to be headed, with an excuse that he would have to first look at its functioning. He indirectly admitted that he wasn't qualified for this place. I would also refer to the attempt to relativise the importance of the fact that the candidate for the Protector of Citizens studied for 13 years because he worked at the same time, and that the average was barely something above six. These facts only show a real attitude toward the profession he was trained for, that is, toward what was to be his primary obligation. It is also necessary to stress that in the previous period there were too many expectations from the Citizens' Protectors who should above all be the last statement and correction of the authorities. That is why the government should not seek to be satisfied with the work of the Protector of citizens, or that it expects the institution to have a beneficial relationship. I would therefore like the authorities not to be satisfied with his work, although I doubt that will happen, as it has already been announced from the top of the government that this function will give meaning and content to which this institution is established. Based on the behaviour of the ruling coalition so far, I am convinced that the understanding of this meaning and content is certainly not in line with the role set by the Constitution to the Protector of Citizens, to be an independent state body that protects the rights of citizens and controls the work of the authorities of the state administration. In light of recent tragic developments in relation to domestic violence, which have quite rightly upset the public in Serbia, it is necessary to highlight the important role of the Protectors in the fight against this type of violence, as well as in protecting equality. Unfortunately, these unfortunate events are also due to the neglect of the recommendations of independent bodies, including the Citizens' Protector. During the past year alone, the institution has launched a control procedure for 14 cases of women's murders and in as many as 12 identified failures in the work of the competent authorities and services. Moreover, the latest report by the Citizens' Protectors for 2016 contains 45 systematic and key recommendations for removing the gaps he has identified in this area, which are addressed to all relevant ministries. This tall House is not least honored that it was also part of those institutions that ignored the recommendations by not considering the last three citizens' protectors' reports. Since the newly elected Protector will have the support of the ruling majority, it can be assumed that this bad practice will change in the future and will likely be one of the few positive shifts in the work of this institution. To conclude, the Citizens' Platform and the Independent Members' Club believe that by further collapse of independent institutions, we are increasingly moving away from an orderly democratic state based on the rule of law and therefore cannot support Mr Pasalic's choice as the Protector of Citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18688	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18689	Thank you. I don't know, Honorable President, why in my case you've been brutally breaking the Rules of Procedure twice, the first time I've advertised Article 103, and now I'm advertising Article 104, because you haven't given me the right to reply, even though I have the right to do so by my Rules of Procedure. When Mr. Arsic mentioned me by name and last name, me and my family in a negative context, you should have warned him about it, but when you didn't, then at least you should have given me the right to the line. So, I understand that the only answer to the facts that I'm saying here and I'm looking for answers about the results is that they're attacking me and my family brutally... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18690	What do you say? (Miroslav Aleksic: Why did you turn off my microphone? Come in, I'll be right back. (Miroslav Aleksic: What have I broken now, so you shut me down? You didn't break anything, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18691	Thank you. So I'm looking for a stenogram to prove that he mentioned me and that you didn't give me a replica of his exposure, even though he mentioned my family in a negative context, even though by the way you mentioned them in those companies did much more than I did in politics. But it doesn't matter, it's your style of debauchery, pointing fingers at others and attacking all those who tell you what you're doing and what you're making of Serbia. So, please put this on the agenda in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18692	Thank you for saving my argument. Otherwise, Article 104 says something different than what you're saying, but I don't want to add any more pain, because Article 104 has more attitudes, and Article 3 speaks about who gives the replica and who estimates whether there are replicas. The word is Krsto Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18693	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in a single sentence, I'm under the impression of the previous speaker and those stories of morality, and he could probably have noticed that too, the previous Protector of Citizens, simply, at the wedding of the first neighbour, is going with fewer family members than he has numbered them to functions in his municipality at that time. So, you just need to have some measure in life. This is where classes are held by those who measure nothing at all. The Law on the Protector of Citizens, article 10a says – The Protector of Citizens and the Deputy Protector of Citizens cannot give statements of political nature. We had a session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and had the opportunity to get acquainted with the candidate's plan, their biographies and what we consider to be an addition to their résumés. I have not noticed anywhere that Mr. Zoran Pasalic did not answer the questions he was asked, except for the part where the applicants agreed with their candidates, asked questions and these provided answers for the needs of a new internet campaign to present their students as good and suitable candidates, and everyone else did not. So, one of them, Mr. Biljic, about whose biography I don't want to say anything bad, has endured for a long time without his address getting a political connotation. It was only at the very end of his first sentence that he began with political evaluations. So there's some progress in them. As for Mr Milos Jankovic, he gave a better political speech than his proposings, and two parties proposed him. And we're going to talk now that he won't break the law and that, along with Sasha Jankovic, he hasn't broken the law? He was telling a standard story. He was worried about the condition in the tabloids. It is likely that the tabloids have not yet blacked out the ruling structure and the president's family now, then prime minister when they were protectors, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. He could've noticed that. This is where we saw the peak of that mud running through the tabloids, and more and more through the more serious newspapers. As he didn't notice at least then to say, at least once to say that almost all the members of the Alexander Vukic family were the scariest dragged through the mud in the media and there was no media darkness. Father, mother, brother, son, daughter. The only narrow family member who hasn't been dragged through the mud is the youngest son who's just over a month old. That he is alive and well, if the first word he utters is the word “dad, ” he will be suspicious. No one's responding to that, at least to mention it. Mr. Milos Jankovic for the thousandth time said the word "Savamal", so let's take an example when we're on the subject of illegal construction, that through one example of how the Citizens' Protector was working, who they said the new candidates were just the continuity of the work of that Citizens' Protector, let's see through one example of illegal construction as Sasa Jankovic acted. He went to Cajetin to support his fellow presidential candidate Milan Stamatovic. He went to support that construction anarchy and the illegal construction that was present there. Here's an example of who were the protégés of a man whose continuity is sought through the candidates offered to us next to Zoran Pasalić. By reporting to the DRI about Chajetina, building that famous gondola, you can confirm it to us, Your Honor, there has been an illegal procedure for the purchase of equipment for that gondola. So on the basis of such a procedure, the municipality owed close to 10m euros. The dedicated loan was only taken on the basis of an idea solution without resolved property relations, the building permit of the main project. This was supported by Sasa Jankovic, and such a policy is sought for continuity. Imagine, you're getting a 10m-euro gondola, you don't know where it's supposed to go. Imagine, building a railroad and ordering all the infrastructure, and you don't know where to go, whether that tunnel goes or not. Approximately, give me a rail for half a million euros. It had the support of the former Protector. Why? Because they were together against Alexander Vukic. That's enough in that case. To be clear, the SNS, the Serbian government, the competent ministry have nothing against installing a gondola on Zlatibor. The Serbian Progressive Party is against and we are against the installation in gondola. That's our policy. When we ask the protégé of Sasu Jankovic, a protégé, when you ask him through the media how such procurement could be done and what procedure was done, the answer is – NATO pact planes are taking off from the Ponika airport. No planes take off, nothing but nonsense from his announcements. When you ask him again how it could have been such a procurement, the answer is – I beat Alexander Vukic. Okay, you win, how could you conduct such a procurement? The answer is, you offered me money to join the SNS. Not if we didn't offer him money to join the SNS, but if they were members of the SNS, we would pay them not to be members of the SNS anymore. So we had a choice between continuity with Sasha Jankovic. I gave an example of how it relates to a construction anarchy that is present in one part of our country. I believe that Mr. Zoran Pasalic is the right choice, that he will do his job and be exposed to the pressures of those who claim to be led by a healthy political vision, and in fact by a political commission, by those who hate the EU and who worship the euro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18694	Thank you. I assume by the Rules of Procedure, colleague Nemanja Sarovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18695	Mr Marinkovic, the Rules of Procedure and once more of the ruling coalition's representatives have been re-injured. You were obliged as chairman to warn him of this, and if necessary to read his agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18696	What member?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18697	I'll say. A member of 106 who says - the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted. The protection of citizens or candidate for the Protector of Citizens, as I read it, is not Milan Stamatovic. From what I understand, there's no gondola built on Zlatibor. So it has absolutely nothing to do with it. So, representatives of the ruling coalition who have themselves admitted that they know nothing about candidates, but they say -- the SNS has proposed that we vote, then they deal with everything and everything. They'd better have read the material, and if they haven't already done it, or if they don't answer for a word, or if you warn them nicely. In particular, warn those who are now getting it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18698	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18699	I've got 50 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18700	But don't turn it into a replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18701	The Rules of Procedure prohibits anyone other than the Chairman, and in the Rules of Procedure provided for in the circumstances, to interrupt the speaker. So neither Mr. Orlic nor Mr. Martinovic, nor all those who are now nervous because they are affected by the truth and who are getting it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18702	No one's nervous. Thank you for giving us an order on the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18703	Now Mr. Markovic asks what this is. This is the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18704	Thank you. The second time I gave you permission and you turned the apparition to a breach of the Rules of Procedure into a replica. I believe that I did not violate the Rules of Procedure and that my colleague Krsto Janjušević was simply in the context of his discussion on the subject we are discussing today at the plenary session of not gondola, but simply, I listened carefully to him, about the double arches that someone who was the Protector of citizens had in the previous period, so I believe I did not violate the Rules of Procedure. Would you like the National Assembly to come forward in the voting day? Nemanja Sarovic: Yes. ) Thank you, colleague Sarovic. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. She's not present. The word is from a colleague named Marjana Maraš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18705	Thank you, Chairman. In support of all that an authorised representative of the SPS has said in his presentation, I would like to point out a few more things. The public defender should be independent and independent, no one has the right to influence his work and his actions. When he makes an oath, he undertakes to carry out his duties in a responsible, impartial and independent manner, in accordance with the Constitution, the law, he will securely work to protect and improve rights and freedoms. The protection of citizens should control the rights of citizens, determine the injuries committed by acts, actions or by the inaction of the authority of the administration. Incompatible performance of other public function or professional activity, as well as belonging to the political party. The citizens' protector may propose laws under his jurisdiction, as well as to initiate assessments of the constitutionality of laws and other regulations and general acts. It can publicly recommend the resolution of the officials responsible for the violation of citizens' rights. After the function has ceased, it is obliged to store the secret information they have come to, as a secret to store the data they have come to perform their duties as the Protector and his deputies, as well as all those who are in the service. It submits an annual report on the data it has seen on shortcomings in the authorities of the administration, and proposes measures to improve the position of citizens in relation to the authorities of the administration. And, finally, what I want to point out, one of the pillars of the SPS programme is equality, and I'm sure and I believe that the Protector of the Citizens that we're going to choose tomorrow, above all, will be all citizens equal in front of him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18706	Thank you, colleague Marash. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go, Dr. Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18707	Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen and gentlemen, this is a very important topic and my discussion will mostly be to say something about why we have not invited people we should choose to talk about today for such an important topic. I know it's not the legal obligation of this assembly, but this is a fact, some kind of competition. So we had candidates, we had multiple candidates who applied for various functions, which are proposed for various functions. Can you imagine any competition, any choice, let's say for a job for a position, and whoever signed up to take that position doesn't come to talk to the one who has to choose it. I think it's pointless. And not only that, but in situations where this happened, such as one committee discussion, one member of the National Assembly, one MP suggested one of the candidates that he didn't have to talk about and answer the questions of the MPs they had for him. Why are we even here today, why are we discussing these people here? Why are the cameras filming this session? Because we need to determine what kind of people are coming to those positions. So, in order to be able to determine that well, in order to know what kind of people we're dealing with then they should be here to hear our questions, to answer some of these questions, so that we can get a good estimate of whether we should vote for them tomorrow, or not. We also owe it to the citizens for what is happening here is for the citizens of Serbia who are interested in this topic and the citizens of Serbia who are watching this would also like to know who are the people we will choose in their name in those positions. But they don't know anything about it. If these people were here today, let's say that the candidate for the Guardian of Citizens is here today, he could say that he understands his function, that he understands the function of the Protector of Citizens, that he will personally behave in certain situations that are typical of that function, or in some similar situations that have occurred in the near past. Remember, for example, that about a year or so ago, on the night between April 24th and 25th of last year, a part of the city in downtown Belgrade was destroyed, and that nobody allegedly knew about it, that no body had responded, that the police had been called to intervene, and had not intervened, that the municipal police had not been invited to intervene, and that the citizens whose property was threatened in those cases could not do anything. For example, the new Citizens' Protector, or candidate for him, would react in those cases. For example, these are some typical cases where citizens no longer have anyone to turn to, and the future candidate might tell us something that he understands. I think it's very bad that we don't have these people present here and that we can't hear from them what their reactions would be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18708	Thank you, Dr. Pavlovic. The word came from George Komlenski. On what grounds? All right, like an authorized promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18709	I apologize for having to take up time again, both for the citizens of Serbia and for your distinguished colleagues, but it would be very good if members of a parliamentary group had read the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly, if they had read the Law on the Protector of Citizens, and if they had stopped making the truth about how the committee's session took place. If they had done these three things, they would have known that candidates today had no right to attend this session and would not have fooled the citizens of Serbia, they would not have raised themselves above the Rules of Procedure, above the law, insisting both today and at the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, on something they absolutely have no right to. It was their right to ask questions, and it was also the right of candidates to present themselves at that session in any way. That's what happened at the committee session. It is my pleasure again in the same way that Mr. Krsta Janjusevic has noticed very well, and otherwise, when we talk about it, and not answering questions, I have to say that Mr. Krsta Janjusevic has noticed very well, that the candidates who were for the citizens' protectors have not answered those questions that should have dragged them in, but are now giving political statements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18710	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. Sasa Radulovic, on what basis are you answering? (Saša Radulovic: Replica. How can a replica? He absolutely didn't mention you or the party. (Saša Radulovic: I am mentioned. He spoke at the committee session where I was present. No, it really doesn't matter, we'll wait another time if there's a chance, I really don't have the right to give you a line. Goran Kovacevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18711	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Komlensky, I think you're looking for something in vain. What you're looking for is impossible. No matter which part of the agenda comes to the debate, we hear about two, three topics that spin around constantly in circles. So we're going to hear the same story from this other side in the future. Let me remind you that today is on the agenda one of the things we're voting on is the fiscal council's election. I think when we pick the fiscal council days, we actually send a three-way message. That message is very simple. The first concerns the functioning, i.e. the economic policy that the state of Serbia should lead. Another thing is the development of institutions, i.e. progress in the functioning of the Fiscal Council, and it is the third choice of the Fiscal Council itself. When we choose the Fiscal Council today, in fact, we as a state are sending a message that we want to lead economic policy. We are in favour of the SNS on this side of the ruling opposition for a clean market economy that implies total freedom both on the labour market and on the product market, both in the capital market. This is not an issue that is important to nations, for parliaments who have not been fortunate to be in one of the systems in which we have been in, but this is very important to say, that Serbia advocates economic policy to respect clear economic principles. Why does it matter? Because today in Serbia, even in this Assembly, you have a practical revision of economic history. We can hear something that's long past today. We today, plunging in the congregation, can hear what the favorite theme of foreign investment subsidies looks like. And we can't agree, hear, Serbian citizens can't understand that we're sending the same message, nor will we ever send it. Why? Because we read different data. If you take the report on the Republic of Serbia's 2017 budget, for the first six months, you have 36 billion on the side of the subsidy, or 6.9% of the budget, but these are not subsidies given to foreign investments. For economic subsidies, 3 billion 339 per cent or only 0.6 per cent of total expenditure, or slightly less than 0.6 per cent of total revenues. Then you have subsidies to agriculture that are four times bigger, subsidies to railways that are three times bigger and when we're discussing today and when we listen to criticism about subsidies that we give to businesses to survive and to invest, we listen to a story about 0.6% of the budget and there's no better picture. Serbian citizens should know about subsidies instead of what we could hear today and these days, when we hear that a foreign European country wants to finance the transition of a model to its country and that it costs several hundred million euros, then the question arises - what are the different principles in operation? How do those in the EU have the right to finance the manufacturer who needs to leave us and that's not the problem, which is the problem when we do it? These are pointless subjects. This is the difference that we in SNS send and I fully agree that this economic demagogy is very often found on fertile soil in foreign countries. Why? Because today you have a problem in the world regarding protectionism. The leading economic countries that were dominant in the liberal economy today advocate protectionism. Only two days ago we could hear that the president of the Chinese Parliament said that China advocates a free economy, a free market, and that it is against any subsidy, and those who do not understand that, of course they will never understand what they know about the economy. Essential fiscal policy, namely the Fiscal Council, defines how we want to function, what kind of economic policy we want to lead. The other important thing is when we choose the Fiscal Council, we actually want to continue to function as a fiscal institution that matters. It is not an institution that has been functioning in Serbia for a long time, but it is certainly an institution that is important for the fiscal order. When we talk about the Fiscal Council, it is indisputable that the Fiscal Council has never taken account, or that it does not determine the functioning of macroeconomic parameters. It is essentially there to help two key institutions, primarily the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is responsible for macroeconomic parameters, i.e. the Ministry of Finance for fiscal parameters and the National Bank for Monetary Parameters. The fiscal council is here to give advice. When we talk about macroeconomic parameters today, then we should thank the government of the Republic of Serbia and former President Aleksandr Vukic, because Serbia is practically an economic exception that has achieved incredible macroeconomic parameters. The fiscal policy in the domain of the finance ministry is certainly the best rated fiscal policy by the IMF in Serbia's history. What about the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia, which has an inflation rate of 1.6% and foreign currency growth of 0.6% in the last three years? These are all parameters that speak enough and clearly indicate that fiscal monetary policy, or macroeconomic parameters, and the Fiscal Council is only part of this economic policy, represents a significant shift compared to what we had in the previous period of time. Of course, today we choose people of flesh and blood. When we elect members of the Fiscal Council, in fact we choose Pavel Petrovic as president of the Fiscal Council, and there is no today in the economic professional public, there is no one in the political public, almost no one, nor in the Serbian Parliament, who will dispute with the name of the President of the Fiscal Council. The president of the Fiscal Council is a man of enormous economic reputation and, together with Minister Vujovic, it is probably a living economic legend and an honor to be part of and listen sometimes to both the Serbian Parliament and the Budget Committee. It is crucial that we understand that Serbia's economy must move forward. To move forward, there must be institutions. One of the institutions that contributes to a different look is the Fiscal Council, but it certainly is the DRI whose president is sitting here. The state audit institution, the Fiscal Council, the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank and the Serbian government are changing Serbia's economic order and it looks different, each from its own corner. Of course they're different roles but the result is perfectly good and perfectly clear. It's simple, today and tomorrow when we vote for the Fiscal Council, we vote for a different economic order that we've kind of changed and that's yielding results since 2015. It is too difficult and it is wrong to return to Serbia in this way, to send very often populist economic messages that have cost Serbia an awful lot since 1946. That is why it is a great pleasure when you can practically support the team in a broader sense, and in particular tomorrow's President of the Fiscal Council, Pavel Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18712	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18713	Thank you, Vice President. During this whole debate, as if one single question were raised – do these people we need to vote for even know what kind of jobs we choose to do today or tomorrow? Does one who will run and be elected Protector of the Citizens know that he will be elected Protector of citizens in a country in which police are ordered not to respond to calls from bound citizens? Does this man know that he will be the Protector of citizens in a country where workers who strike in accordance with the law are organised by a media hack in which they are appointed by top officials by the government as haters of the state, as investors, for the cause of all our destruction? Does this man know that the previous Protector of the Citizens at the time he asked – what does the Prime Minister's brother do with a security guard in which no law in this country belongs has declared him a murderer? Do those running for the Fiscal Council know they're running for the Fiscal Council in a country where the Fiscal Council warns about secret contracts year after year, and the answer is that it makes more secret contracts. Does he know that he is running for the Fiscal Council from year to year for a fiscal council warning that he does not know who the subsidies are given to, or how these firms are selected, or on the basis of which the subsidy is given, or how many subsidies are given, and the state's answer is to give even more subsidies to its private business partners? Does the candidate for the Fiscal Council know that he is running for the Fiscal Council in a country where the Fiscal Council says that local self-government is in front of bankruptcy, and the answer is: to take away even more money from local self-government. Do those running for the Anti-Corruption Agency know that the biggest ruling party is hiding its campaign finances that its top officials insult the Anti-Corruption Agency when it asks questions about some of the parties' affairs, do they know that they are running for the Anti-Corruption Agency in a country where news came yesterday that no local self-government in Serbia has formed anti-corruption bodies that were their obligation? Do all these people who run for those positions know that they are running for regulatory bodies in a country where our current president, and then the prime minister says he doesn't want the president to call him, the media dealing with the investigation of corruption called foreign mercenaries, which the OSCE calls liars at the moment when they say - that maybe it's not all great with freedom of the media, does he know that we don't talk about their names at all today? We're talking today about your relationship with the citizens, to the state, to the rule of law, according to the fact that you're willing to silence anyone who points to any mistake you're making, and the job of all these people we choose today is to point to the mistakes you're making. These people, who run, must know that you can't stand that someone points to your mistakes, that you don't need any collective factor, that you're ready to deal with anyone who indicates that you're making any mistakes and that if they want to be honest and in accordance with the law that they're doing the job that they're running for, and that they're going to be elected tomorrow, they're not going to be able to work with you so far. These people need to know that you need a protector of power, not a Protector of citizens. And for that, or for those people, you should say that you will not tolerate any rule of law, that you will not suffer any criticism on their part, so that they know what they are and give up, or say they agree to it, agree to such conditions of business, and only then do we know that we are certainly right not to vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18714	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18715	Thank you very much. Based on the mention of the party president, for whoever asks, and some note-type – the nagging, which should mean that here responds to any criticism and that there is no criticism here and that someone is terribly allergic, etc. And that's how it's spread. What criticism, ladies and gentlemen? And what can't it do in this country without having to do with freedoms or any minimum of human dignity or taste? Are you talking about dead people for a living man? Where did you see that? Where was it that anyone saw in this white world that such a thing was normal, decent and desirable? Nowhere. And can that happen in Serbia? Unfortunately, we can all see that. And not only does that happen, but that none of those who talk day and night respond to it, whose mouth is full of worry about freedom, rights and criticism. Did one of those who complained about it again say, "That's not right." Did anyone react from those independent press associations? It's not. And why is that? It will be that silence in this case, and not just this one, means approval. Criticism is allowed or is not allowed when, for example, someone who is an MP, from the ranks of those who are deeply concerned about this criticism, takes the order and hangs a photograph of his fellow MPs on Twitter with a comment – the open door of the Serbian parliament. What does that mean to him - Serbian? It probably means that he doesn't feel like he belongs here alone, but much more problematic. The whole zoo was set up to sit in the bench. Is it normal in this white world somewhere decent, is it a quality of education or elitism? And can it be in Serbia? Unfortunately, we can see that it can. Before the next time they say that something here is forbidden or that someone here is unwarrantedly reacting, may they ask themselves whether the things themselves that are below every minimum, human dignity and level work or perhaps condemn them? They won't be convicted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18716	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic. Excuse me, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18717	Shall we talk about the Fiscal Council? I guess an authorized promoter can say something about the Fiscal Council. So, the fiscal council issue, do they know that subsidies will be hidden from the public eye, and then you have a Serbian Development Agency that has its official reports on subsidies, so you have the Fund for the Development of Serbia, which also has meetings of the board of directors that cite complete decisions with subsidies from Serbia's budget, listed in all procedures, but we can't put a global number of subsidies due to the "Fiyat" and we can't put it for "Jura", because you've made such contracts that are a business secret and can't have that total figure standing together. Perhaps you were referring to subsidies from the "Vojvodine Development Bank" or the Vojvodina Fund compared to the list "Kurr"? Maybe there's some three million subsidies we don't know, because maybe not three, but maybe six, seven, eight, and we'll just figure it out. It is only as the Finance Committee that we ask the Ministry of Finance to give us how much, in fact, under the sign of subsidies, that you have helped some of the political power centers with which you have been campaigning today for more than two months against the president of Serbia. So, all of this is tied up somewhere, and all of this is going to be examined by the Fiscal Council, as it did one major analysis concerning local self-government, finance, problems, risks and recommendations, and he said that in the period 2008 to 2012, Belgrade invested over 200m euros annually in an economically unsustainable way by borrowing, that the debt of the city of Belgrade grew from 60m euros in 2007 to 410m euros in 2013, 65% of the city's revenues, and the rapper was 50%, that it came to the fact that 1,1202m euros, and of course, the responsible power of Mr Sinishi Mali today is doubled. So, we're going to find a lot of things, so we're going to find out, as Mr. Paunovic, the mayor of Paracina, says -- everyone at the bar is responsible for the Republic and for the fiscal council. So it's this fiscal council that you support, and your political actors at the bar are simply fighting it. So the Fiscal Council knows very well how much money he owes and knows very well how to do the analysis. Of course, he calls for official data from all state institutions and therefore gives his assessment. Whether that grade is too strict or even sometimes too mild, it's up to us to evaluate it here. For this, there is the Ministry of Finance, which takes that assessment into account and the real budget proposal for next year. Therefore, do not be so angry with the Fiscal Council that it has remained in the same composition since 2011, because it could not say a word until 2012, and since 2012, at least it can bring its estimates to the public and according to these estimates, respectively, all governments have worn out and implemented economic reforms and fiscal consolidation since 2012. You may not like it, but all the actors in the international environment are saying that the results exist and all of them give congratulations to Serbia, whether you like it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18718	Thank you. Before I give my colleague Balshi Bozovic a word, just one explanation. I am obliged to ask every MP what is the reason for his announcement, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, since I have noticed some disdain, whether anyone likes it or not. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18719	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 106(1) – the proposed authority may speak about what is on the agenda. So the theme of this agenda is very clear, but not about things that really don't concern this agenda. The authorising officer mentioned on several occasions and debts from Belgrade's capital, which is not about today's agenda theme, although I am very glad that the SNS is here five years after the authorities took over, admitted that Belgrade is in charge of 410m euros by 2013, although the mayor claimed that over a billion euros were in charge of the city of Belgrade. On the other hand, there is also one general lack of understanding of the organs and institutions that are sitting here today and the people who represent them. The Serbian advanced party is disturbed by the authorities and institutions, and then exclusively defends those sitting at their helm. I think it's inappropriate and that as chairman, you have to act and warn an authorised promoter in the coming period.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18720	Thank you. In order not to translate that into a replica right now, I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? (Balsa Bozovic: Yes. All right. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18721	Article 103(8) So, like this, this was an obvious replica in an attempt to advertise the Rules of Procedure, so obvious that I don't know what else was supposed to happen so that someone would make it clear, so I am asking you, Mr. Chairman, to apply the measure in line with attitude 8. that says that the time foreseen for discussion is then taken and that we apply it consistently. We have already taken up two time for further discussion by the SNS Group today, because the one who chaired at that time concluded that the advertising of the Rules of Procedure was used for replication, and it was much more benign than what happened a little earlier. If we did it then, I insist we do it now. As we do now, let's apply it further. As much as you have applied or you will apply to whoever did it for a moment, so much so that you can apply to me, freely, because something like this, if established as a rule, goes beyond our session. So, if someone here is talking about the debts of the capital, I have every right here to say that they're telling the truth with the same basis that he did it with. What you do there, do to me, too. That the fact that 470 million debt left behind is the fact that in Paracina, their representatives force investors to blackmail people and hold them in their hands, and that's the fact. Whatever you apply to me, apply on the other side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18722	Thank you very much. Okay, okay, I've released a little discussion, an explanation, and I think it's good and healing for parliament. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18723	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, this is the seventh time I've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I finally got the right and thank you for showing me that mercy. I'm advocating article 27 and a member of 108 who's talking about the order of the session being taken care of by you. A member of the 103rd was advertised by his colleague Orlic. I'm okay with those two minutes being taken away. You have allowed your colleague Bozovic to take the lead in the session, that he is seducing some order here and that he is talking about something that is not an integral part of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I believe he was struck by some previous discussion. I like your tolerance, but in the future, I advise you to take the measure that your colleague Orlic has proposed. With that in mind, I believe it hurt Mr Bozovic that there is no more than 2% of the Ada bridge, which cost 500m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18724	Thank you. Here, don't you, please, now let's continue with the replicas and the bickering. We're looking at everyone who's presidencies that we have the same arches for everyone. Do you want the National Assembly to declare...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18725	I'm not asking you to vote on that. Hold on. I'm not asking to be voted on and I appreciate your concern about their millions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18726	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18727	Thank you, Chairman. Today, it was very difficult to listen to representatives of the previous, or former DS-led, authorities also mention "Fiat", as they mention workers' rights, as they mention all the instructions as the negative sides of this government. So it seems like in that secret contract with the "Fiato", wrapped in a secret veil, there was some catastrophic mistake that they are now trying to transfer to someone else at the last minute. Of course it won't work. This government will try to resolve any misunderstanding successfully, and we will know what kind of contract it is next year and they will, of course, talk about it. The previous government, just once again to remind citizens, almost devastated state property with its disastrous privatisations, fired about half a million workers and certainly left so many people without bread, which are members of the families of these workers. The money they took from these privatisations went to current costs, probably one piece in the pockets of individuals, but certainly there were no healthy investments, certainly no thought was given to what would happen the moment that that money was spent. That's how these secret contracts were created, and one of them is this secret contract with the Fiat, which, these days, has now successfully solved the problem that has arisen. Why are their secret contracts? This, as I said, will give us an explanation next year, but in any case it should be noted once again that in 2012, they left a catastrophic state in the budget, over 15 billion public debt, about 10.6 billion euros in debt with which the SNS, when it took over power with its coalition partners, faced and the fact was that it was difficult to recover such a budget and bring it into this situation where it is today. Of course, it's not easy, the way and the speed that they've led to the edge, to the collapse, to the bankruptcy of this country, to return uphill and of course it's going much harder. The truth is of course, as far as domestic violence is concerned, which mentions the previous party these days. I am sorry that this is used for cheap political points, but it is very hypocritical to accuse someone and call on responsibility for individual cases of someone who has fought for women's rights and children's rights, and for gender equality, and all of us, especially here in the Assembly, have to admit it, and so are Aleksandar Vukic and Nebojsa Stefanovic, whose support is formed the Women's Parliamentary Network, which all rises when they leave the Assembly and here in the Assembly, of course. It was formed thanks to their great support. Until then, they had a great desire, but they didn't make it happen. Of course, all those laws that followed and the fight against domestic violence and everything else that goes in favor of women and children. Why are we talking about this today? Because this government doesn't want to put anything under the carpet. Because in any case, it's said in a transparent manner. Because we want these bad, scary examples never to happen again. The country introduced the previous government and the one headed by Ana Brnabic, as well as the previous one headed by Aleksandra Vukic, zero tolerance for domestic violence. Zero tolerance for corruption is also introduced. I'm just going to remind the previous authorities, which are funny, probably, that the largest number of abuses of official positions was just in their time. In their time, MPs and mayors joined together, and that was absolutely normal for them. It was an enormous rate of corruption and was in the judiciary and local self-government. This government has passed many laws to fight. Of course, it is not as successful as we all wanted, but certainly there are steps, many laws, public procurement laws, laws on conflict of interest, the financing of political parties, and it should be mentioned that Serbia is one of four countries today in Europe that has an Alert Protection Act. Of course, we have prepared, or announced, a law on the origin of the property. No one ever wanted to face this law before. Today we're talking about candidates for independent state bodies, and that's why this whole story is about everything. That means that candidates can't be, like we said, government, but they can't be opposition creditors either. We cannot say that the Protector of the citizens during the previous period, i.e. in two terms, was not an opposition trustee. We have heard according to the Constitution and according to the Law on the Protector of Citizens who are his responsibilities and who are his powers, so I will not mention them, but I can't help but mention that the previous Simeon is more understood in politics, slightly less in sport, but it seems to be least understood in the protection of human rights. This was recognised by the citizens, the MPs recognized it, so we all reacted in the second term because of these political activities, because the previous Citizens' Protector was involved in politics, and the citizens paid about 3,000 euros and his campaign until he resigned. Formerly false Citizens' Protector Sasa Jankovic was in the post in 2007. So, two full terms. It's 10 years until his resignation. In those 10 years, Serbia's citizens spent about a million and 500 thousand dinars each month for his work and the work of his assistants. I think citizens are the most competent to say how they really felt about protection and how they felt about protecting their rights by the former Protector of Citizens. I would also like to point out that he was the Protector of the Citizens during the Dossovian government, so he did not then protect the citizens from stealing, from these catastrophic privatisations, so we did not expect him to react now to opposition parties. So, what's very important is that the Citizens' Protector should not have double arches, as he had before, and he also violated the Constitution himself, he violated the laws of Serbia and just as I mentioned, by political involvement while his term was over and for that mandate he was well paid. He was able to disprove, to humiliate this institution and what will be the first task of future Citizens' Protector, or candidate for the time being, Zoran Pasalic, will above all be to restore citizens' confidence in this institution. What we have seen, tomorrow's headline "NIN" definitely shows that even in other independent institutions we are not exactly at an envious level, so here today we are sending a message from the National Assembly that all future candidates and current candidates are in independent state bodies, to review their independence, to review the knowledge of the work of the state authorities, to question really how much they work in the general interest of citizens and how ready they are to resist political influences. I believe that in the future, the work of the state authorities will be far higher and in this respect we will provide support to the candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18728	Thank you. My colleague Bozovic, on what basis did you contact him? (Balsa Bozovic: Replica, headed by DS. No, she didn't mention a party at all. I listened very closely. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18729	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've heard a lot today from representatives of the ruling coalition. At least we are, I have to find out about the proposals themselves, about what the subject of the agenda is, and I have to say that we've practically got confirmation that they don't really understand what they mean and what the function we're choosing today is. You know, it's not enough to Google about the Twin and know when this institution was created and where it's designed to understand the essence, and you obviously don't understand. When there is a basis for parliamentary democracy, a division of powers into executive, legislative and judicial, then there should be a balance between the three branches of government. They need to be controlled. There is a huge disproportionateity in Serbia, and there is absolute domination of the executive branch of government over the other two. The essence of the Simeon institution is to be an additional guarantee that citizens' rights will be realised and an additional guarantee that someone will control the executive power. There are already mechanisms, but when these mechanisms don't work then you need to get practically on the Citizens' Protector scene. Now, can the executive power, the regime control itself? Well, of course he can't, and that's why, if you understood parliamentary democracy, you wouldn't be able to suggest the Guardian of Citizens as a regime. Any wise authority would leave the opposition to propose it, so, if it's right, so much better by the state. If he's not doing his job well, well, he's doing so much better by the state, because you would show that you have possibly some incompetent opposition, but you don't understand that. Today we listened persistently and persistently about Sasha Jankovic. Sashi Jankovic, chosen by most SNS. You're attacking yourself. You're talking about your disastrously bad human policy. They chose Sasa Jankovic, talked about him best, last year for two days, then you come and you say a criminal, and you say a spy, and you say a foreign agent, and you say a murderer. If so, if he was taking as we heard earlier, 3,000 euros a month for his salary, then a million and a half for his cabinet, and he had blinkers and rotations, how did the individuals say, well, who made it possible for him? The minister of police or someone from the opposition? Who did he choose? You chose him. Just like you chose Radulovic. Well, after that you say, a thief, a criminal, a bankruptcy manager. You have a problem with yourself. As you have forced some lists here into the Assembly by order of the US ambassador and it is recognised by your head of the SNS parliamentary group, but what have you been doing? And there's a similar situation with this. And, these people, they may be proposed according to the law, it may be legal, but will they have legitimacy? He won't. I'll go from case to case. If we're talking about this, here, for example, to get away from it, the proposal of a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee suggested. Who? President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic. And, says the following -- I propose Dr Milos Stankovic as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. The proposed candidate fulfils the law of the prescribed conditions, and I am convinced that he has the necessary professional and personal qualities. Who is this gentleman? Here, if we go back a month, two back to the presidential election, so let's look at the list of public figures signed by the so-called. The appeal for a better Serbia because we want Serbia to move forward rather than change, the people who supported Alexander Vukic, who entered the political race, politically engaged on the 51st side, did not matter much more, if in the fifth, sixth, the function would probably be better. On page 51, Dr. Milos Stankovic. The same gentleman, a month later Vukic inaugurated, took an oath and returned the favor. Is this legal? Maybe it is. Is it legitimate? I'm sure he didn't. So, how many of those are there? Other institutions and other institutions' proposals are farces. She was told who to propose. Here, there's Mr. Sretenovic. What does Mr. Sretenovic have to do with a thirty-three-year-old Miss from Nis? There's nothing. Don't you work together somewhere? You're not. You were told to propose. I would understand that you have proposed a prominent member of the DRI, to say that is a man of integrity, of expertise, of good, of strength and of courage and of life experience to oppose. You have admitted yourself, say certain heads of parliament groups – we will vote, although we do not know anything about the candidate, but says – this is the coalition partner SNS has proposed, and that is, the distribution of prey. Well, something went to PUPS, so we have a 73-year-old candidate. Eight years ago he retired. We have other candidates with 33 years of life, with little life experience, is that the best that Serbia has to offer at this point you didn't have anyone working? You didn't? Well, isn't that supposed to be a man of adulthood with life experience, with integrity that will be able to perform this function? It is clear that these people will be at the service of the regime, and specifically for Mr Milos Stankovic that there is little honor, so he would resign himself after this. He can't be politically involved, he can't support the president publicly, so the president can't wait a month later, where he'll propose him to a post. In a civilized world, it's just not possible. Now, you've been talking here and the Chinese president and you're welcome, that's not the question. The question is, will this Citizens' Protector have the courage to oppose the regime to protect citizens' rights tomorrow? Here, Mr. Nejko Jovanovic said - there is no Citizen's Protector of anything to do with KIM, and why is there no Serbian citizens living there? What do you mean, it's gone? What does he have, if he doesn't, to whom today's human rights are more endangered than they are? Of course there is. Do they enjoy rights enjoyed by Serbian citizens living in central Serbia's territory? They're not enjoying themselves. Will the Citizens' Protector say – the Brussels Agreement violates their rights, they are deprived of their civil rights? If the Constitutional Court didn't want to plead, would they have the right? Will they have courage, strength, energy? So, don't let those who voted twice for Sasa Jankovic, it's the SPS, 2007 and 2012, or those who voted for him in 2012, which is the entire ruling coalition today, to talk about him -- not good. They warn, they say – don't let the one they choose run for five years. Why don't you run for office because according to the Constitution or by law, his civil rights are suspended, so he can't run anymore? Finish the man's post so he can do whatever he wants. If Sasa Jankovic violated the Constitution and the laws, why didn't you resolve it? You have that option. Why didn't you do it? Here, Marijan Risticevic was in favour, but none of you were, but you allowed him to violate the Constitution and the laws of this country, and now you, as my God, have come, are called upon to criticize someone. You're not. What they did to yellow, it's what SNS does today, there's no principle of difference between you. As you raised both together, so, in 2012, hand for Sasha Jankovic, so you will do it for someone else. You say then, Veroljub Arsic said that brilliant thought, says – The Anti-Corruption Agency, however, is usually a regulatory body, is neither independent nor independent. Whomever she says is independent, then she submits a report to the National Assembly. Just because he's reporting doesn't mean he's not an independent organ. If it is, why is it in the law? Then change the law, break it. Write it down, it's some regulatory body, so completely irrelevant, and then call it that. If you, who are part of the ruling coalition, treat the state institutions in this way, it is a fundamental indication that neither this additional instrument that should be represented by the Guardian of Citizens can help. One last question, did you get a good look at the biography of these candidates? Don't let in a month, two, three be criminals again, thieves, and foreign agents, or maybe one of them caressed someone's head.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18730	Thank you, colleague Sarovic. Replica, Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18731	If it wasn't three or four times SNS this or that, it's no less. I understand that someone has to mention SNS when there are reasons for it like to feel important or like to take out the stains. I consider it an excellent example of the extraction of political stains after the obvious dissatisfaction with the rule of his own candidate for the Protector of Citizens before the Assembly Committee, what just happened. It is clear to me that someone has so strong words and so much bile towards Sasa Jankovic, precisely because his own candidate for the Protector of Citizens says, expressed his intention to maintain a sort of continuity with Sasa Jankovic, right? Was this candidate said – I have done everything in my life, that is, in line with Sasha Jankovic's conclusions. Now, when something like that allows itself a representative of a certain parliamentary group, then it's normal that this group is trying to do anything to just mistake that impression, so here it's talking about the SNS at long and wide, what continuity with Sasa Jankovic we don't want, and they obviously want to, but they would like to not know about it. We don't want continuity in dealing with the politics of someone who doesn't have the right to do it, he has no right under the law. It is not at all a question of whether anyone will deal with it when his term expires, while at the post of Citizens' Protector, he must not, and Sasa Jankovic did, anyway and confessed, admitted to the press, there is a recording, while he was in the seat of the Citizens' Protector. That's what those who mention SNS here, or their candidate, would do right now, can't. Another thing, continuity with what? By avoiding what his basic job is, with the protection of citizens' rights, because Sasa Jankovic also, on the same show, told the same journalist at the same time – I rarely receive citizens. Now he'd like to do that to whoever's here is loud, or his candidate. Once again, he can't. So now the institution will function properly, and it will not work as Sasa Jankovic did and that someone's candidates would. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18732	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18733	Mr. Marinkovic, you have violated Article 104. Article 104 gives the right to a replica, but gives it away if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insolently expressing himself about the MP. I didn't mention Mr. Orlic, nor did I make an offensive statement about him. I mentioned the SNS, but I was saying what was the fact that they voted for Sasha Jankovic, is that offensive? Are you ashamed of that? And you should be ashamed, but that's what you've been doing. So there was no basis for replication. Article 104's stance – if offensive expressions refer to the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has on behalf of the parliamentary group the right to reply. Here he is, alive and well, Mr. Martinovic, why didn't he answer? So, by two grounds, you violated the Rules of Procedure. That you would collectively erase from the memory of Serbian citizens that Sasa Jankovic is not only a DS candidate, he has performed his post for the last five years thanks to the support of you who had the majority, who won the Serbian citizens' trust.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18734	Thank you. Now I will answer you, thank you for pointing to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but Mr. Martinovic, therefore in accordance with Article 104, has left his deputy to answer when it comes to... Nemanja Sarovic: What did I say offensively? You mentioned SNS. (I Nemanja Sarovic: So, just mentioning the party is an insult? No, in a negative context. Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18735	Since only mentioning SNS is offensive, I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18736	Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. ) (Nedjo Jovanovic: Rules of Procedure. We'll give Mr. Sretenovic our word. Here you go. Stay logged in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18737	Thank you, Vice President. Just to deny Mr. Sarovic, to say that the DRI is a completely independent and independent body, that the audit as an institution is managed by the DRI Council, as the highest authority and in accordance with the powers of the DRI and its employees cannot be anywhere in the board of directors, for these reasons we could not propose, but we have proposed candidate Jelena Stankovic who meets all the conditions to be our representative at the Anti-Corruption Agency. Appreciating its personal and professional properties, its work so far in the scientific field it deals with, and deals with audits, accounting and finance. I know her from the Goldibor counseling, and that's it. Just to deny that no one has submitted a proposal to the DRI, but the DRI Council has assessed it. I have to deny you, too, that a completely independent institution and council have decided to run for office. Nemanja Sarovic: Replica, he misread me. He said I made a lie. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18738	Please, you have no right to a replica. No, Mr. Sretenovic didn't put it that way. So he's cleared up everything about this question of yours. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18739	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107 has been injured. The dignity of the National Assembly has been compromised because we have said for a little while that Martinovic is the one who decides who will speak when it comes to replication and mentioning the largest parliamentary club. So either you run this session or you run Martinovic, or on the third hand you might ask Mr. Orlic to take over Martinovic and then he'll be head of the Parliament Club...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18740	Please, here, let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18741	You can't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18742	So, I just made it clear according to the statement of violation of the Rules of Procedure by fellow counterpart Nemanje Sarovic fully in line with the Rules of Procedure. The man pleaded, I asked, I did everything in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so there's no need for us to move on and mention any of our colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18743	It's not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18744	Let's move on, the word has Nedjo Jovanovic, right on the line. Nemanja Sarovic: Rules of Procedure. ) I apologize to my colleague Jovanovic, he has the word Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18745	Article 104 says that if the speaker at the National Assembly misreads the presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates has the right to reply. Mr. Sretenović or anyone else, he won't, I think he was suspicious of talking about me and talking to me and looking at me and saying that I made the wrong point. So, first of all in the material here, Mr. Sretenovic, it wasn't the Council that suggested it was the President of the Council, you yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18746	My colleague, please speak to me personally, do not speak to your colleague, Sretenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18747	That suits Mr. Sretenovic to be the center of attention, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-19-0.u18748	I don't want to discuss it with you. So you pointed out a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and now I'm going to give you an explanation. Thank you. So, you've had as part of your presentation of questions. Mr. Sretenovic answered. Answered, tried to answer all those questions. Of course, I've estimated that it's not absolutely in a negative context, and I've estimated that there's no reason or possibility for replication on your part. (Nemnja Sarovic: To vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, they'll vote on it. Now I'm going to set a break of one minute. [[After a break.]] After the debate, I'd like to inform you that we will continue the session tomorrow, starting at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
