ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26148	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 100 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Today we have on the agenda a request for information and explanations on the basis of Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger, Professor Vojislav Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26149	Gentlemen, I ask the question to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic -- as long as Prime Minister Brnabic will suffer in the government of Minister Zoran Mihajlovic, who is constantly raving within both the government and the public spreading disturbing news, and who undermines all that is in Serbia's interest, and weighs the interests of Serbian enemies? The last thing that happened, Zorana Mihajlovic held a meeting with representatives of the railway union on October 19th and told them about an announced increase in public sector employees' earnings that the workers of the railway would be excluded, as it does not treat the railway as a public enterprise, she treats as a stock company. There is no difference in the status of the Railways, the real difference, whether it is a company or a public company if the state is 100% owner of a company. No one has the right to single out railway workers from an increase in income, from an increase in earnings, especially since their revenues have not increased in five years. When a decision was made to cut wages in the public sector, they too were covered by that decision. That nothing else Zorana Mihajlovic did wrong while the minister is in this government, this is enough reason for her shift. She's simply intolerable at the post of minister. Whatever he grabbed with his own hand, if he had caught a green pine, he would have dried green. You see, Zorana Mihajlovic was a minister at a time when the railways were transformed into three action societies. Why was that done? Of course, she expects at least some part of the railroad to be sold, so she can fit in nicely. Otherwise, as to how the railway works, they should be unique. Infrastructure, passenger transport and cargo carriage, i.e. goods transport, there is a principled, fundamental difference cannot be made. Everywhere in Europe, railways are in state property, even if they are stock companies, the state has a convincing majority of actions in its possession. In Germany, I guess, 76%, in France something like that. Nowhere in Europe railways can be a private company, they can't survive, because railways are like those disabled crutches all over the economy and good businesses and bad businesses. No state is able to get rid of the railways, although the railways, in principle, do not make any profit. They can bring profits from time to time, but in system conditions, they don't actually make profits. Only in America there are private railways, because America where the railways can't function as a private company, simply abolishing, it doesn't care about that. All over Europe, he takes care of the railways. No state has been able to give up the railways and none has been able to privatise those railways. The way in which Zorana Mihajlovic treats workers, according to the unions, is simply as if she wants to irritate them, go on strike, go on riots, etc. Who can normally think of raising wages in the public sector, and that the railways are being bypassed, especially since the railways were in a certain way denied, neglected, suppressed and always delayed their earnings by average in other public enterprises.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26150	Thank you, Dr. Seselj. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26151	Thank you. My first question goes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Mr. Ivica Dacic's portfolio, which concerns the latest, so only one in a series of statements that are senior US representatives, senators, congressmen and diplomats, especially in Pristina, but also elsewhere, referred to Kosovo and in every possible way, and directly and indirectly, supporting this independence, and what more, asking Serbia, or Belgrade, to no longer oppose that independence. The last in a series of such statements is this American congressman, Elliot Engel, as early as yesterday, in Pristina, where he not only repeated his views, but sought, or supported Ramush Haradinaj, president of the so-called. Kosovo's elected government, by the way, is told by the Serbian list's MPs that the US is also involved in the Brussels dialogue. The Brussels dialogue should also be timed and should result in all the things both Pristina and Berlin and Washington and Brussels think it should be the finals of the Brussels dialogue. So, a legally binding agreement, a chair for Kosovo to the UN, and an end to opposition, that is, what they see, Belgrade's obstruction of Kosovo's integration into international organisations. There have also been difficult words at the expense of Russia and Serbia, which is also the already mandatory repertoire of senior US representatives lately, and not just lately. So my question is: is it ever and will the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in view of this statement, send any note, any protest, a statement at the mildest or slightly less, meaning in this repertoire, the diplomatic measures available, whether any of these will be done or not? And, more specifically, the second question -- is in the past, I've been speaking in the last four or five years, any kind of demarcation by our foreign ministry, directed to an American colleague, or is that kind of anger and anger reserved, and the protest, I'd say justifiable protest, reserved for neighbors only, and that's just certain neighbors? Today, we had an example with Ali Izetbegovic, where the National Security Council is meeting to respond to a newspaper statement and, by the way, a hypothetical statement, an inappropriate, inappropriate, incomparable, all agreed, it should be condemned, but one of the three members of the Bosnian, or BiH presidency, who can't decide anything on its own anyway. So, I am in favour of being consistent and that if we react and protest, and that we should react and protest measured, culturally, but holding on to ourselves, then be principled and respond to unacceptable statements, both those big and those small and both those we fear or who are currently afraid of you, and those who serve as targets to demonstrate cheap and optional patriotism, one part of our government, and only if necessary. Second question, and I have to finish there, but last time I didn't make it, so I'm past this from last week, but just to make it concrete. It also went to the address of the ministry of traffic, i.e. the Ministry of Transport. It was about the already famous, I would say, the infamous Corridor or the Nis-Medarre-Pristina highway, which, I would say, was launched at the Berlin Summit, by Eddie Rama and Alexander Vukic, the highway for which experts, I am not speaking by heart now, the experts I spoke to, say that there is no or no economic justification, and the political and geopolitical consequences that we are not talking about. In particular, the team before we reregistered deaths during the previous days and weeks, accidents on unfinished highways through Serbia, which should have been completed long ago. My question and suggestion is – why does all the strength, all the resources, all the energy, finally not get into the solution and finally end really, not the television ending of Corridor 10 and 11? Let's do it for starters, finally have a highway to Cačka and finally have a way to the Macedonian border, real and full scope, and then think about all the other projects. As it works, it acts as an ad hoc, a political project and it is not accidentally called that it is in some way that Serbia is participating in the construction of a highway for large Albania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26152	Thank you, colleague Vukadinovic. The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26153	Thank you, Vice President. First of all, I refer my question to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, and as regards the Restitution Act, I am asking – when will the parliamentary procedure be where the amendment of the Property Return Act will arrive, because 100,000 citizens are waiting for the Agency for Restitution to resolve their cases and will the law provide for a substitution? The second question is asked by Finance Minister Dusan Vujovic, which concerns the VAT law. Namely, domestic entrepreneurs who are focused on exporting their products and goods submit documentation for reporting VAT every month, up to 15 in the month. Since VAT is not shown on export, but every month at tax, the state is obliged to return VAT to them, because they buy raw materials mainly on the domestic market for that VAT return money, on which VAT is calculated, and the final product is placed on export, where VAT is not charged. The State is obliged to return VAT entrepreneurs from the point of sale of tax documents, under the VAT Act, within 45 days, meaning from the 15th time when they hand it over, as well as any entrepreneur, where the situation is reversed, must return VAT within a certain legal period, because if it does not do so, it violates the law. The state violates the law because I have checked and received some information from citizens, that even three, four months, and sometimes half a year late with the return of VAT, which creates a problem with these entrepreneurs. In case an entrepreneur has to pay VAT, the state is very effective, he has to pay VAT within 45 days, and VAT returns are waiting for up to half a year. The question of Minister Vujovic – why does the Ministry of Finance not respect the VAT Act and not return VAT to entrepreneurs within the legal deadline of 45 days? Another question I ask Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, which refers to the release of payment in preschool institutions – why can municipalities determine whether a third child and all other children will stay free of charge in kindergartens or not? Why are children discriminated against, if they live in more underdeveloped municipalities, parents have to pay a full price? I received a question from my friends living in the municipality of Kula, because the municipal council in early September or late August decided that each third child and the next child in a row, now pays 50% of the price of the stay, and so far it has been free. So I ask Minister Djukić Dejanovic – why is this different in every municipality? Minister Mladen Sarčević and Jasmine Milosevic from the Agency for Transport Security ask – what happens to school buses? We know that there are increased bus driver controls carrying children and students on tours, but I ask who controls and how are the buses carrying the students from place to place during the school year? I come from a cool community where buses are very old. The municipality hired a private company carrying students, but the students report and I have information that the buses are very old, that they're broken down, that they just don't arrive in time for lessons, that they've even burned the buses, so they're traveling with them, and I don't know what. So I'm asking, who controls those buses and does these technical checks maybe need to be introduced every two months or half a year, because children's safety is really compromised? One last question, I ask Minister Zlatibor Loncar, and it concerns free preventions of citizens who are truly commendable and who have succeeded, but I think they are again discriminated against citizens living in villages, because they simply cannot make it to their first clinical center or General Hospital. First of all, they're far away, so maybe there's a way to organize that transport because they can't do those free preventive checks, so I'm asking if something's going to happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26154	Thank you, colleague Papuga. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26155	Thank you, Vice President. I have a few questions for different officials and authorities, and everything is referred to the scandalous decision of the Zrenjanin City Assembly to assign 2,500 of the best agricultural land in state property in the city of Zrenjanin without bidding, without rules, without any conditions and, I would say without any honor, to the private company "Tenis" and two other domestic companies, one of which is probably, not likely, but by coincidence, precisely owned by one of the board members of the ruling coalition, Aleksandar Vukic – Serbia wins in Zrenjanin. It's about Councilman Zeljko Malusic. My first question in this regard is going precisely to the Anti-Corruption Agency, because whoever stayed in that agency until the SNS completely broke up, does he know that one of the companies that got this job in the Zrenjanin City Assembly is owned by the board of the ruling coalition, who himself participated in the decision to assign state agricultural land to him and his firm? Did he perhaps transfer ownership rights in that company to a third party, or is it still owned by it, and does the Anti-Corruption Agency consider that there is a basis for abuse of position or conflict of interest, since it is only a founding firm that was founded just days before a public call on conditions for the exercise of the lease rights based on investments? For those citizens who do not understand, the right to rent agricultural land was introduced in 2015 by a shameful, corrupt, shameless Law on Agricultural Land, which allowed a third of the land in each municipality in Serbia, the Ministry of Agriculture to be awarded to a free-choice economy without being able to compete at the same time, cannot bid and cannot bid on farmers. The question to Minister Nedimovic – does he know that farmers, who have till now handled this land, remain only as opportunities or now work as landkeepers who have assigned "Tenis" and to their boardman, or stop dealing with agriculture and thus, after generations of farming in their families, lose any jobs? Does Minister Nedimovic know that what SNS gives to its business partners is not theirs, that the country of the pair in Vojvodina has taken from the swamps to make today one of the most fertile land in Europe and that the SNS without criteria, without rules, without conditions and without the possibility of other competitors now bowing to their business partners? How many such countries are in Vojvodina, let Minister Nedimovic say, which he will give to his committees, his officials, his brothers, his best men, his business partners, and whom the country is already free of charge. Is he aware of the damage he has done to the paors he leaves with no resources to work and no way to support himself and make money for his life? So, gentlemen of the SNS, giving your business partners isn't yours. It's not the land of your tycoons, it's not the land of your councilors, it's not the land of your officials, it's the state agricultural land that the Duke's pairs have taken from the swamps, generations have taken from the swamps just so you can distribute it. Of course, you will all be responsible for this once you leave the government, and until then all the couples will have DS support to prevent you from dividing what is most valuable to Vojvodina and what Serbia has, which is our agricultural land.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26156	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. Mr. Ivan Kostic has the word. Here you go, colleague Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26157	Dear citizens of Serbia, we are asking the question of the Minister of Education and the Minister of Culture and Information, how do you imagine to reduce peer violence in Serbian schools until you stop realising programs on television that are full of violence and proscration? When will the party TV SNS, Pink TV, be taken away from the national frequency due to the propaganda of the ruling party and the broadcasting of immoral reality shows? The second question of the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Agriculture, how did you allow the Zrenjanin City Assembly to vote to award the German company "Tenis" the lease of 2,500 hectares of state agricultural land? Why is our country given to foreigners and how do domestic farmers survive in their own country? Otherwise, Tennis starts processing the country in 2019 and 2020, and by then they will rent the country to domestic farmers. The third question to the Prime Minister, when will Mira Petrovic, who, three months ago, ended his term as acting director of Post, was appointed as secretary of Milan Krkobbiæ for the division of party prey? Who allowed the suspensions for 47 “Post” unions on strike and who highlighted the justified demands that Mira Petrovic must be removed? Serbia's Dvora Movement supports the justified requirements of Serbia's Independent Posting Union. The fourth question to Serbian President Alexander Vucic, who is your bigger friend, Tony Blair, Bill Clinton, Gerhard Schroeder, Jo Biden, Edi Rama, Hashim Thaci, Ramush Haradinaj or George Soros? The bigger a war criminal and the enemy of Serbia, the better a friend to Vukic. That's what you can tell from the work you've done so far. What did you discuss with the vice president of the Open Society Fund, the son of George Soros? Isn't that the same Soros, who, according to frequent writing of your party newspaper "Informer", planned to tear down Serbia? Does this mean that Aleksandar Vukic, along with the Soros family, is planning to destroy Serbia? Did we finally find out the real truth, that Alexander Vukic is actually that foreign mercenary Sorosa, who writes about "Informer"? What Alexander Vukic was talking about with NATO Secretary General... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26158	I'm sorry. I'm just gonna read you something. I'm sorry to interrupt. So, you can ask ministers, officials, about issues from the framework of the rights and duties of these officials and their jurisdiction. You're talking about some imaginary stuff. Please, only within that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26159	A special question for Aleksandar Vukic, why did he single out the opinion of Vladan Kutlesic, who suggests a union of two independent states in Serbia and Kosovo, of all the views of the university on Kosovo and Metohija? Is that, then, a proposal that Vukic also advocates becoming independent of Kosovo? President of the National Assembly – when will Kosovo and Metohija come to the agenda of the National Assembly? The dialogue on Kosovo and Metohija, recently launched in an unusually high hurry by the president of Serbia, is considered a lie and we consider it an attempt to conceal the intention of the current authorities to sign in 2018 a binding document on the comprehensive normalisation of relations with so-called. An independent Kosovo. The signing of such a document in Brussels is a condition on Serbia's further path to the EU and means an agreement between the two independent states, paving the way for Kosovo's false state to join the UN. We are confident that in this imposed, false dialogue we should not participate in and thus support the regime that, for the sake of Serbia's extremely uncertain and harmful entry into the EU and the preservation of personal authority, Kosovo and Metohija are sacrificed. It is particularly symptomatic that the foreign minister has not called on this issue. Therefore, I ask both the President of Serbia and the Prime Minister and the President of the Assembly – when will the dialogue on Kosovo and Metohija be on the agenda of the National Assembly? Will any further initiative or decision by Serbia's state summit on Kosovo and Metohija be put to the referendum because people's opinion must be heard? We are using the opportunity to call on the president of Serbia and the Working Group of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who are engaged in a false dialogue on Kosovo and Metohija, for direct face-to-face at RTS or at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If they avoid this confrontation, it will be another proof that imposing dialogue is a pure lie. We did not get an answer from the president of the Maya Gojkovic Assembly on the question we asked last time – why are the three MPs of the Dvora expelled from the National Assembly session for 20 days for asking parliamentary questions? Is that not allowed to say anything in the National Assembly about corruption and crime at the top of Vucic's government? It has been almost a month since the president of the Dveri parliamentary group, Bosko Obradovic, was banned from entering the assembly hall and attending the sessions. Is it forbidden to speak of this in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26160	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26161	Thank you. The first question is for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ana Brnabic. Today is November 21st, exactly three weeks after the deadline for the government to deliver the budget for next year to the National Assembly. The budget calendar is defined in Article 31. The law on the budgetary system also requires that the Government deliver the draft budget to the National Assembly by 1 November and that the National Assembly adopt the budget by 15 December. Three weeks you stole from the MPs to study a document that has over 1,000 pages. When will this document finally arrive at the Assembly? Will the MPs have enough time to study such extensive matter in quality, so that they can take part in the budget debate informedly? So, finally the question – why is the draft budget even late? The second question is for the President of the Republic. This is the 33rd time we've asked him a question. We have not received any answers to the previous 32 questions. The first question is, why don't we get an answer and why does the President of the Republic break the law, because he is obliged to answer our questions to the National Assembly within 15 days, in writing? The first question is when will he finally stop breaking the Constitution and resign as SNS president, so that he can finally be president of all citizens, not just those who are supporters and SNS voters? The second question is whether the coalition with Ramush Haradinaj in Kosovo we are, in fact, preparing the ground to throw out the preamble on Kosovo and Metohija from our Constitution and to recognise Kosovo's independence? The next series of questions is for National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic. This is the 26th time we ask the questions from this pay phone Maja Gojkovic. The previous 25 questions have not been answered, although the speaker of the Assembly is legally obliged to answer our questions in writing within 15 days. The first question for President Gojkovic – why is he persistently ignoring us and why is he not answering these questions? The second question – when will it finally begin to hold regular sessions of the College, would this Assembly not start doing its job properly, in the interest of the citizens who elected us in this Assembly? I'll remind you that in this year and a half, as many congregations as work, we've had barely two sessions of the College. Colleges are supposed to be held on a Sunday basis. Third question for the chairman Gojkovic – when will he create an annual work plan? We've been working for a year and a half without a plan, completely versed. Today, we do not know what laws will be on the agenda of next week's assembly session. Citizens expect us to defend their interests informedly in the debate. If we don't have a plan of work and we don't know when the laws come to the Assembly's agenda, we are first and foremost betraying the citizens of Serbia and their interests. When are we finally gonna get a work plan? The final question – when will the chairman, Gojkovic, finally put a request on the Parliament's agenda for her shift, as she promised to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26162	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26163	Thank you. In the beginning, I will repeat two of the three questions asked by the Prime Minister, Ani Brnabic, on October 12th, since despite my obligation to answer within 15 days, she did not favour the answer. I have to point out that she's the only one who didn't do it, because all the other ministers and institutions I've given the question to at the time have provided answers, whatever those answers are. With this kind of behavior, the Prime Minister unfortunately just confirmed my findings a month ago when she answered the questions of the MPs in this high House, that unfortunately she had taken the bad manners of her predecessor. Using the words she uses, that kind of behavior is not OK at all. Of the three questions I have asked, today I will leave out what I have forgotten about so far, to be mild, diplomatic awkwardness that she has shown to the announcements, and then by giving up the letter to the EU institutions regarding the different approach of these countries to the issues of Catalonia and Kosovo, but I will repeat the remaining two issues. I am asked to be provided with the number of cancelled or delayed visits to the Republic of France during a three-month ban on the travel of civil servants to this country, and to reply whether all ministries have complied with those prohibitions, and to provide me with the number of government conclusions on the basis of which these visits are prohibited, since there is a reasonable doubt that such a decision has not been made by the Government. The absence of an answer to this question can only be interpreted as a confirmation that such a decision has not been adopted by the government, i.e. that this measure was only one in a number of ways to distract the public in Serbia, as we now have the case with a tenently conveyed statement by Bakir Izetbegovic, from the formal non-existent agency Tanjug on Kosovo's recognition. Only a few months after the ban was passed because the French court released Ramush Haradinaj, authorities in Belgrade indirectly, via the Serbian list, supported his election as president of the Kosovo government. I repeat the second question of the Prime Minister, Mrs. Brnabic. As part of the periodical rise in tensions with the Republic of Croatia, Defence Minister Aleksandar Vulin attended the newly elected bishop of the Dalmatian Nikodima in the Krk monastery on October 1st. He, previously accompanied by military envoys in the Republic of Croatia, landed at Zemunik Airport. I will remind you that Zemunik Airport was a military airport that used JNA during the war in Croatia, or siege of Zadar. Therefore, my question to the Prime Minister – in what capacity did Minister Vulin attend the enthronement of the bishop Nicodemus, or did the government appoint him to represent her at the event? As with the previous question, the absence of an answer, I would say, has not been decided by the government that the event is represented by Minister Vulin. And the next question I'm giving to the Prime Minister. Given the conflict with European Integration Minister Mrs Joksimovic, on the importance of the number of open chapters with the EU, as well as on the prime minister's statement that regional stability is more practically important to her than the interests of the Republic of Serbia, does this mean that it advocates all Western Balkan countries joining the EU? Such an approach would practically mean that the speed of accession of the Republic of Serbia would depend on the weakest country in the region, which would further extend the process. In fact, even if we continue to open chapters at this pace, and we have nothing to talk about, except those chapters that are strictly technical, not only will Serbia not be able to become a member of the EU by 2025, which these days is being talked about in the media, but we will not even be able to open all the remaining chapters until then. It is truly strange that the declared most important strategic goal of the government is put in such a distant future. It can only testify to an dishonest approach to this process. In addition, conflicts between the Prime Minister and the minister show only the absence of its authority, i.e. to illustrate a situation that was difficult to imagine during its predecessor. So, in a situation where we probably won't have an early parliamentary election, but possibly a government reconstruction, I wouldn't be surprised if Mrs. Brnabic was reconstructed. I refer the next question to the Prime Minister, but also to the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior. What do they intend to do to finally resolve the US Embassy's burning issue in 2008, given that the postponement and resolution of this case has a negative impact on relations with this country? Namely, the State Department expressed disappointment with the Belgrade High Court verdict, which none of the defendants were convicted of jail time, regardless of the death of one person and the material damage was enormous. Is it possible that the reason he is stalled by resolving this case and because of which Serbia's international reputation has been further disrupted because parts of the former government, along with the leading representatives of the current government, organised the "Kosovo is Serbia" rally in 2008 after which these unsavourable events occurred? To conclude, the last question, which is more curiosity, I refer to the Minister for Labour. Is it true that this ministry adopted a protocol of conduct that regulates the rules of conduct, which should first and foremost emerge from home education? According to the media, this protocol, among other things, stipulates that mouths are being eaten, that it is forbidden to smell a set meal, milk, heartburn and burp, and that clothes must be clean, neat and ironed. Is it possible that this protocol has been introduced because of the personnel that have been admitted in the last five years, and especially in the last three, during his predecessor, the current defence minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26164	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. Alexander Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26165	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question has been addressed to the Anti-Corruption Agency, and that is -- were there any fakes of the 2012 DS Financial Report and why do the BIRN data differ from data on the DS site? Namely, there are only one data listed on BIRN's website publicly.rs, and on DS site, there are completely different data on the funders, on the amount of donations. Which one of these two figures is moderate? This is very important because these days, a terrible campaign is being campaigned and hashed on some members of the SNS, who apparently committed a terrible sin because they donated 19,000 dinars to the SNS. Nineteen thousand dinars are slightly more than 150 euros, though some have donated 40,000 dinars, but that is the largest amount, in full compliance with the law. We here have a list of DS donors who, during one year in 2012, donated to that party unrealistic amounts, totally incredible amounts. I will focus on the officials who led the Vračar municipality and the officials who led DS in Vračar, so the close associates of tycoon Dragan Gilas at the time, so we have that certain Bogdan Tatic, chairman of the DS Municipal Committee on Vračar, donated twice as many as 600,000 dinars of DS. However, the DS site is shown less, so that's where I'm asking the question of what's the difference. So more than a million dinars, 1.2 million dinars donated, as a tiny manager to JP "Vračar Business Area". Remember, the same public enterprise they destroyed, which they left in debt and minus hundreds of millions of dinars, so. We move on, Vladimir Medakovic, that in one drink gave 700,000, more than 700,000 dinars. If you are interested in the function, it is the director of the same company, JP "Vračar business space". So it is now clear that there is no coincidence that the "Vračar Business Area" officials who destroyed this company, which included among other things that criminally reported several days ago, are among the biggest donors of the DS. What's with the coincidence? Let's move on. A certain Zoran Dujak, he was probably on the Management Board of the Vračar Business Area, whether the president, whether or not a member, gave a little less than 600,000 dinars, so 592,000 dinars specifically. So, the whole business space crew is here, they're all together. Let's move on. A certain Djordje Belamaric, he was probably the assistant president of Vracar municipality, although it is difficult to catch, have changed 40 municipality presidents within a calendar year. He gave 633,000 dinars. I guess he had a big salary, by the way. There is Bane Kuzmanovic, then president of Vračar municipality. He gave modest 215,000 dinars to the Democratic Party. It was about two months' pay. Now, what he lived on for two months, I don't know, he needs to see, he needs to be asked. (Radoslav Milojic): How are you not ashamed? ) There was Marko Djurisic, a colleague across the street from us, with 341,000 dinars, who lived well. So, not to read everything, everyone who's been doing something in the Witch Community. (Radoslav Milojic: Thieves. They gave huge sums to the Democratic Party. You have a warning. (Radoslav Milojic: I am not in the system to get a warning. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26166	Mr. Milojich, you have a warning. (Radoslav Milojic: For what? Because you call people thieves, nothing caused. (Radoslav Milojic: I'm talking to Alexander.) You couldn't give me a warning, I'm not in the system, I didn't insert the card. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26167	Please, I'm not finished. Give me back this minute. Not to read everything, all who did something in the Vračar municipality, all who are connected to the Democratic Party in Vračar and Vračar municipality gave huge amounts to the Democratic Party. So they destroyed the municipality, destroyed all the public enterprises in that municipality. You transfer the money to the Democratic Party, suck out the money, he knows Ken, that's why he's yelling, he knows how to suck the money out of the community. It was a recipe at the time. Then you go to the opposition and after a while you take the most monstrous campaign against the SNS, against members of the SNS who, behold, dared to donate 19,000 dinars.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26168	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26169	Please count me in for at least ten seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26170	I counted you in. Just finish it, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26171	Then the question arises where does that member, what does he do, blood type, the number of shoes he wears, etc. The main topic in society, the main topic in the country, is where someone made 19,000 dinars. Thieves over thieves, a gang of thieves who sucked money and gave it to the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26172	Marko Djurisic, do you have a question? Here you go. (Radoslav Milojic: How did I get the reminder? I'm not in the system. You've earned it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26173	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to ask the authorities in the city of Belgrade and Vrakar municipality from which a previous speaker comes who has brought forth a lot of lies and nonsense here. That's not the question I'm talking about. The answer to these questions can be sought in a competent place. He could've asked for it in the past five and a half years, seeing as he's been asking questions about things that happened five and a half and six years ago. If something is not clear to him by now, I doubt he'll be more clear, but he can freely check everything he cares about, as I'd like to check out some of his financials and his party's finances. But that's not the question. The question is about the Vashcar municipality. In the last few days outside the Vračar municipality there are flea markets. The poorest citizens, and unfortunately those in Serbia are 30%, are forced on the street to sell their personal belongings to make it possible for them to exist. It's a picture and the result of the SNS government. Yesterday when children's Day was marked in the world, we could hear data that 8.6% of children in Serbia live in absolute poverty, and that more than 30% of children in Serbia are at risk of poverty. This is the result of the government for six years of SNS and coalition partners and that is what every citizen needs to know and every citizen should worry, the result of a disastrous economic policy that has led to the poverty of Serbian citizens. Instead of dealing with this problem, talking about it here in the Assembly and seeing what measures the state is going to take, whether a law on financial support with children will finally be passed, we are running away from this debate and hiding behind the big parolees and making plans to set up the highest masts, singing fountains, adorning the city of Belgrade in September of New Year's light. We spend millions and millions of dinars of Serbian citizens on nonsense, instead of focusing on solving Serbia's future. Children who grow up in poverty are children by rule and a great percentage in fact, those kids don't finish school, they can't get involved actively in life, they can't contribute to society and community. They'll do the weakest paid jobs. This creates a vicious circle that their families will live in poverty and their children. Every responsible society is looking for a way to deal with it, just not this government. So for six years, we haven't heard a single measure of how the state can help the poorest, but instead we have fairy tales and we have stories about the alleged robberies of the former regime. You've had six years to investigate the robberies of the former regime, each of us individually. Instead of using this pay phone here to call people who used to do something and were responsible for the functioning of the state, let's try to do something, something that will be for the good of the citizens, not here to attack and tell lies. A lie, yes, if I've paid 300 and a few thousand dinars, I've paid my money, I haven't sat in a bar, so someone with 800 euros has come to pay me for someone else's name. Is that a crime? It's a crime, Dr. Martinovic, read the law. (Alexander Martinovic: What did you do? ) The law says – who pays the money for a third party commits a crime. And if Alexander Vukic knows that a crime has been committed, then he needs to report to someone who has arrived at the bar with 800 euros and let two of them allegedly split it and pay it. You can tell those fairy tales to the citizens, but not for long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26174	Thank you. (Radoslav Milojičić: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. Wait till we get started. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milisav Petronijevic, Mr Dejan Radenkovic and Milorad Mijatovic. We continue the search in detail on the first item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE MEDICAL AFFAIRS. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Dr Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health, Prof. Dr. Berislav Vekić, Dr. Meho Mahmutović, Prof. Dr. Ferenc Vicko and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Đukić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Daniela Urosevic, Assistant Minister of Health, Dragana Vujic and Sladjana Đukić, Deputy Minister of Health, Lidija Bašić, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Health and Mira Kontic, Adviser at the Ministry of Health. The 100th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26175	You must learn something when you sit in that place completely undeserved, that the breach of the Rules of Procedure takes precedence over any other speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26176	What member, my colleague Milojicic?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26177	I can say that in another minute. Can you show me where it says I have to say what member right now?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26178	Call a member and don't argue, don't lecture.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26179	And don't pretend to be ignorant. I know you're not up to running this session, and all the MPs and the opposition see it... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26180	Thank you. Is anyone answering for a word? (No) (Radoslav Milojic): Why have you taken my word now? You think you'll be like this forever? It won't be possible. It'll turn around very soon. Shame on you! ) On Article 100 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 100th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) (Radoslav Milojic): Who are you? Shame on you! I just don't allow you to obstruct the work of Parliament. You have a warning, colleague Milojičić, one more. The 101st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 101 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 101st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 102 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted the amendment to Article 102. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 103 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the amendment 103rd. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs together Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zarić Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic and together Jelena Vujić Obradović, Marija Jevdić, Đorđe Kosanić, Petar Petrovic and Vojislav Vujic submitted to the same amendment. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26181	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to thank the Ministry for the amendment. This is the last in a series of amendments to the technical nature that we have submitted to this bill and which has been adopted. All I want is for a little incident, chairing, let me tell you, have an understanding of Mr. Milojicic, for the simple reason that he's frustrated, because he's not on that list of DS donors who gave money. So he was giving that money in cash to his central office, not through accounts, so that's why he's frustrated and have an understanding of him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26182	Members of the 103rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 104th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 104 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 104 of the amendment, MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted the amendment to Article 104. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska jointly submitted to the 105th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 105 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the article 105th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga together submitted to Article 105 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska jointly submitted to the 106th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 106 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 106th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga have proposed amendments to the article. 106, 108, 109, 110 and 111. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 107th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 107 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) According to the Rules of Procedure, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26183	I'm sorry, really, but I've been looking for a replica since Mr. Markovic mentioned me twice by my name and last name, if you haven't heard. (Zoran Krasic: You ran away then. I came back when he finished the speech. So, now you tell me, with luck or grief, no one from the opposition has a problem like your predecessor and you tell me. I was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which I had no right to, but to distract you, because you read quickly, probably to get it over with as soon as possible, can I get a replica, because my colleague Markovic mentioned me by name and last name? If... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26184	Mr. Milojicic, you didn't ask for a replica when he mentioned you by your name. (Radoslav Milojic: I asked, but you didn't say. No, you weren't in the electronic system, be sure of that. I was looking at the monitor. I don't even think you've even been in the O.R. (Radoslav Milojičić: I asked, but I said why you would not announce me.) And you're up in the meantime... Okay. National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojicic and Miladin Ševarlic submitted together to the 107th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 108 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 109th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 109 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 110 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 110th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 111 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 112 of the amendment, the MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 113 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 114 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 115 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 117 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted the 117th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? (Zoran Krasic: Yes. You have no right, colleague Krasic. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26185	Don't worry, we won't be provoking your time for long. I'd just like to remind my colleague and Mr. Secretary that this amendment is similar to yesterday. So more legal, more technical. He could have been accepted, nothing would have hurt the whole concept of the law. It's just, it's that wording of the office, so I said that gardens, hairs can't be arranged. But that's not the point. It probably didn't suit you to accept that amendment, it's kind of nicer to refuse the amendment to the opposition, but because of what's more important in that whole story, so I took the word and cut a little slack. So, I said that we and our political group and I will personally support this bill that we are talking about, because there really isn't, and these are the right colleagues and you from the ministry and colleagues from the ruling option, that there's not much to be disputed about, except those obvious indifference of language and style, but what someone said, it's not a lot of citizens, is it legal, especially whether it's linguistic and lexically impeccable. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, They did not accidentally have a number of amendments to the technical, legal and stylish nature adopted. The point is next. This law isn't bad, but you and I, Mr. Minister, are very much different in the assessment of the state of health. We'll agree that the law, you'll say excellent and colleagues from most will say it's great, I'd say it's okay, it can pass, but as far as the health situation is concerned, I think that there are significant differences and deep. My assessment is much less positive than yours, I think that opinion and most citizens are not so positive... in health care. Whether it's the predecessors, or the ones before them, and now we can drive from Coolin Ban, that's another question. That there's some effort, some effort, I agree, but I disagree with your explanation, it seems unconvincing to me your explanation of the number, of such a small number of health workers who left the country. My experience and my information show that they're leaving every day, that health care professionals and doctors and medical staff are leaving. In order not to move that, that Tuesday or that Thursday, I can ask you this question, you can answer later. So, data and statistics, maybe I'm wrong, maybe you're wrong, maybe those who tell me are wrong, I'm wondering if there's a record of the body that keeps that records of the doctor going abroad? Is it done through the Chamber of Commerce, do the medical centers from which these doctors leave? I would like to, I think the Serbian public would like to hear that information, because it is certain that there are serious holes, serious deficits of healthcare professionals. You mentioned, some new younger ones are being admitted here, and it's okay, and that there's a constant open competition in some parts or some health care facilities, that's also fine, but I think we're going to be facing a serious shortage of healthcare workers, because we're already facing, especially these middle-generation and younger ones, because they, as you and I know, are leaving mass. That there is a country where there is a worse situation, where there are situations in the environment and Europe, it is true, but it is not much of a comfort. So, I've mentioned those examples of insight, the Somborian health centres, the New Sad, some Belgrade, in reality, of people who deserve a medal, not commendation, but a medal, with what means, with how many opportunities and with how much material they can do their work, maybe not everywhere. These are those institutions and those health institutions where I had the opportunity to see for myself how they work. There are many of them, as I said, for the Order, not praise, and especially not to be punished, as they were punished by cutting wages, which have not yet been returned to the previous level. So, in that sense, okay, we'll agree. I don't mind voting for this law, although you don't need our votes, but I will support them, at least when it comes to this, we won't support this borrowing, because we generally vote against new borrowings, but when it comes to assessing the situation in Serbia's health, I don't think that assessment can be as positive as it seems to you, and ultimately, the court will give the cities itself. I notice the effort, I believe that you and your associates are working hard, that's not controversial, but I think the situation is very difficult. What you boasted about, I end up with, which you boasted about last time you came from the environment, you get to abroad, you get treated with us, that's right, there's that. It's really worse at a high level, but it's just talking about how our health care as well as our other institutions, how much it was, how high it was, not to mention the VMA, not to mention the Clinical Center. So, many other famous institutions, not to mention KBC Santas and tell some others, that I don't mind them, i.e. I don't deserve to mention them. So, great people, great centres that survived the sanctions, survived all those 2000s and survive now. I'm not sure it's the merit of the system, nor this, nor the previous ministries and ministers, but above all a single inert, but a positive inert of the high quality that old SFRY has achieved in many spheres, including health care. It's about school so we don't talk. Even wrong policies rarely and difficult to threaten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26186	Thank you. You've spent time belonging to you as a bearer and as an MP group. The word is made by Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26187	First of all, let me thank you for these nice words you said about health care employees. I agree with you that it is not crucial for you or your personal opinion or my personal opinion that there are citizens to judge for themselves, to feel for themselves and to give a final judgment. We're doing everything we can on that. I'm glad you mentioned it. It's not just clinical centres, it's children's clinics, and Tirshova and the Institute for Mother and Child, the Institute of Sremska Kamenica, our eye clinic. So these are all the places where people from the region come from, from abroad. If we were so bad or anything, surely none of them would have come here, but would have gone to another center, because we didn't make any of them come to us, but they just came here themselves. As for the exact number that's gone, and I'm glad we agree on one thing, that's the thing that's happening all over Europe, in the whole region. People go where the better conditions are, where the higher wages are. You don't have one of those central lists. For what reason? People, even when they leave, people don't say when they go – you know, we go abroad. They're trying to win in three months, in six months unpaid, or they're using vacations, days off, and they're going to go see what they're going to do, and they're going to think about whether they're going to stay there or they're going to come back. What we had, which is a condition for them to go somewhere, which is about 1,000 demands a year to the medical chamber for approval. That number's not even 1,000, it's under 1,000. Not to say again, we have people who go and work in the region, work weekends, Saturdays, Sundays. They're allowed to make such arrangements and work, but they're already here at work Monday. What I think we'll agree is that we have a situation like you say, if it were full of buses, full of planes stuck at the border, our system would stop. So no system would stand for that if we had that number of people to leave. So that's not the number. What's important and what's positive is we still have a serious interest in people hiring here and staying here, which is one of our strongest parameters. We want to invest in that generation. Like I said, we need a new generation to think in a new way, so we can make reforms that deserve our health care. To be clear, our health care isn't ideal. We were able to stop the collapse and slowly build that system. That system can't depend on us alone. It's one thing that depends on everyone. As long as we try, that's how it's gonna be. It has full support both in the Ministry and in the government and in everything that system should be the way it should be, arranged and satisfied with the citizens. Can we do it overnight? He can't. The results they've done, not to enter, are seen by the citizens. There's still work to be done, there's more work to be done, and only then will there be results. We think in about three, three and a half years, they'll be very visible results and we'll be the leaders, the best health care to be in the region.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26188	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 120th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 120th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 121 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic submitted the amendment to Article 121. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 122 of the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 123 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 124 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 125 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 125th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 126 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlić submitted together to Article 126 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 127 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 128 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 129 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 130 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 131 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 132 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marijan Rističević submitted to Article 133 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 134 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 134th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 135 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 136 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 136th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 137 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted the 137th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 138 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 138th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic, Nemanja Sarovic and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26189	It's a member who's in transitional and final provisions. In paragraph 1, the law will apply with the expiry of 12 months from the date of entry into force. So in a year, it'll start to apply. And, Mr. Lonchar, we're passing this law by emergency procedure, because there's a fire in the state, so we have a year to put out the fire. I have amended position 2 that says seven members of this law will apply from the day the Republic of Serbia becomes a member of the EU. That's right. That's not how it works. The Democrats have been putting these in on time - from the day of their entry into the EU, etc. And so on, but that doesn't mean anything. You remember in 2000, Vladan Batic talked about 60 billion waiting across the border just to get in, so in 2004, we enter the EU, so in 2007, we enter the EU, so in 2008 -- vote for my president, 1000 euros of free action, we enter the EU, so 2011, so 2012, so in 2013, not to order. Last year there were elections and then this was "faster, stronger, better" to get to the EU door. Look out, you're in a five-year-old till the front door of the EU. However, each country is at the door of the EU, only a matter of distance. There are 35 chapters here, 35 chapters, which means that every Serbian citizen will get over his head 35 times to make it clear to him that we can't go to the EU that takes away our kiM, which is the heart of our soul, you know, and that we can't go to those who bombed us, who dropped that uranium, so now, health costs are increased because people are irradiated. We have submitted the amendment, since we have determined exactly when Serbia will be a member of the EU, it will be on June 28th 2389. Mr. Lonacar, you and your team will remain recorded for seeing in two centuries when Serbia will be an EU member.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26190	Thank you, colleague Krasic. The word has the People's MP Muamer Bacevac, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26191	Dear colleagues and colleagues, it is very logical that what the solution is given suggests that we coordinate practically our policy, above all, with the EU in this case medically. Unfortunately, Serbia has had its head around it many times in the near past just as it wandered and did not know which way to go. The strategic definition of this government is the EU. Medicine, the world's best in Berlin, in America, is certainly not on Kamchatka. So, I want to say that this law is absolutely in line with European standards, and that is the definition of this country, and that is the only way that this country, as well as its health care, can take to the green branch and can raise to the highest level, the level of world standards, of which only citizens will benefit, in this case, the users of medical services.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26192	Thank you. Members of the 138th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic, Milorad Mircic, Vjerica Radeta and Ružica Nikolic. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26193	Perhaps this is the best example of the whole senselessness not only of this law, but of the many laws that have come before this Parliament. In this article, it is clearly said that certain members of the law will not apply until Serbia enters the EU, and some members of this law, imagine what kind of philosophy and logic it will not apply when Serbia joins the EU. We've passed a bunch of laws in this House that are either like this. We will not apply half the law when we enter the EU, and we will delete half of it until we enter into a circle. When we enter the EU, it's like that Jackna series -- you don't know when. We're starting to bid. Simply, a man can't get the impression that Sterija Popovic could write another capital act, "The Consumed Courgette". You all look like such a dirty pumpkin, where you literally prescribe laws. You cannot apply these laws until Serbia joins the EU. The European Union, my lords, in 2025 is a big question of whether it will exist. Then what are you going to do? You think you'll forget it. He won't. You'll be left with personal and professional and every other, even moral shame. You have to take care of it. The world will laugh at you. A lot of events change fast. History doesn't forgive mistakes. You are now passing a bunch of laws to quantify how successful you are and how you are doing it in accordance with European standards.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26194	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandar Seselj, Nemanja Sarović, Milorad Mirčić, Miljan Damjanović, Marijan Rističević, Tatjana Macura, Branka Stamenković, LJupka Mihajlovska, Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlić. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 1st Amendment in the same text were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandar Seselj and Nemanja Sarović and joint MPs Tatjana Macura, Branka Stamenković and LJupka Mihajlovska. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26195	You've tried to unseriously change one serious law, in fact, only three members of the law. It's not good, and the attitude of the SRS is that it's never good to make changes and supplement laws whenever something really changes in the law, it means that the whole law needs a little combing, so that the laws are passed for a long time. Here, you passed this law in 2014, so you changed in 2015, so now you're changing again. That means you didn't make a good suggestion. And we have expressed the view of the SRS in this way that we have proposed to delete each of these three proposed members, and thus we advise you to withdraw this amendment and supplement of the Health Documentation and Records Act and to propose a whole new law that we would very much like to discuss and ultimately decide. The question is, when it comes to this Article 1 whose erasure here is required, whether this member is regulated, whether it is in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act, because the question of who is the Data Manager is actually regulated by that law and there is no need to transpose it in this way and into this law that must fit into it. Also, when it comes to a violation in this second article, therefore, you have done nothing spectacular and nothing will change significantly in this area by proposing and which the congregation majority will accept and adopt these amendments to the law. This is only one in a series of proposals, I end up with Arsic, who will be admired by both members of the government and members of the congregation's majority. It is important for you to say – here, another law has been passed, and in fact this law has not changed anything fundamental in the field of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26196	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26197	Dear colleagues, when it comes to professional laws such as medical or law relating to a particular profession, it is very important that they monitor development, and the development in science today is extremely intense, especially in medical sciences, medicines, the medical organisation of a complete medical response. So I think that every change and every reform that's in progress is welcome and I'm not for that kind of criticism. As far as this law was concerned, it was missing here and you can see that when we passed in some past councils, we had the feeling that such forms were good. However, the trustee saw his mistake, and he made a suggestion. The ministry has accepted that suggestion that we should appoint someone to follow, in this case the Batut Institute, and that's a good thing. We simply improve the protection of medical records, the protection of the security of these data, and therefore this amendment should not be accepted. (Miss Radeta: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26198	Replica? You have no right to a replica. (The Belief of Radeta: He did not interpret me well.) And he didn't interpret you well? All right, but solve it either you or your colleague Krasic. You can't once... (Zoran Krasic: I have applied for the next amendment. That's what you're getting in line for the next amendment. Here you are, colleague Radeta.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26199	Yes, my colleague did not properly interpret what I was saying in the light of this amendment. Obviously, he spoke on the basis of this debate and it is really unclear what kind of reform it is and what is professionally and epochally reformed by this law. I understand that you wanted to change this, and I understand that it's going to be voiced, but it's going to call this an epochal reform, some progress technologically, and so on, it's simply not true. No matter what professional law this is, MPs are certainly preparing to discuss every law and whoever is seriously doing this job is able to discuss this professional law. When we talk about the bill in the field of health, of course, we know that we can neither operate nor prescribe medicines, nor establish diagnosis etc., but the law is something that is passed in the National Assembly and cannot be considered strictly professional. For you from the government yes, but in the National Assembly certainly not. That's why it doesn't mean that someone just because they're a doctor, a doctor or a doctor or a specialist or something. He can know better what this bill says. On the contrary, in particular this bill has nothing to do with medicine, it has to do with law, the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. This is the matter that graduate lawyers need to talk about, and that's why we're talking this way, we're explaining to you that you've spent some time doing this, that we're going to spend time in the National Assembly, and that you're essentially not going to change anything, especially not, as a colleague says, it's for everything that represents reform, progress. And we're for progress in health care, in every sense, but that with three members of some law doesn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26200	The word has the People's Messenger Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26201	I'm about to replicate... (Zoran Krasic: On what basis? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26202	Times. On what basis? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26203	Replica, you misread me as a colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26204	I'm sorry, Mr. Butcher, so we don't throw it away. There is also time as a parliamentary group and as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26205	No, I'll do it very briefly. He didn't... (The Belief of Radet: I do not defend, Arsic, a replica, but you must ask your fellowman the same thing as you are to me, and not to defend me. We stand up, let's replicate an hour here. I'm sorry, colleague. I have a word, I haven't interrupted you. I'm not interrupting either. I'll be very brief. You didn't read me well.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26206	Go on, fellow Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26207	It wasn't my intention, and you didn't get me very well either. Legal science is a science that also develops and monitors the development of other sciences and is exactly what you as a lawyer should know. Achievements in medicine, in this case we have also discussed other medical medicines, please, we have discussed other laws, legal science must follow these new achievements and infiltrate them into their legal norms. That's exactly what I was talking about, and in that sense we didn't understand each other, and without any desire to continue the discussion with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26208	Thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mirčić and Aleksandar Seselj and together the MPs Tatjana Macura, Branka Stamenković and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted together. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26209	Mr. Loncar, when you get back to the government, let the government and the legislation know that this is not a problem that you've had the chance to hear about this law. I do not dispute that the International Labour Organisation, the World Health Organization, used to prescribe their instruments the obligation to keep records, different records. I don't argue that since Tito and here, our experts have interpreted it as having to rise to the level of the law, but there were few countries in the world that had their own laws that regulated free access to information of public importance, and even fewer countries that had their own laws and regulations on the protection of personal data. The category began to develop in 1994, 1995. Let me remind you, in 1995, a federal regulation concerning the protection of personal data was first introduced in this room. He was quite inapplicable because there was no digitization. Since this is a new standard in the meantime, then all these work records, from the field of social policy, are not at the level of health that must be regulated by law, but are regulated by sublegal acts, and what is important for the individual and the public are regulated by the Law on free access to information of public importance and the Law on the Protection of Personality which binds the education system, health system, employment, social and pension, etc. Just to remind you that we have since seven years ago a specially funded project of social policy records. We took a big loan, it was supposed to build a big computer system. What's done is done, Mr. Ljajic will tell us one good day. So that's the basic thing why we've submitted these amendments. This is no longer a level for the law, and as far as I can tell, the draft of the new law is in progress, and what you've done under pressure, these two members you're changing, it's under Shabic's pressure, and you Shabic don't really believe everything. You know how that goes with him? Today like this, tomorrow like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26210	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26211	Thank you. Since 2014, the Trustee for the Protection of Personality Data has appealed and warned that this Law on Medical Documentation and Records should be changed urgently, that it must comply with our Constitution, more specifically with Article 42, and that some things in it are not sufficiently defined. After three years, here we are, where the biller has decided that from the hills of things to be changed in this law, according to the trustee's recommendation, he draws out one single one, to put it into these amendments and the additions of the law, to completely eliminate the others, and then wave the flag, we obeyed the Trustee. You didn't listen to the trustee. This is just one of the mass recommendations. It is hypocritical that you now represent this as a way of following the recommendations. A colleague, Bačevac, made the claim shortly before that the trustee had made a mistake in 2014. That's not true. The Committee could hear that the trustee had changed his mind since 2014. That's not true. Details of why it is not true I will explain when I have my 15 minutes as an authorised proposer, after the end of this debate, and in the meantime I just want to explain to the citizens that the reason why we have submitted the amendments is "deceased" is to express the protest that adopted one of the only ones here from the hills of the Commissioner's recommendations. Can't be the only one. This has to be withdrawn, to adopt recommendations, and then the law comes back to the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26212	The word is made by MP Dragana Barisic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26213	Thank you. Dear ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, I would not agree that amendments of the type are "wipes" adequate. I'd rather colleagues from the opposition, whom I still don't see in some number today, make a concrete proposal. As for the trustee, we all agreed that he obviously hasn't been doing his job properly and doing something else lately. I'm surprised that opposition colleagues don't condemn his politics, as well as the politics he's been dealing with until the recent Citizens' Protector. Serbian citizens pay him to do his job in front of an independent institution, not to protect the failed opposition, which is unfortunately in this parliament. So I suggest that this amendment be rejected, and I call on my colleagues to propose amendments and for which they are allegedly reasoned, whatever side of the paper, to propose something that will improve the laws, not just something that works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26214	National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić and Miladin Ševarlic submitted the 2nd amendment together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanović and Aleksandar Seselj and the joint MPs Tatjana Macura, Branka Stamenković and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted to the 3rd amendment in the same text. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26215	Since this is the last article and the last amendment, I expect the minister to deign us to answer why it was urgent for this proposal to be put on the agenda according to the urgent procedure and why is it necessary for this law to enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Messenger? What kind of pain has made you do that? You wrote in your explanation, for all of this, that I do not read what is stated, or because of the fact that the regulation of this matter in the proposed way can prevent the inconclusive consequences of the most important human rights of citizens, such as the right to privacy, the right to the protection of personal data, to security, etc., the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure and its entry into force on the day of publication in the Official Messenger. Now there is a very logical question – if this is not regulated from 2014 to today, were there any such consequences? If there were, what are the consequences? If someone is responsible for the consequences, who is responsible? Why didn't you inform us as the National Assembly about it and tell us here, we haven't worked in this part since 2014, and that's why what happened, but to tell us what happened, and then to have an understanding and to say good, we can talk about it? So this is something that only the order is doing proposed to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-21-0.u26216	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint 22 November 2017 starting at 10.00 a.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017.
