ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-02-0.u21453	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Your Excellency, I am opening the 12th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. As you know, I have called this special session to address the National Assembly of Njeg's Excellency, Mr. Prokopios Pavlovos, President of the Republic of Greece. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the National Assembly and on my behalf, Mr. Prokopios' Excellency, President of the Republic of Greece. In addition, I welcome the other respected members of the Greek delegation attending today's session. I am honored to welcome the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, and to welcome the representatives of the diplomatic crust in the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, I now ask His Excellency, Mr. Procopios Pavlovos, the President of the Republic of Greece to address us.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-02-0.u21454	Madam President, Mr. President of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you most warmly for the great honor I feel, indeed, and with whom you treat me by giving me a chance to address you. First of all, I want to point out that I feel really touched because it's been 20 years, and that's before I became President of the Republic of Greece. When I entered the Greek Parliament as an MP, then as a minister, and I had the great honour of being elected by the Greek Parliament, because such a system is in our country, so to choose me as president of Greece, and this is a great vote which is a great responsibility for me. I feel great nostalgia when I remember my mandate in the benches of the Greek Parliament. The Hall of the Greek Parliament, some of you have visited it, reminds me of this hall of yours, and I feel very close to you, so I will speak to you from my heart, not with formalities that are common to special ceremonies, such as today's. I will also tell you, with due respect, that body of the Serbian state that has the greatest legal democratic legitimacy. I will address you as it is for the representatives of the Serbian people, the great people who are currently fighting their fight, to protect their interest, their history, their perspective, but also their ability to join the great European family. Our two peoples – Greece and Serbia, Serbia and Greece have long-standing friendships. In 2017, we celebrate the 60th anniversary of the moment when the first Friendship and Co-operation Agreement between Greece and Serbia was signed. Do other nations have such a privilege as our two nations? And, much more than that, this co-operation is important in today's sensitive time for Europe and the world, and especially for our neighborhood, our region, when our common path and co-operation is based on the fight for two great ideals – for freedom and for the independence of our peoples. That's how our relations began to develop, and so Greece stood by Serbia when needed. I just remind you of the expression Elefteros Venizelos in very difficult years for Serbia, and I am very moved when I think that Serbia values Elefteros Venizelos and respects him, one of the Greeks, because he knows and knows, because Serbia knows that he is beyond the borders of his country, knows how to protect legal legitimacy and laws. That's how we move now. We have this common road here in our region, which is difficult on the Balkan Peninsula, and that importance exceeds the many fates of our peoples, is much too much, because it is of great importance for the Balkan Peninsula throughout Europe. We all know that, and we must be aware of the mission we have, because it lies above us as peoples. That is why we are working together today, and given the high values and great goals, we are working together to ensure the security, stability of international legitimacy, especially in our region, and these are the basis for our co-operation. Our region should be an area of stability, a security area, and an area of respect for international legitimacy. That is why our relations are exceptional and are getting better and you see it, and this is confirmed by a recent meeting in Thessaloniki, the first meeting of the High Co-operation Council, held on July 13th of this year in Thessaloniki, which confirms co-operation at the highest level. Mr. President today said the second co-operation council will take place early next year here in Belgrade. Six agreements were signed at the meeting, which are not only economic contracts. They exceed economic significance, because if you look at them in depth, they show the way of our peoples who want to share their fate not only on economic grounds, but also beyond economic and economic issues. That's why it's very important to us Greeks. I want you to know that we also want to happen with other peoples on the Balkan Peninsula. We want the same co-operation with us, we long for it, as I'm sure you wish in Serbia to have such co-operation with your neighbours. We want to build our relations on the stable foundations on which we previously worked, co-operation, stability, security and international legitimacy. But in order for that to happen, we need all of us to be determined and to respect particularly legal and international legal legitimacy and international laws and not to think that international law is applied only when it is our interest and that we can violate it when it is not in our interest. We should bear in mind that international law is fully applied. When applied, depending on the case, and where necessary, international law loses its meaning. That is why we speak to all the Balkan peoples – we are here, we want to cooperate, but friendship and co-operation are built only on the basis of full respect for international rights which we cannot choose according to need. I say so in front of me and those things that are meant to happen, and about relations between Belgrade and Pristina. The basis on which co-operation can and should be based, not only for Serbia, but for all Balkan states, is the decisions, or Security Council Resolution, and in particular Resolution 1244 of 1999, also the Brussels Agreement of 2013. In addition, this requires respect for the entire international community, and Serbia, which is a candidate country for EU membership, therefore, needs to respect European fluids. What does it mean to respect European assets and international law? We know that today, and we know it better today than we knew yesterday, after what happened in Spain, or Catalonia. Right where we all need to be at the height of the task, above all at the height of our responsibilities, we need to support, support European creation and know that there are rules in Europe and that peoples decide on their fate based on rules and can never give in to pressures and break laws. If we don't understand that, given everything that happened yesterday in Catalonia, which is happening to other peoples, as is happening here with Serbia, and if we are asking the people to violate the principles and values of European law for the sake of higher goals, then we are not protecting Europe, and we are certainly not protecting and respecting international law. That teaches us, that teaches us yesterday's bitter experience that should be the basis for thinking about all of us. That is why I told you, Greece's support and the position of Greece in relation to Kosovo is not because we Greeks want to show ourselves to you as good, we have made a decision and that decision cannot be changed because it confirms our friendship, and our friendship is safe, and we Greeks have made a decision to support you because in this way we respect international law and support European fluids in this way. Europe should move forward when it comes to its unity, we should support its path towards unity, it should avoid any decision that will put Europe at risk, above all, a violation of the fundamental human rights on which the European building, the formation, is based. We Greeks, or Greece, support the European way and the EU accession process, and why are we doing this? Because Serbia meets the requirements in this direction, which conditions do not meet other countries, and that is well known. When other countries are ready for it, we'll do the same thing. That's how we Greeks are. You have started and are going in the right direction and are walking with dignity on that path, and this is very important on the way to EU accession. In addition, remember that it was Greece who had the honour of starting the process of Serbia's accession to the EU in 2014. So then Greece chaired the EU. Your path is smooth and it is already a visible time point when your accession will end, and it is seen from the fact that 10 chapters have already been opened, and of that three very important, and it confirms that you are on the right path, and we are here not only to observe and follow you on that path, but when necessary, we have a huge experience, we are ready and we are standing by your side to help you. We already believe that in Europe and fortunately for the Greek people who have suffered so many victims, Europe now knows that Greece cannot exist outside the EU. Also, the EU does not want to exist without Greece, because Greece is a cradle of European culture and civilization. Although it's a small country and has a small population, it has a vision for Europe. That's why we support your journey and we're with you whenever you need us with the experience we have, which is both sweet and bitter, depending on the case. So I say, if you need this experience, we will be with you, as we will do for every other people who wants to join the great European family. We tell all the peoples of the Balkan Peninsula that we want your country to be joined by the EU, but we want to share a vision with you. Because we Greeks do not only have the past in Europe, but we belong to Europe, we are fighting in it to the extent that we belong and we are fighting for a European vision. Ladies and gentlemen, we have so much responsibility towards humanity and the role Europe has beyond the question of the nation. Europe is designed to protect the principles of peace, democracy, rights and social unity, which no other force in the world can support in the same way that Europe does. It's because of its culture, history. It is her destiny and we participate in such a Europe and we want to fight in such a Europe in order to reach the ultimate goal. This ultimate goal means Europe, a Federation based on a democratic principle, Europe that has the basic characteristics of representative democracy. We are not referring to a united Europe without federal characteristics and basic principles of representative democracy. We want a Europe based on the principles of solidarity. Remember, remember, you are now in the accession process in 1950, the Shuman who created, who is the founder of the EU and this agreement is the basis of all European and other, therefore, he talks about solidarity. At the very end, Europe will be a federal community that will support solidarity, justice, democracy and let us not try to bring down that pillar of European justice. This pillar is the basis not only of these structures, but also of culture, of Europe's civilization. The social system discovered in Europe after a bitter World War I experience, and I remind you that the first country is Germany, has just inserted into its constitution a provision relating to the social equality of the population. Today, Germany is the basis of the EU itself. So let's not underestimate that pillar, because that way we will put the people of Europe at risk, because of the wrong austerity policy that will lead to the problem. So it's a big problem for our people, our countries, and we need to pay great attention to that because we saw the results in the German elections. Germany should consider this because Germany represents the highest percentage of neo-Nazim. Germany actually created one Nazi formation that now has 13% in the congregation. It makes it collapse, that the principle of solidarity and the principle of social equality collapse. Then the citizens will start to wonder what the value of Europe is, what does democracy mean? Leads only to destruction, destruction, disaster. That is why we should support Europe with respect to the law and we are obliged to do so, we are also obliged to our peoples, Mr President, and to the EU itself. We Greeks, this is the kind of Europe we dream of. We want a Europe where there is a developed economy, where there is fiscal consolidation, but above all we want Europe to respect the values and ideals of the entire planet, which can trigger humanity, to avoid that nightmare that has led us to disaster many times, to destruction. Remember what we have as a legacy from World War II, in this context we can address all EU countries. We should work together, but there are only places in the EU for those who have met the conditions, who have the same vision as us, and not those who view the EU as a vehicle, or as a means of using opportunities to jump in and out to their own needs. That's not acceptable for Europe. We are ready to help them, of course, if they meet these conditions, and Greece does that because of its national issues, I also said that in our joint statements, and we are asking our national questions in clear European frameworks. I have already told you, Cyprus, that is, the Cyprus issue is not a bilateral issue between Greece and Cyprus, but rather a much bigger one. It is a European and international issue. What do we say about Cyprus? For Cyprus still living with the conqueror at the door, which includes occupation troops, and Cyprus is a member of the eurozone and a full member of the EU. We are looking for a solution right now and right now, but not the ones that are going, we are looking for a solution that is compatible with EU law. No one paid attention to Article 4. The European territory of Cyprus today has an occupation force and it is absolutely unacceptable. Can you imagine what a degree of violation of European principles is, I'm not going to talk about other details anymore? So what precedent would we make if we had such a country in the EU frameworks? So, in that territory of the Republic of Cyprus, there are occupation forces. What is Europe's perspective if it accepts such a thing? That is why I told you, and the solution to the Cyprus issue that we want to resolve, we are not putting into a set of our national interests, but in a set of interests and full application of European principles. In this regard, the European Commission should participate in particular. Many times I personally pointed out to my friend, Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan, we Greeks are favorably oriented towards Turkey's EU accession. We want Turkey to turn west, not east. We are ready to help her, but there is a precondition for this, neither can Turkey be denied the principle of respect for international law and European heritage. The Lozan agreement, i.e. the Lozan Peace predicts that the borders between Turkey and Greece, which are both Turkey and the EU, cannot be changed. So, according to Lozan peace, we can't argue with these limits. We insist from this that Turkey has a European perspective, that it respects the Lozan peace, but also respects the territorial integrity and sovereignty and borders of Greece, thus also the integrity of the EU territory. Therefore, it is necessary to respect these regulatory and these principles, and at the same time to respect the European heritage. We can't do another thing besides that. Not only can we Greeks not only accept it because of our history, but also because of the EU. Because if we retreat and kneel, it means that territorial integrity and sovereignty of the EU will be compromised and we cannot accept it. The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and we are ready to fight for it, I have cited it many times. We are ready to support it on the European path, but if you insist on using one name you know that violates history and represents a cartoon literally, which offends our logic and history, and you all see it, but it is not only that when you use that name, the name Macedonia, it means that you have a tendency to have an iredentism, that you want to change borders, it is also normal for us to all observe and read EU rules, to say that in no way is it possible for us to accept in the EU a country that wants to leave an open question of borders, because the borders of Greece and borders are at the same time the EU. Is that what Greece is to blame? No, it's not her fault. Is it Greece's fault that it says -- is it possible to allow such a country to join the EU while at the same time violating EU principles? So, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is the one that undermines its ability to join the EU. Where else could the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia rely more on difficult times for themselves and for its people than on you, on Serbia and on us Greeks? We have no claim against them. Why, I can't understand it, what is it that keeps them from solving what is in itself clear? The same goes for neighbouring Albania. We are here, we are ready, but is it possible that you want to be a member of the EU, and that you are violating the fundamental rights that represent European heritage, such as that of the EU? The right of ownership of Albanian citizens belonging to the Greek minority, which exists and is not disputed by anyone? So how can Greece accept that a European country does such a violation of the right, not people who come from there, but people who will become European citizens? Albania cannot violate their rights. Where that is the meaning of European fluids and European rights which you, Mr. President, and you gentlemen MPs have opened a chapter relating to human rights, and you already know that this marks respect for such rights right now. In the end, I will end up no longer bothering you, Mr Rama and Albania should imagine, watching their actions lately, how they want to join the Union when it comes to serious issues, for example as a question of Kosovo, I heard that the other day and made statements with a member of a self-proclaimed government in Pristina, and is it possible that someone who made those statements, who has such opinions, could ever think of having any perspective on the European path? We do not say that because we are any of their opponents. We want peace, security, but we want it to be respected international legal legitimacy, which is a necessary prerequisite for that. Gentlemen, I'm tired of you, but maybe because I missed the meeting very much, or meeting people in parliament. I told you I came here to be honest with you, to speak from the bottom of my heart. I want to point out to you, not because we are friends, I want to support you on this path, because you represent an example of how people should behave, people who want to join the EU. I'm telling you, support your principles and values, because these are European principles and values. Do not take a step backwards, do not retreat, protect European principles and values. We'll always be with you, remember that. I really wish to the Serbian people the creation and strength of an adequate historical perspective of this great nation, as your history has shown and confirmed. I want the next one, I have already said, the president of the Republic of Greece who will have the honour of addressing this parliament, to do so in the parliament of Serbia, which will then be a full member of the EU and a member of the Eurozone. Thank you so much, good strength and God be with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-02-0.u21455	I thank His Excellency for speaking to the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. I conclude the 12th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. Thank you.
