ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26546	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 133 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that there are 140 MPs present and that we have conditions to work with. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented today, and this has been reported by MP Balša Bozovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure for the need to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. You were presented with the minutes of the 5th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly, the First Session of the Second Regular Session and the Thirteenth Special Session. Please, let's approach the vote. I am voting on the minutes of the fifth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session, held on 20, 21, 25, 26 and 27 September this year. I conclude the vote: for – 137 MPs, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. I am voting on the minutes of the First Session of the Second Regular National Assembly, held on 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 12 and 17 October of this year. I conclude the vote: no one, abstentioned, voted 25 MPs for – 137. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. I am voting on the minutes of the 13th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session, held on 30 October this year. I conclude the vote: no one, abstentioned, voted for - 137 MPs, against - 27 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 13th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. With the call of this session you have received the proposed agenda before voting for the agenda, we are moving to consider the acts by emergency procedure. The government has proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Debt Regulation of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda following the basic unpaid foreign exchange savings laid down by the banks whose head office is in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territory of the former republics of the SFRY. I conclude the vote: no one, abstentioned, voted 32 MPs for – 139 MPs. I find the proposal accepted. The government proposed putting on the agenda an emergency procedure on the draft law confirming the loan agreement, the promotion programme, efficiency and sustainability programme, the infrastructure between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 138 MPs, against—no one, abstentioned—no one voted 35 MPs. I find that the proposal has been adopted. I find the proposal accepted. The government has proposed that the draft law on financial support for the family with children be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 140 MPs, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that a proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed that the draft amending and supplementing the Budget System Act be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 140 MPs, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that a proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed that the draft law supplementing the Law on Citizenship of the Republic of Serbia be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I find that a proposal has been accepted. The government proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the election of the president and members of the Energy Agency of the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. The government has proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – a draft law on the validation of a working arrangement between the Serbian Republic's MUP and the EU Training Agency for the implementation of CEPOL law. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – a draft budget law for the Republic of Serbia for 2018 with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic Fund for PIO for 2018; a proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Republic of Health Insurance Fund for 2018; a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Social Insurance Fund for the 2018 Social Insurance Fund and a proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the National Employment Service for 2018. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 142, against – three, with abstentions – there is no. I find the proposal accepted. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Employment of Foreigners. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 142, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 142, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that a proposal has been accepted. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Regulation of Courts. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 142, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 142, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that a proposal has been accepted. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the time-limits for the settlement of monetary liabilities in commercial transactions. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 141 versus – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that a proposal has been accepted. The Government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that a proposal has been accepted. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on corporate tax. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 143 against – one with abstention – there is no. I find that a proposal has been accepted. The government proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda – draft law supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 143 against – one with abstention – there is no. I find that a proposal has been accepted. The government proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Employment and Insurance Act be put on the agenda following an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 142, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that a proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Decision amending the Social Insurance Fund's financial plan for 2017. I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 141 versus – no one with abstentions – there is no. I find that a proposal has been accepted. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Decision amending the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2017. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 141 versus – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that a proposal has been accepted. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Tax on Income of Citizens. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -142 versus – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that a proposal has been accepted. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Property. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 143 against – one with abstention – there is no. I find that a proposal has been accepted. The government proposed to put the emergency procedure on the agenda - Proposal for a bill on the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of the autonomous province and units of local self-government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 143 against – one with abstention – there is no. I find that a proposal has been accepted. The government proposed that the urgent procedure be put on the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 140, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that a proposal has been accepted. The government proposed putting the emergency procedure on the agenda - a draft law on border control. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed to put the draft law on public service employees on the agenda after an urgent procedure. I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -141 versus – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that a proposal has been accepted. The government proposed that the emergency procedure be put on the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -141 versus – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that this proposal has been accepted. The government has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a law on foreigners be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Branka Stamenković suggested that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the termination of the dual education law be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—four against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 48 be put on the agenda. Law on enforcement and security (Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia No.106/15 and 106/16 – authentic interpretation). I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 versus – one, with abstentions - none. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MP Dejan Nikolic suggested that, by emergency procedure, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Trade be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—four against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds have proposed to put, by emergency procedure, a proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2017 Financial Plan of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143, v – five, with abstentions - there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National MPs Cedomir Jovanovic, Enis Imamovic, Nenad Canak, Natasa Micic, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Zarko Korac, Nenad Milic and Bajro Gegic suggested that, in an emergency procedure, they put the proposal for a declaration of public condemnation of war crimes and criminals' attempts to rehabilitate. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic and Maja Vidinovic suggested putting the draft law on the agenda to stop the validity of the Higher Education Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the resolution and appointment of members and deputies of the Republic Election Commission, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the MP group Enough. Do you want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the reasons for the huge losses incurred by the Public Enterprise "Electroprivreda Srbija", Belgrade, as well as the total amount of state aid allocated to the Public Enterprise "Electroprivred Serbia", Belgrade. Do you want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26547	Thank you. For years, public enterprises in Serbia have been making huge losses. Among them is the "Electroprivreda of Serbia". When we look at their balance sheets, we see that they make profits out of business, but after that, as for the collection of claims, as far as the electricity they have supplied is concerned, they stand very badly and record the losses that weigh hundreds of millions of euros. Since nobody's talking about it, or there's no analysis of what's going on with those EPS debts, we see that we have problems year by year. We had problems in the first quarter of this year, where, among other things, because of the business of Elektroprivreda Srbija, there was a decline, i.e. much lower GDP growth, than was planned and expected. We need, in our opinion, to form a polling committee to check the business of "Electroprivreda Srbija", because self-management does not give us any answers to what is happening in the company. Restructures have been made, many things have been done, but in the end we have not received any changes in the business itself, which is clearly seen in the financial reports. So these losses significantly burden the economy of the Republic of Serbia. First, there is no profit that would be paid into the budget and thus create a space for projects, for example for tax cuts, for some basic introduction of order and for allowing the breathing of the domestic economy. On the other hand, we need to see who these electricity defaults are, to get into the analysis of these mostly legal entities, since most of those who haven't been paying electricity for years are some big losers, even private companies, who are not charged with electricity. So, to reduce these huge losses, to disburse the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the only way to actually determine what is going on in Elektroprivred is to form a polling committee. We see in the budget year by year how the cost of activation of guarantees given by the state for loans taken by public enterprises, which is mainly run by incompetent management that has been set up by the party, and the polling committee should check all these items and see why these losses are happening and why guarantees must then be activated by all Serbian citizens and therefore there is no money for projects that we think are important for all citizens, starting from health promotions to free textbooks and other projects. The purpose of the survey committee is to determine why there are huge losses in Elektroprivreda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26548	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. Since MP Balsa Bozovic said he would not attend today, let's move on to his points. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the Bill on Amendments to the Capital Act. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Defence. I'm putting the motion to a vote. People's MPs speak out loud. He deceived the congregation. What do we do? Someone signed it. We can determine in the office whether it's his signature or someone else. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. Since you're here, let's get in line. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be completed... No, he wrote Balsa Bozovic and someone signed him today... (Balsa Bozovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. We'll discuss it now. So, MP Balsa Bozovic today, and I read that, informed the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, according to the Rules of Procedure, that he would not attend the meeting. Whether he signed it or someone else had to clear up in his MP group and in his office. (Balsa Bozovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to a replica. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law on the termination of the Law on the determination of public interest and specific procedures for the expropriation and issue of a building permit for the realisation of the "Belgrade on Water" project. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go. Now I'm going to show your memo to the citizens of Serbia, just to get it from my office.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26549	Thank you. The most important resource in the world is building land. This building land, by selling it, by putting it into operation, the world’s metropolis are building the metros. So, the subways aren't built out of credit, because it's not worth it, but they're built with building land. Building land is extremely valuable in Belgrade. The entire robbery privatisation was actually made for building land. "Belgrade on Water", or "Savski amphitheater", freed some 100 ha of construction land, on which urban plans are intended to build some two million square meters of business and living space. One plot, a piece of land is worth as much as it can build. If we take these parameters, it turns out that the land on which the "Belgrade on Water" should be placed is worth about a billion euros. This land is practically donated to an Arab investor. It's suspected that it's not really an Arab investor, it's some of our money that's circulating through these investment funds. It is a huge resource, which was supposed to first create an urban plan, so that this "Savski amphitheater" is arranged as it is necessary for the Belgraders, not according to the investors' wishes, but as the Belgraders want that part of the city to develop, and then to disintegrate the land in the tenders, so that both the city and the whole state can make these huge funds available in the budget. Instead, instead of getting into the Sava Amphitheatre, a project worthy of Belgrade, which will really do what is in the interest of all citizens, instead of making a huge amount of money, means, about a billion euros, has joined this one, according to our corrupt law, which has made it possible to call through strategic co-operation this huge resource presents to investors who practically have no investment to build apartments there by selling them in advance, taking money from customers, and then investing it further into construction. A huge profit has been transferred to that part of the story. All these contracts with these Arab investors, as they are called, were in fact negotiated by Mladjan Dinkic during my time as Minister of Economy. I stopped those contracts then. However, after my resignation, they returned and were eventually adopted in this congregation by the ruling majority. So, the proposal of the DJB parliamentary group is to withdraw the law, then edit the "Savski amphitheatre" urbanist after that and allow the budget to be made, both Belgrade and the billion-euro Republika Srpska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26550	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that the Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda of today's session be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Elections. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26551	Many irregularities were recorded during the election, both locally and in the republican elections, in the presidential elections. This amendment of the law is aimed at correcting the transparency of the whole process, putting the results of elections on all polling stations very quickly and in time, to oblige the municipal electoral commission to hang all records from polling stations immediately on its website in the elections, to enable citizens and all participants in the electoral process to be able to see what results are signed by the election committees immediately after the minutes have been concluded in certain polling stations. The problem that we have seen since the 2016 parliamentary elections, and beyond, the presidential 2017, and the local elections in 2016 is that these records were mostly messy, that they were not signed by all those members of the electoral committees who had to sign them, that they were not taken over by the authorised representatives of the electoral lists who performed in these elections, that the signatures were forged, that the records were rewritten, sometimes just crossed numbers, entered new ones, sometimes rewritten with the whitelist, and that if we establish this process and adopt these amendments of the law, they would become available to the public as soon as those records were finished in the polls themselves. Otherwise, the RIK rule concerning local elections states that these records must be clearly filled in, to be clearly seen, to fill all fields in order to prevent subsequent changes to those minutes. It is these changes in the laws that go towards correcting the process, that all records are immediately highlighted on the websites of municipal electoral commissions and, too, to allow all citizens, as they can today, to see if they are listed in the electoral list by simply going to the municipal electoral commission's website, by entering the home number, can see if they are in the voter's list, too, to allow them immediately after the election to check whether they have been recorded as voting. This would prevent all stories about how they vote dead, how people who are abroad vote, and in fact someone else voted for them. If this system was introduced, which is a simple addition to a system that already exists, where every citizen can check on the site whether it has been recorded, so those who have not voted can see that it is so recorded in the voter's list, I think it would make a very significant contribution to improving the electoral process.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26552	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and amendments to the Law on the selection of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26553	This is a similar bill, as well as previous local elections, for MPs. So we've got big problems with the voters' list. We have 6.8 million voters on the polling list, and there are about 5.8 million adult citizens. Even the number of 5.8 is not present in Serbia, a large number is on temporary work abroad. So we have an election list that doesn't reflect a clear state. Even the number of IDs issued, we asked for data from the MUP, we expect it every day, is far less than the number of people in that polling list. So, this amendment to the law implies that every citizen after the election can check whether it was recorded that he voted, so that those who voted can see that those who did not, they can verify that they did not vote. We had enough and evidence and a story about, say, the dead being recorded for voting. We found examples of this, when we checked the voter list after the elections, in the parliamentary elections in 2016 and 2017, we informed RIK about it. However, our objections were rejected as untimely, because the law itself predicted that the deadline for submitting the objection was very short, and we can't determine whether, say, we have cases that someone who has passed away, recorded that they voted until we have an insight into the electoral material, and we have 24 hours to do so. Since we were not allowed to do so, we were not able to handle our objections in good time. So this amendment of the law would allow every citizen to check through the RIK website, simply by entering his home number, not only if he was listed in the voter list, but whether he voted in certain elections, presidential, parliamentary or local, and on that basis would prevent this abuse from anyone else voting in your place, as we had the opportunity to see in the session in 2017 or in the 2016 parliamentary elections. Also, the legislative change provides that deadlines for the voter's material to be highlighted, meaning, the minutes, the short ones, that immediately after the polls are closed, we get the logs uploaded on the RIK website, so that it can be seen whether the records are recharged, whether they are properly filled, whether they are signed by all authorised persons. The big problem with the election was just that. This allows you to remove any suspicion of manipulation with the records. We, for example, checked all the records in 2016, got copies, a few months after the election, since it took so long to get to that material, and found that a huge number of records had been rewritten, somewhere white, had been crossed somewhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26554	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in the lawless destruction of buildings in Belgrade's Savamal district and to determine the facts of the responsibility of the person who destroyed those facilities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26555	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Democratic Party's MP club, along with counterpart Marko Djurisic of the Social Democratic Party, has tabled a proposal to determine all the facts that led to the collapse in downtown Belgrade of someone's private property and someone's roof over their heads. That night, the police wouldn't react. Soon we will come out with concrete evidence and facts that indicate that representatives of the city government were even present, some of them, at the scene of the crime. They today represent the top of Belgrade's government and come from the Serbian Progressive Party. Action has been co-ordinated with police, with municipal police, with city services and with the work of the underground in Serbia. That's what we've been saying all this time, that the Serbian Progressive Party is in very close contact with the underworld in Serbia, which has provided for citizens to connect, that they can't call the police and who are ordering the police not to go to the scene of crime and events. And that's what's very important and what needs to be examined. You can turn your head, as well as the prosecution, as well as the police, as well as the President of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Mayor of Belgrade, but, eventually, this case will be investigated and many who have been in a relationship will answer to the laws of Serbia. We cannot allow you, as well as some politicians in Serbia, to say that it is only a few old warehouses and spaces that have no longer been used. There was someone's house, there was someone's job, there was someone's company, and these are things that, according to the Constitution of Serbia, are untouchable. And you can't come up with the idea of bringing something down to someone else's property. It's not legal. Unfortunately, one witness died after the event, out of stress, out of fear, of everything that hit him that night, but it is certain that the Serbian Progressive Party, along with its officials, will be responsible for the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26556	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—25 MPs, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26557	The law on the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates is, according to us, against the constitution. The MP group has sent enough to the Constitutional Court an initiative to assess the constitutionality of this law. This law places investors from the United Arab Emirates above domestic investors, puts them somewhere beyond the law, that is, certain laws are not applicable to them. So we think this is an extremely harmful law. First, harmful to the legal order, and then economically harmful. Namely, all the investments we talked about with regard to the United Arab Emirates didn't come true. It has been promised for "Belgrade on Water" that it will be billions of euros, and we see that investments are extremely small, in fact, that Serbian citizens themselves finance construction, for now, only two towers. Then, the sale of a strong country in Vojvodina, i.e. the lease of Backa and Sivac, in Karadjordjevo, the lease of land, is far below market prices, so that domestic couples cannot reach that country, because it is given to these large investors, who are practically nothing there and do not work. It's like someone in there just put their paws on the property. The country is an extremely important resource and, through this agreement, it has come to this call for investment. All citizens of the Republic of Serbia living there, in the vicinity of the Sivac, in the entire North-Baba district, and beyond, at the peaks of South-Bakh, know that nothing really happens there as far as the investment is concerned. All these investments we talked about don't happen, and the law itself actually gives rise to the fact that it stands and that resources are not used in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We advocate that domestic investors have the same benefits as all other investors, not to make laws that please foreign investors in relation to domestic investors, in particular that agricultural development should be based on domestic agricultural holdings, to restore the cooperative system. These are all the things that should be done, instead of signing these contracts that would practically turn our parore, let's say, as far as this part of the contract is concerned, into cheap labor, or rental labor. Also, under this agreement, the sale of JAT, i.e. Er Serbia, which records huge losses, which I will talk about in one of the next proposals, so that all together this agreement that we have made with the United Arab Emirates is counter-constitutional and should be withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26558	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 20, against – no one, abstentioned – anyone. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the certification of signatures, manuscripts and transcripts. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the reason for the huge losses suffered by Er Serbia, the commitments that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Etihad have towards Er Serbia, the total business loss of Er Serbia from 2013 to the day, the total amount of state aid granted to Er Serbia during the same period and the damage to the contract signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with Etihad and the United Arab Emirates. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26559	Thank you. Er Serbia has been recording huge losses since Etihad took over. I will remind citizens that the contract was signed in 2013, that the management of Etihad, in fact, our people were set up by Etihad, took over JAT sometime in July 2013, that in the first half of 2013, JAT's management, the old management, had losses in business of around 10m euros, that losses in the second half of that year increased to almost 40m euros, that losses in 2015 were over 70m euros, that losses in 2015, 2016 continued in this trend. Although there has been a significant decline in the price of oil affected by Er Serbia, losses remained at some 40m to 50m euros. Citizens probably don't know, but every year all citizens of Serbia and pensioners, and doctors, and all public sector employees who have submitted a great burden of reform through pay cuts and pensions, according to the government, each year subsidise Er Serbia with 50, 70 etc. millions of euros. When the total amount of subsidies is taken, it exceeds 200m euros in this period to date. The losses continue. Some lines are introduced that have no economic justification. On the other hand, all Serbian citizens also pay the monopoly given to them at Belgrade airport through high ticket prices and the withdrawal of some foreign carriers. The JAT management was practically replaced, new people were set up to introduce order. Unfortunately, however, none of this happened but continued with great losses. In addition, "Er Serbia" has signed contracts with Etihad, managerial contracts that draw tens of millions of euros each year from "Er Serbia". Etyhad also supplies aircraft that are then rented "Er Serbia". The whole engagement is extremely damaging. Since management is not responding to these important issues within its financial reports, within a note, since in public this is not as much as needed to say, since in the budget, the proposal for the Republic of Serbia's 2018 budget is intended for taxpayers to pay activated guarantees and interest, among other things not only for "Serbia", but also for "Er Serbia", it is necessary to form a polling committee to determine what is actually going on there. So it's a huge cost for taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26560	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal to resolve Veroljub Arsic from the post of vice-president of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26561	Thank you. This proposal was submitted at the end of last year, and then renewed at the beginning of this year and here we are discussing it. We were promised that a session of the Assembly would be scheduled to discuss this proposal, as well as a motion for a replacement of Parliament president Maja Gojkovic. It was promised to all Serbian citizens in front of the cameras within a month of submitting the proposal. Unfortunately, until today, that's not what happened. So, problems within the work of the Republika Srpska Assembly are solely responsible for the chairman, who do not respect the Rules of Procedure, selectively apply it, allowing insults at the National Assembly. They allow it to be spoken completely past the agenda point where everyone who has opposition, in our case our MP groups, responds with insults, with stories of personal life, which is strictly forbidden by the Rules of Procedure. For example, when a debate is being held on basic education where we advocate free textbooks, on the other hand we hear insults and things that really have nothing to do with the agenda point, or what the MP group has been saying. This collapse of the National Assembly is an extremely serious matter. Citizens should know that the Assembly is the Supreme Legislative Body, that in the Assembly all things in society can be changed by changing the law, that by unthinking the debate, by bringing debates to the bickering of MPs, by talking about personal lives, by inventing things that are not true, in fact, prevents the National Assembly from doing things that are in the interests of citizens. Vice-President Veroljub Arsic is constantly doing this from session of the Assembly to session of the Assembly, where opposition MPs are not allowed replicas of insults, where MPs of the ruling majority are allowed to insult the National Assembly and its dignity both in the end and in all citizens. It's not a problem with us as MPs, we've been elected here by a number of citizens to represent them, so the insults they've sent to us as we speak of agenda points are actually an insult to all those citizens who voted for us. They expect a constructive debate at the Assembly Hall. They expect that there is a dialogue, that replicas are respected, that the Rules of Procedure and all the rules that exist in the Rules of Procedure are respected. Unfortunately, we have their systematic breach. At the end of the price, citizens pay because they pass laws without any discussion that are ultimately harmful to all citizens. Because he does not respect the Rules of Procedure and because he has shown that he is unable to take care of order in the National Assembly, the MP group Enough has been proposed by the resolution of Veroljub Arsic from the post of vice president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26562	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented with the point of the proposal for a resolution of Maja Gojkovic from the post of National Assembly President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26563	Thank you. Similar to the previous argument only with much greater weight. We think that the main culprit for what is happening in the Assembly is for the constant violation of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic, and therefore we propose her shift. The collapse of the dignity of the National Assembly goes through constant violations of the rules that exist to show citizens that the rules do not seem to apply to everyone, but that their selective application is possible. I will remind all citizens that the MP group has had enough of the president of the National Assembly almost thirty times referred questions, parliamentary questions, to which she has an obligation to answer within 15 days and to answer them in writing, not verbally after asking questions. We didn't get a single answer. So, after we ask the question, it is ticking by professional services, directed to the president of the National Assembly, the answers do not arrive. Instead of answering the question, we have the President of the Assembly, who is commenting on the questions, instead of answering them in writing, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Then, as we could see today, in the congregation, the ruling majority of the votes on the bells. In our opinion, it's a great humiliation to this home. So if you pay attention from the start of the National Assembly every time the ruling majority should vote for some proposal by the President of the Assembly to press the bells and thus give them a signal that they should vote yes. Every time they have to vote against, or not to vote the bell, they don't hear it. Everybody can check that out. The media can check it out, too. It's very simple. You can see it on all the footage from the National Assembly. We have a big problem of insulting within the National Assembly by MPs of the ruling majority, where after discussing the amendments, where we are talking about the agenda point, we are proposing things that may not be good in the opinion of the ruling majority MPs, however, this should not cause insults, the story of personal life, the attempt to disdain because it is pulling back on itself to demean all citizens who voted for the MPs in this house. The National Assembly is the supreme legislative body, the most important independent body to control the work of the executive authority. That's not happening in this assembly. None of the opposition's proposals go through. No survey committee. We can't make any proposals on the boards, since the ruling majority refuses. No parliament in a regulated world behaves in this way. So, the opposition needs every parliamentary democracy to make arguments against and make proposals to improve legal proposals. The proposal is for Maja Gojkovic to be removed from the seat of the National Assembly president.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26564	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 24, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law amending the Law on Judges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26565	Thank you. The Law on Amendments to the Law on Judges has recently been passed in this congregation, which has introduced several changes that have been extremely bad and partyly motivated. The law was passed under an urgent procedure without public debate and practically what was allowed by this law was to extend the term of office of the President of the Court, to allow them to have a second term and to extend the work of the President of the Court until the term of office of the President of the Court. We have also pointed out that these changes are harmful, that practically, the collapse of the independence of the judiciary is achieved, that these judges are politically controlled and that these changes need to be thrown out. This was also the result of a public discussion that was conducted by both the judicial associations and the professional public during the adoption of the law as a matter of urgency. So, what we are proposing with this law is that these provisions be abolished, that as for all judges and presidents of courts who practically perform only the administrative function of leading the court, that the same rules apply to them, as well as to all the other judges, that their term of office, when they are full-time, ceases the term of office of the President of the Court and that they are prevented from choosing more times to do so, as the law predicted. We think that through such provisions and such a change of law is actually strengthening the independence of the judiciary and removing instruments that can be used by the ruling majority to control judges. When you have that second term, then during that first term, judges who are politically alike will take care to pass on the ruling majority so that they can reach their second term. This is not only a question for this ruling majority, but also for any other ruling majority, because when the ruling majority changes, we will have a very similar problem, that when the re-election of the President of the Courts, the ruling majority will once again have an instrument that will then be able to influence the work of the President of the Courts, to practically introduce them to listen to the dictatorship of political parties. So we think that this legal proposal, by abolishing these provisions, is actually a significant step in the independence of the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26566	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 21, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26567	Thank you. Pensioners know very well that in November 2014 a law was passed which, in our opinion, anti-restricted pensions, i.e. reduced pensions, all of which are greater than 25,000 dinars by 22% for that amount of over 25 000 and for all pensions that are more than 40,000 dinars by 25%. This took some 20 billion dinars annually from pensioners, so if we take those two months in 2014, all of 2015, 2016 and almost by the end of 2017, about 60 billion dinars were taken from pensioners, according to us against the constitution. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Court has refused to consider whether this law is against the constitution, so in the end the whole thing ended in Strasbourg, where individuals of pensioners complained about such provisions of the law and we expect this European Court of Human Rights to actually resolve this issue. This retirement, in addition to being unconstitutional, pensions are not social benefits, pensions are assets, pensioners have spent money on a pension fund, every month real money, which was then managed by the state. This pension reduction would be equivalent to putting money in the bank your whole life, on some occasion, and then the bank self-initiatedly reduces what you need to get from what you saved and that, practically, because you need money, you deny what your property is, or are your money. When we look at the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, meanwhile, because one of the arguments was that there was no money in the budget and that it was necessary for pensioners to give up this part of their income, I think only a summer view of the budget clearly states that it is not true. Let's say, in this 2018 budget, on behalf of the activated guarantees of incompetent public enterprises that are unable to repay the loans they took, the state needs to separate some 30 billion dinars. That amount in the previous year was 40 billion dinars. It's very similar a year before that. This clearly says there's money in the budget, but there's no order. It is spent on incompetent party staff who cannot manage public enterprises, and then taken from pensioners, doctors, teachers, other educators, etc. So here it is necessary to correct this injustice, to abolish this harmful law, not to wait for the court in Strasbourg but to immediately abolish it and return the pensions back. Instead of fictitious increases, return what was taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26568	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for -27, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find the proposal not accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the President of the Republic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26569	Thank you. This is another law that would significantly improve the transparency of the electoral process and could significantly prevent any electoral theft in the polling stations and manipulation of voter lists. In the first part, it refers to the fact that after the vote has ended in each polling post, after the minutes have been signed, the minutes are immediately uploaded to the RIK website, so that all citizens can see that the vote at the polling post has been completed, while the vote counting by the RIK itself, which collects the minutes and determines the final collection at the level of all municipalities and at the level of the entire Republic of Serbia. What we saw in the 2016 parliamentary elections is one mass revision of the minutes, either by bleach or by crossing the items and correspondence of other numbers. Then, in the 2016 parliamentary elections, we saw that not all members of the election committees were, in large numbers, about 30% of the minutes were signed by those who were to sign those minutes. So, such a provision obliging RIK to publish all the records that all Serbian citizens could then see would significantly go in the direction of composing all suspicions of any election theft. This is not only for this ruling majority, but also for the previous ruling majority and for the future ruling majority, that we know that we finally broke up with these and stories once. The second thing, in those 2016 elections, we found a significant number of citizens who were registered to vote, and in fact they died, or we had data that they died. The objections to these records were unable to be filed within that time period, because the deadline of 24 hours, from the closure of the polling stations, or the publication of these results, cannot be physically controlled by the election material at that time, to determine whether someone who died or whether they voted abroad at that time. What can solve this problem is that, as any citizen today can go to the RIK site and check with his home number that he is listed in the list, to add information on whether he voted in certain elections, such as the 2017 or 2016 presidential elections. The entry of that would be of the material itself, so that no physical insight into the paper version would be required, and any citizen could check whether his voice was recorded, if he voted or did not vote, that the voter list clearly shows, that it is seen that he did not vote and that he can check for his deceased. This would significantly improve the electoral process.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26570	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 22, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted by Ambassador Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify the facts and circumstances that indicate the link between Aleksandr Vukic and Andrej Vucic with the rightful convicted drug dealer Aleksandr Stanković, called Sale Mutavi and the forced takeover of the luxury restaurant "Franš" in Belgrade, management rights over IT companies "ALTI/VIN-VIN", "Prointer", "Energosoft". The word is Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26571	Thank you. Obviously, since the police and the D.A. don't want to do their job, I think this should be transferred to the National Assembly now. We've waited long enough for these allegations to be questioned and the prosecution to react. But that didn't happen. We would therefore like to remove all possible doubts that there are links between the criminal parts of the fan groups, not fans, to make one big difference between these two things and the top of the state, the President of the Republic, as it has been found that there are links between them and that the survey board determines the nature of these relations between them and finally discuss it in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This should be a job for the police and the D.A.'s office. Since this is not happening, the National Assembly has a supervisory role to play over all institutions in the Republic of Serbia, so it has a supervisory role both in the police and in the prosecution. Unfortunately, the ruling majority does not allow the National Assembly to take advantage of its supervisory role, to examine all the circumstances regarding the murder of this man, to determine whether during the search of his apartment and the cars, official IDs of the Republic of Serbia were found, whether official weapons were found, and where in the first place, that weapon was owned by a man like this. I think that for the state of Serbia, all citizens at all, it is necessary to clearly show whether or not there is a link between the top of the state and some criminal organisations within the state and the control of those criminal parts of the cheerleading groups, which then, by their actions, is practically muddying all fans who sincerely and with the heart of the courageous clubs that represent. Once again, because the prosecution and police are not doing their job, they refuse to carry out an analysis of these things, to initiate appropriate procedures, where one or the other would be determined, the only institution left to deal with this job is the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which has the authority to control the executive authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26572	Before the vote, I am obliged to say that under Article 68 of the 5th position, the committee cannot carry out investigative and other judicial actions. I'll put this to a vote, but your argument doesn't fit the business provisions. Here's who wants to vote for this proposal. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the reason for the huge losses incurred by "Zelezara" Smederevo from 2014 to today, the total amount of state aid granted to "Zelezari" Smederevo in the same period and the damage to all contracts concluded by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in connection with the business of "Zelezara". Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26573	Thank you. In the context of large, not only the losses incurred by enterprises that are partly or entirely state-owned or social enterprises, on the continuum of incompetent management, which is unable to manage these companies, which are unable to do a basic analysis of business, to establish how to develop this company, in which direction investment is needed, we also had major losses that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are suffering from. I think it is necessary to form a survey committee in order to determine how many losses they have suffered in "The Irons" Smederevo, from 2014 to 2016, so they continue. To finally and citizens find out that the Chinese investor did not buy the company "Zeljezare" Smederevo, but bought the property "Zelezare", formed a brand-new legal face, took over the employees, and "Zelezara" continued to exist. The assembly passed laws covering the huge losses made by "Zeljara" in 2014-2015, the losses were 270m euros. The citizens certainly remember this Czech management, which was announced as the savior of the Irons, who made these huge losses, without any consequences afterwards, and it was all covered and no one talks about them anymore. It's a huge amount of money, to remind the pensioners of one year alone are being kidnapped 180m euros, the loss of "Gelezzare" Smederevo is 270 for these two years. So this tells us about saving in places that shouldn't be saved, which is pensions, and that's not the basic thing that should be done, which is the introduction of order. "Gelezara" Smederevo was one of those who did not determine the ID cards I asked for as a minister of business, to list the assets, evaluate the assets, do a market analysis, make some business plan, and then on this basis ask investors, but instead, after my resignation in 2014 and 2015, entered an adventure with this Czech management, which signed contracts through its related companies and were, in fact, the main suppliers and iron sellers, that they eventually achieved so many losses that they had to cover citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It would be normal for all these circumstances to be presented in financial reports. It would normally be noted with financial reports that they contain information about exactly what happened. But we don't have any of that. The only remaining instance is that the National Assembly survey board determines what was really going on there, and as for this previous proposal, the National Assembly has the authority to do this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26574	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Saša Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine whether the opposition civil movements, minority parties and opposition parties, were stolen and registered as votes to the electoral lists Aleksandar Vucic - Serbia wins, Ivica Dačić - the Socialist Party of Serbia, Unique Serbia - Dragan Marković Palma and Dr Vojislav Seselj - the Serbian Radical Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26575	Thank you. The only way to finally break up with stories of election theft and if there were, to find out that there were, and if not, to find out that they weren't. We claim it is, but that would be a question for the survey board, is to make an insight into the entire election material. To determine the content of all the records. Yes, the committee, the polling committee of the Assembly, determines what these records look like to see how many minutes have been revised. To make an insight into the electoral lists themselves, see if there are any people there who voted and who died. Let's see if the voter material is counted as it says in the final results. To determine the difference between the results in the local elections and the 2016 parliamentary elections, to finally eliminate suspicions that there are thefts in the election process. To repeat once again, the MP group has had enough, claims that there have been thefts in polling stations in 2016. However, that claim should be verified. If the survey committee is formed and we find that it is not true, that is to say, to see the election material that everything was in accordance with the law, then we will apologize for what we said and say that we were wrong. As a result, there is always a cloud of doubts over the elections held because of the impeccability of the voter lists, because of the various manipulations that the public knows very well, of which the ballots are marked, so that they form so-called. "Bulgarian trains", until they vote dead, to vote people who are not in the country at the moment, but abroad. The only way to finally break these doubts, that citizens have full certainty that when they give their vote, that the vote is correctly counted and that the results of the elections are more precisely that all relevant facts are determined through the survey board. The Republic Election Commission refuses to do so, refuses us and execute as a parliamentary group an insight into the election material. Therefore, the only way to do this and the right place to control this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The highest interest should be that, after each election, all citizens have complete certainty that their votes are counted, counted correctly and that all parts of the election process are properly carried out and in accordance with the law. The regularity of the election is a top social interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26576	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -23, against - there is no one, with abstentions. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to see the overall election material of the 2017 presidential elections and determine whether the election material contains anomalies and what it consists of. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26577	Thank you. Very similar to the previous proposal concerning the 2016 parliamentary elections, and this is for the 2017 presidential elections. So, to carry out a full analysis of the election material so that we can clearly and unequivocally say whether there was manipulation, whether there was a theft in that presidential year 2017. So we know, and we filed criminal charges as far as it was concerned, that there was manipulation in three municipalities, in Sjenica, Tutin and Novi Pazar. We also wrote what the manipulation consisted of. There was a vote of dead people, there was a vote of people who weren't in the country at the time. We've also proposed to the police and the D.A. to determine these circumstances. We didn't get an answer. This was determined by an ex post insight into the election material, where for the people we knew they weren't in the country and for the people we knew had died, we found a signature next to their names in the election material. Also, to check all the records, to see if they are filled correctly and in accordance with the law, so that the National Assembly can learn something from the process and then propose legal changes that would improve the election process. Security is extremely important for citizens, to know when they vote that their voice is correctly counted and that there has been no manipulation of that voice. Also, to know that what we have in the polling list is a large number of votes more than a full-time citizen, to repeat 6.8 million people are included in the voter list, only 5.8 million citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the ministry argues that the difference in people who have moved from Serbia, the deceased, means that no voter list has been updated. This is also needed to be checked and checked on a specific case, in this case presidential elections in 2017. After that, we could clearly and unequivocally determine where the problems are in the electoral process, where the problems of counting votes and removing these problems are, so as not to completely eliminate any doubts about the regularity of the electoral process. The best way to do this is completely transparent with insight into election material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26578	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -21, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts and circumstances of the bankruptcy that is being carried out over the Mining-Topier base Bor, the reasons for the huge losses incurred by Bor, the total amount of state aid granted to RTB Bor and the harmfulness of the plan of the reorganisation of RTB Bor, which he submitted to the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26579	Thank you. The mining-topic base Bor has been making huge losses for years, and practically because RTB Bor has managed party personnel for years, unprofessional people, and the only reason they're in that place is because they have a party connection. These huge losses were accumulated at over a billion euros and then one so-called. The UPPR that they tried to erase all these debts and place RTB Bor, as it was then said, on healthy feet. Unfortunately, this has not happened, and we also see this in this proposal for the 2018 budget, where it is envisaged that despite the existence of the UPPR, which is the pre-prepared restructuring plan, the state of Serbia should bear great costs. When I say the state of Serbia, I mean taxpayers, I mean pensioners, I mean doctors, I also think of private sectors that support the budget through their taxes, that support RTB Bor, which apparently continues to make huge losses. As MP "Enough Has Been", Branislav Mihajlovic, he was a doctor of science and engineer at RTB Bor, spoke of it both at the Committee on Economy and at every opportunity he has, this unprofessional management has made a catastrophicly bad project of the Bore solvent plant, which continues to make huge losses. It appears that copper concentrates with extremely harmful substances are imported, which then pollute the additional environment, and that the processing is done below market prices and that the profit from it is then poured into private pockets. These are all the things that should be examined within one survey board. The Republika Srpska Assembly has jurisdiction over this. When the government doesn't do that, when management itself doesn't release that information in its financial reports, the only instance that can do that is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which can check that business. These huge losses that are made in public enterprises end up being overrun by citizens, in the economy, and that's actually one of the main reasons why we have very low economic growth, which is practically below everyone in the region. Not in Europe, but in the region. It only seems that Macedonia is beneath us because of the problems they had on the political agenda. So we need a survey board. It's about huge money, hundreds of millions of euros, and somewhere it crosses a billion euros. So, on the one hand, we're talking about how it takes saving, how pensions and wages are taken, and on the other hand, billions go this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26580	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 21, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the reasons for the huge losses incurred by JP "Srbigas", as well as the total amount of state aid granted to JP "Srbijagas", start from the establishment of the company in 2005 until today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26581	Thank you. "Srbigas" is already all Serbian citizens know, a huge loser who is making losses year after year. Every once in a while, it's a year where they don't make a loss, but it's purely accounting, as the director of "Srbigas" explained to us. There is obviously no order in this company, no condition has been established, no list of assets, no clear business plan, no clear picture of how to get out of the situation we're in today. In the proposed 2018 budget of the Republic of Serbia, all Serbian citizens are expected to bear a burden of activated loan guarantees, which he took among other things "Serbiagas", but also Er Serbia and others I spoke of today, worth 30 billion dinars. We had a very similar item last year, when that amount was about 40 billion dinars along with interest payments on those activated guarantees, and a year before that another 40 billion. This is a total of over a billion euros that went away because of incompetent management that is unable to bring order into the public enterprise. Normally, this would be the work of the government, the competent ministry, the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Industry, who don't do this job because they're simply trying to hide that it's actually happening. The public enterprises, instead of a source of profits and a source of services, are a significant service provided to citizens of Serbia, in fact turned into large black holes in which hundreds of millions of euros of citizens of the Republic of Serbia disappear. Such behaviour then leads the ruling majority to argue that there is no money, that there is no need to cut pensions, that they reject the proposals “Enough was enough” to introduce free textbooks for all children in primary and secondary schools, although this is a minor cost compared to these huge costs I am talking about today. So, since the government is not doing its job, since management is unable to put order into "Srbigas", it is necessary for the National Assembly to form a survey board to examine the business of the company. Citizens should know that in an orderly world, in orderly democracies, polling committees are constantly formed, formed on opposition proposals, that this is an important part of parliamentary democracy where it is shown and, in fact, on concrete examples, a dialogue between the position and the opposition is conducted. Unfortunately, in Serbia none of these proposals, which are in the citizens' interest to determine the real state of affairs, the ruling majority in Serbia does not accept. This "Enough Has Been" will change with this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26582	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sasa Radulovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts relating to the irregularities in the voting and circumstances that led to this and marked the conduct of elections for the President of the Republic of 2017 in the territory of the Municipality of Sjenica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26583	At the time of election control for the President of the Republic, we made an insight into the electoral material in several municipalities, so much time we had, among other things, in Sjenica. We've established from the voter's list that it's written that people who weren't in the Sjenica at the time, who we know by name and last name, that someone else seems to have signed for them that they voted and that the election material was in boxes. Also, for citizens we know did not vote in the election material, it is written as if they had voted and some signature stands behind them. It seems that, from what we've seen, there have been serious electoral manipulations. We also had video footage showing how to insert ballots into boxes, because there was obviously some agreement that the local parties were unable to honour, as voters in the Municipality of Sjenica did not want to go to elections and support the presidential candidacy of the president of the SNS, that they also had to raise those quotas in this way and meet those quotas that seemed to have been agreed in advance. For this reason, we have filed a criminal report stating by name and last name which citizens we know reliably that they were not in the Republic of Serbia at the time of the vote. We asked the police and the prosecution to check these allegations, check the border crossings and check through conversations with these people to see if that's true and then find out who forged their signatures and why it's in the election material like they voted in those elections. Since the authorities, or since the police and the prosecution have not done their job after this time frame, our proposal is to form a committee of inquiry to carry out a check of everything that has been going on in this process. Of course, we do not suggest that the polling committee conduct any investigative actions, but that it conduct talks with all the police and prosecutors and see why this process takes so long, as it has been established in the process of verifying the allegations from a criminal report, so that we can inform the public. I remind you once again, the correctness and regularity of the election is the foundation of democracy. Citizens demand that they also get the security that when they vote, their vote will be counted and there will be no false voices and any manipulations with election results. This survey board would help us finally come to such situations that we are sure the elections are regular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26584	I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 21, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MPs Sasa Radulović and Dusan Pavlovic proposed that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. Sasa Radulovic. Here you go. Do you want a word? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dusan Pavlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs. Here, the word is Dusan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26585	Thank you. I've proposed amendments to the electoral law relating to a few things. One thing I think is that the most important thing is to enable our citizens who live and work abroad to also vote and participate in the elections. This right they, of course, have now, but under very restrictive conditions. In order for someone who lives and works abroad to vote at our consulate or at the embassy or elsewhere in that country where he lives and works, at least 100 voters who live there must register. That's a rather restrictive condition, since it often happens not to report a sufficient number of voters and then voters who want to vote can't vote. So our citizens living abroad are placed in an unequal position compared to voters living in Serbia. Not only do they have fewer chances of voting by having fewer polling stations, but they are very often far from where they live, usually there is only one polling place for the whole country where citizens live and that puts them in an unequal position. So that's the first one. In this proposal, I suggested that this condition be lifted and that elections be organised no matter how many voters apply. The second most important change is the introduction of an election census for coalitions. So, as you know, we now have an election censorship of 5% that applies to parties that go out on their own, and to coalitions of two, three, four, five or 10 or 15 members. I suggested that a progressive growth of the electoral censorship be introduced for a growing and larger number of parties that make up the coalition, so, say, a coalition of 10 parties would have to skip a 63% censorship, which means that, let's say, this coalition sitting there on the other side of the assembly hall could never have entered the Assembly if it had gone to elections under this law. I think it would be a good idea to adopt this because very often, with the large coalitions, small parties are tossing out small parties that could never have a promilic percentage of votes and thus enter the Assembly on the burden of someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26586	Just without insulting the MPs, please, when you're proposing a part of the agenda. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dusan Pavlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on complementarity of the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26587	Thank you, President. I'm sorry if I offended someone. It's a good thing you reacted. You should always react when someone is insulting in this congregation. In this bill of law, I suggested a few things, but one is important. In order to prevent domestic violence and to prevent it, to help victims more than the current law allows, I suggested that victims of domestic violence be provided financial assistance if they are at the same time unemployed. In fact, I've had the chance to see a few surveys in other countries, though, not us, where it's shown that victims of violence, when they know they're left without any monetary incomes if they're reported by a bully, they're very often giving up on ever turning to the police, to the court, to the prosecution, to anyone who can protect them from violence. So, in this case, research has shown that it's mostly about women who are unemployed, where spouses, i.e. The other side, it is the only source of income, and then very often the other side uses it to harass the victim, expecting that it will not report it, because it also loses its source of income by furthering it. As you know, this current law implies, for the first time, a good solution, that a bully is moving away from the family, but it's not good that the victim is then left without any monetary proposal. My proposal is that if the victim is unemployed and loses any financial assistance to enable her to receive financial assistance equivalent to 150 euros a month, then the aid increases with the number of children left with her. So, even more if she has one child, two children, etc. I think this would be a good idea to adopt, this isn't, to say the party question, this is a question that concerns all of us. If you have adopted in this House the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, it would be good for this supplement to be adopted, since it essentially aids and encourages victims to report abusers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26588	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – one, abstention – no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Dusan Pavlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Chambers of Commerce. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26589	Thank you. I have proposed a bill amending and supplementing the Chamber of Commerce Act. Why is this law problematic and what should be complemented? Because it gives the Chamber of Commerce one privileged monopoly position in our economic system by which it obliges all economic operators to pay mandatory membership fees to the Chamber of Commerce. I'd also like to ask if anyone can explain to me what logic that is? What is the logic that obliges all economic operators to pay in some Chamber of Commerce mandatory membership, whether they have or have no use for it? I will read to you briefly this member who I have proposed to change, which is said to be members of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, according to this law, may be all economic operators who perform registered business activities in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and who are previously written by voluntary means, to underline here once again voluntarily, expressed their will to be members of the Chamber. Therefore, only one who voluntarily decides to be a member of the Chamber or of any other association of the Association of Organisations, any other economic organisation may indeed be a member of that Chamber. Otherwise, to remind you, there is a member of the Constitution of Serbia, a member of 55, in which he writes very clearly – presidents you are a good knower of the Constitution of Serbia, in which he writes very clearly -- the freedom of political, trade union and every other association is guaranteed and the right to remain outside each association. It doesn't seem to apply to members of the Chamber of Commerce, to many companies, to many corporations, to many businessmen, entrepreneurs, to actions that seem unable to avoid this. Please, this law should probably, this Chamber of Commerce Act should be abolished as anti-constitutional, so we don't do that, I ask you to adopt this proposal where only one member is changed, where membership in the Chamber of Commerce is left for free for all economic operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26590	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I'm more of an expert in civil law, indemnity compensation, that's my profession. I conclude the vote: no one, abstentioned, is available for – 18. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to determine the facts of the circumstances regarding the destruction of buildings in Belgrade in the part of the city, known as "Savamala", on 25 April 2016. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26591	Thank you, President. As my colleague Balsa Bozovic spoke about, the need for the Assembly to form a polling committee to respond to what happened in Nice on 24 April 2016, SDS, NS, as well as DS, has recognised this need, given that 17 and 18 months, there has already been no response from these events by the public of Serbia, although you have said that the committees of inquiry cannot replace courts and prosecutors and cannot deal with investigative actions, they should not, but should be a place to talk about everything we have heard for the past 18 months, and it was obviously not enough to end up by the prosecution and police investigations and to process and be responsible for what happened. And what happened that night? Private facilities were torn down by strangers, with phantom masks on their heads that brought heavy machinery to downtown Belgrade for three hours to destroy someone's private property. The people who found themselves in that place were deprived of freedom from strangers with phantoms on their heads, and those who managed to escape and call the police, the only person in charge in the normal democratic state who could use the physical force to come and see what was going on, had no answer from the police. Because what the public needs to know who organized and ordered the demolition? Who organized the unknown people with phantoms on their heads and who was it who called the police, who ordered the citizens not to do their duty? When you ask these questions, you get the answer that the President of the Republic gave in the words, that the complete idiots at the top of the city government are responsible, that they were the ones who organized and ordered the demolition, and that the police minister was directly responsible for the police's failures that night. That's what the survey board needs to confirm.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26592	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: no one, abstentioned, is available for – 23. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Dusan Pavlovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on psychoactive controlled substances. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26593	Thank you. This is one, you could say calm souls say, revolutionary law for this body. I'm asking you to listen, and it's about the Law of Psycho-controlled Substances that regulates when someone can use such substances and for what reason. I have proposed to amend a member who refers to, excuse me, several members, relating to the cultivation, sale and possession of cannabis, cannabis oil, exclusively for medical purposes. So I suggest that all those people in this country who have health problems, serious health problems, who can get help and ease their suffering, their suffering, using cannabis oil, finally regulate that use in a way that will allow them to use free, uninterrupted and not to bear any criminal sanctions. As you know, there is another law that regulates this issue of Criminal Law. Together these two laws are prohibitive, they prevent people from using cannabis oil freely for health reasons. People who have health problems, not only suffer from these problems, but also when they buy cannabis oil on the black market, because it exists, it's reality. There's a big black market in cannabis oil that's been created just because of laws like this. So when they buy that oil, they have to do it with a guilty conscience because they break the law. I'll give you an example that happened in Leskovac about a year ago. The husband bought cannabis oil on black for a wife suffering from multiple sclerosis. Mr. Risticevic, don't get any more, because this is a subject that is totally non-partisan. So the husband bought cannabis oil on black for a wife who had multiple sclerosis. They've got three little kids. He was caught and arrested, put in prison for a few months because he committed a crime. A wife suffering from multiple sclerosis was left alone with three underage children. I don't know if there's anything more pointless than this. Please adopt, or at least start a discussion on these issues. These are important above-party issues that do not benefit any individual party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26594	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MPs Tatjana Macura, LJupka Mihajlovska and Branka Stamenković proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the prevention of domestic violence. Does Tatiana Macura want a word? (Yes) The word has the people's messenger Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26595	Thank you, President. When we adopted the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence in November last year, what will happen, unfortunately, and at the session for which the agenda is yet to be adopted. In fact, we had a united discussion and the worst consequence of the fact that all legal proposals in a united debate are discussed most often in this assembly is that we have bad or not well - adopted laws as a consequence. One such law is the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence. We could do much, even during the assembly debate in principle or in particular, to improve this bill, however, by denying time for representatives of the ruling coalition, but what is worst for opposition representatives by deprived time and by some unwritten form, by refusing all possible constructive proposals, we are coming to the conclusion that we have received a law that has been applied since June of this year, which we already knew will not be good at applying. What I propose with the proposal of supplementing this law is that every district police administration has an obligation to have at least one trained police officer who will be trained enough to prevent domestic violence. The practice is to say that most police administrations now have it, but we want police administrations all in Serbia to have an obligation, to have at least one trained police officer on this issue. The second thing I'm proposing is that if the perpetrator of violence is a fact of alcohol or psychoactive substances, it only starts to the point of retention when the fact of alcohol or psychoactive substances ceases. Then, I suggest that the victim be informed of the urgent measures imposed on the perpetrator of domestic violence, for the simple reason, because if she doesn't know them, I don't know how she's going to report that some of the emergency measures have been violated. One of the important things we also propose in addition to this law is that meetings in the coordination group can also be attended by a person who will appoint a victim of domestic violence so that she does not go through the process she has already been through. So, I repeat, the united debates are destroying the quality of the laws themselves that this Assembly is adopting. I ask you to accept my proposal to supplement the agenda, so that we can make a proposal that is already in force, that is, a law that is already in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26596	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 23, against – no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the dots – Proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code. Do you want a word? (No) I'm putting the motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Games of Happiness. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Marinika Tepic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – two against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted National MP Zoran Zivkovic, he suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law supplementing the Government Act. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26597	Thank you very much. This is a set of health laws, which includes care for the health of a nation that needs to be implemented by first creating good conditions for the health of responsible bodies of organs and individuals in this country. In the Law on Government, I propose that above members and Article 11 be changed and read – Health ability, incompatibility and conflict of interest. Well, that article 11 reads – Before the government is elected, any proposed member of the Government must provide the National Assembly with medical assurance about the health capacity to establish a working relationship in state bodies. A member of the Government may not be in another public office in a holding body, etc. The point is in this first attitude. So, it's good that, I've already said this several times, a few dozen times, that the highest-ranking operators in our country have one clear, clean and honorable proof that they are capable of performing their functions. If we rightly ask everyone in the state administration, from first-ranking officials to the lowest rank, from the ones placed, from all those who need to establish a working relationship in the state authorities, I think it's perfectly natural for these conditions to be met by officials, who also form a working relationship in state bodies. There are many conditions to be met. Let's say a man can tell the difference between black and white, that he reacts to other desires, that he understands what time he lives in, that he's aware of the situation around him, so that you don't happen, let's say, that you have a member of the government that I think he was one time and the Prime Minister, that three years ago he proposes an apartment of 300, 380 euros per metre square, so everyone's wondering if a man is normal. Then, when he changes his function and starts to represent himself as president of the state, he says those same apartments should be 550 euros. There's someone out there who's not normal. It's usually people who come in or out when someone talks with the full right of proposing to supplement the agenda. There's a lot of them. But it's your turn, and it's your turn. I'm not telling you anything directly. I have an amendment to the Law on the selection of Members of the People, so I'm going to dedicate that part to you. So, for a checkup. Who wants to be a minister, first examination.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26598	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 22, against – no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Vesna Marjanović suggested that the agenda be complemented by an accurate – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Natasa Vučković suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Natasa Vuckovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the law on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law amending the Labour Act. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26599	The labour law is also an important law in the field of health, but much more important than even, be convinced, much more important than the question of the health of the president, the member of the government or the MP, which is that in the proposal for a law on the work of Article 181 of attitude 1 changes and reads: "In pregnancy, maternity leave, absence from child care, absence from child care for special care and absence from work due to temporary prevention of work for more than 30 days, the employer cannot cancel the employment contract". I don't want to talk about whether it's a party question or whether it's a state issue or whether it's a civilization issue. This should be members, people sitting here as representatives of the people in this highest home of democracy, potentially, in Serbia to know for themselves. The fact that some people head down and have one blow of shame because they're going to vote against this proposal just because they won't hear the bells, is, unfortunately, the sad fate of this country and this people. So, I invite you to vote for that if anyone for any reason, is that God's will, is that genetic heritage, is that, however anyone wants it to be... whether this is due to the 1999 bombing, is sick and has to be treated, meaning on sick leave for more than 30 days, that there is a legal disturbance, or an obstacle for the employer to fire him during that period. It has nothing to do with whether someone from Presevo, Subotica, Bujanovac or Dorcolo, whether he's young or old, whether he's married or single, married or single, has nothing to do with whether he believes in miracles, whether he thinks he should start sneezing the city at Mitrovdan and end up on Jurdjevdan for the New Year, has nothing to do with it. This is a matter of protecting people's health. I expect at least the doctors there are enough here to show that they're more doctors than party paratroopers and support this bill. So, again, if you haven’t realized: “During pregnancy, maternity leave, leave of work for child care, leave of work for child care and leave of work due to temporary prevention for more than 30 days, the employer cannot cancel the employment contract. ”
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26600	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 25, against – no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the law on the election of the President of the Republic. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26601	Another one from a set of health laws. So, in the Law on the Selection of the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia No. 111 of 2007 and 104 of 2009 in Article 11(3) after point 2), point 2a is added, which reads: "The medical assurance of health skills for the establishment of a working relationship in state bodies". It's a very important thing. So, that's eight or nine conditions that the candidate should meet when he is running for president -- to give a written statement that he accepts the candidacy, to give assurance of citizenship, to give his belief of electoral law, to confirm residence, to sign voters, to give written authority to the candidate's proposal, to a coalition contract, if he has it, an agreement on the establishment of a group of citizens, if he has it, but also medical assurance of the health capacity to establish a working relationship in the state bodies, because otherwise, we can get a president who sees the Danube-Egei Sea channels, which, of course, builds Serbia and China. It doesn't matter what a little bit goes on and some Macedonia and some Greece. Never mind, we'll finish it. And the fact that they're two plums, one Black Sea, another Aegean, and that doesn't matter, just didn't say that president who didn't pass a doctor's examination of which side the water is going, whether it's heading for the Black Sea or going towards the Aegean Sea. Maybe I'm celibating, maybe it's irrelevant details, but I think it's important for people to see which side the channel goes to, so they take it into consideration when they're dealing with big investments in the development of our country. Or we have a case of a president building apartments three years ago that, of course, have never been built, nor will they be built, nor was there a chance of being built, nor should anyone need such dwellings of 380 euros. If he had passed a doctor's examination, he wouldn't have said today it would have cost 550 euros. Imagine if we chose him tomorrow as president of the local community, and then he said it should be 800 euros? That's why it's important for people to have medical confidence. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe all of this can, but he has to prove to me the one who suggests he's healthy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26602	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I'm closing the vote. (Zoran Zivkovic: Please, I answered the word. I see you've had a pleasant chat with Jesic. I thought you didn't want to. It's a final vote. No one voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law supplementing the Law on Higher Education. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26603	Thank you for the highly honored honor of fulfilling my right and for being able to speak in time concerning the addition of the agenda and thank the President for making it possible for me, unlike a few minutes ago, since I was then in the position of the body she assessed as unworthy to give me a word, as far as I understood. So the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Higher Education to introduce a dangerous Soroševska, and perhaps even worse, a formula called academic honesty. I feel a high level of fear and panic amongst the congregation's majority of all colors and smells, but that's something that's necessary, and that means that it's stopped with the graduation, that we have a president of the state who didn't get a degree and graduated on Sunday when his time isn't, that we have a minister of the interior who didn't doctorate there on something that's supposed to be called the university, that we have this little mayor, who's also doctorate somewhere, they're not going to give it to him on another, so he found uphill some college to doctor there. It has to be prevented. They're not the only ones. There are amongst the opposition or at least among those who pose to the opposition. These are things that are inadmissible. I read in the paper the other day that 2,000 doctors or graduates are afraid of something because that action was launched. If this action, which I believe is run by the Ministry of Education, is the result of an initiative that I have been proposing for two years to prevent the crime of stamping false diplomas, then it's good progress, but not enough. It can't just be a pre-election public hearing. It can't be a spin that lasts until tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. It has to be based on the law. I therefore propose that in the Law on Higher Education, many, in Article 4 after point 1, add point 1a, which is – academic honesty. After Article 5, the title and Article 5a, which reads, to explain, academic integrity is based on independent, imagine, written works, as well as strict respect for other people's copyrights. I know it's too much to eat. I know it's hard to understand for many, but believe me, it can't hurt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26604	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 21 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point – a motion for a resolution of the National Assembly on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire between 1915 and 1922. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26605	In view of the fact that 102 years since the beginning of genocide against the Armenians, and carried out by the Ottoman Empire from 1915 to 1922 and that over 20 countries, including the Russian Federation, Greece, Belgium, France, Canada, Cyprus, Italy, Switzerland, Argentina, Uruguay, Sweden, Lebanon and others, have recognised and condemned the genocide of the Armenians, which was carried out during that period by the Ottoman Empire, it is necessary for the National Assembly to adopt a resolution on the recognition and condemnation of genocide against Armenians committed in the Ottoman Empire. This resolution would make Serbia solidarity with the Armenian people. And if someone should be solidarity with those who have survived and over whom the genocide has been committed, we are Serbs, and indeed other citizens living in Serbia, other nationalities. Not only are I talking about those examples in the last 200 and a few years of modern Serbian statehood, we had genocide and autogenocide, which the local government in Serbia exercised over its own people from 1990 to 1999. In some moments, she was assisted by various abnormal forces. At some point, she was in alliance with the NATO Pact in the conduct of genocide on her own people. Therefore, it is the obligation of every Serbian citizen to understand the suffering of others, that, of course, he never participates in the suffering of others, not to glorify anyone who in his name or in the name of the country and the peoples of Serbian and Serbian citizens, whether they are ordinary, under quotes, war crimes, whether they are genocide. It is not only forbidden by law, domestic laws and international law, it is something that is incompatible with the behavior of the beginning of the 21st century and that, of course, not only for Serbia, but for anyone, but this is the Serbian parliament or parliament of the Republic of Serbia, and that is why we here have to guard our cheeks, to condemn everything in the past, by Turks, Ottomans, Pera, Mika or by some Serbian statesmen, under quotes, or some around us, it must be condemned. Future generations, children born in Serbia, any nation, must not be burdened with such a past.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26606	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 31, against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MPs Sasa Radulovic and Aleksandar Stevanovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the addition of the Criminal Code. Does Sasa Radulovic want a word? No, I don't. ) Sasa Radulovic was authorised. (Dusan Pavlovic: He is not in the hall. Then the other one is authorized. That's how you authorized it. Where does it say in the Rules of Procedure? It's funny, but somehow we have to start sticking to the Rules of Procedure, no matter what you're D.J.B. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. New rules cannot be introduced ad hoc. National MPs Sasa Radulovic and Aleksandar Stevanovic proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill amending the Law on the Budgetary System. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dragoljub Micunovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law amending the Law on textbooks. I put the motion to the vote: I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, is in favour – against – against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26607	Since I have made my contribution to trying to heal or to at least have primary health conditions in parliament, let's also do a little bit of money that is, of course, part of an unhealthy society's disease, which is called corruption, it's called unintended, unethical, anti-natural and criminal spending of people's money. To prevent this, I propose that the Law on the Selection of National MPs be amended in Article 49, i.e. to add Article 49a, which reads - It is forbidden to rent a term in all electronic media broadcasts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to submit electoral lists for the transfer of pre-election meetings, political messages and advertisements. What's the point? The point is to protect the citizens of Serbia in two ways. The first way is to prevent the spending of a few dozen million, say well-informed sources, it comes up to 100m euros, tossing money for commercials, and that money is not money from political parties, it is not the money bought by party presidents or party activists, even if it was paid by 40,000 dinars and 50,000, and they have no salaries of 35,000, but it is budget money, and the money from the budget is, of course, the money of Serbian citizens, all those who paid as taxpayers to fill the budget. Not to tell you again or to remind you, since you may have forgotten, that with a few dozen, it means, with one 30, 35% of the money spent on electronic advertising, or advertising in electronic media, we can provide enough budget for the treatment of all children whose treatment is necessary abroad, and that it is no longer a matter of goodwill text message of this or those well-intentioned or unintentioned humanitarian organization or action, but that it is a sure money. Of course, enough kindergartens can be built with the other thirty million for all children who are now without secure housing in Serbia's kindergartens, and the rest of the money can be used for some high-function carriers who, as a result of poor vaccination, remain abnormal for life. I'm asking you to vote. This is a good suggestion.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26608	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 19, against – no one. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Water Act. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - one MP. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Environment. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the House and Building Maintenance Act. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Real Estates. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – draft law amending the Law on the financing of political activities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26609	Thank you very much. This law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in the Official Messenger, if we vote it, and the idea is to delete Article 23 of Article 3 which allows the money to be spent to advertise political parties, candidates, representatives of the electoral lists, and thus to re-expend the money I talked about a moment ago, which can be used seriously. For example, to provide enough money for the treatment of children who need medical assistance abroad, that it is enough to build a sufficient number of places in all schools in Serbia, that there is not a single place in Serbia where a child would remain outside the nursery, and, if necessary, and I see that there are many examples, that if someone is tampered with with water somewhere around Nis, and did not get a vaccine for something normal, against the great goddesses or such, or little goddesses, to help what can be done, so that perhaps next time that medical examination can pass when he is running for a member of parliament. This would not reduce the possibility of Serbian citizens being informed. They don't have to just watch stupid commercials where they go through photoshops and some other newer technologies than, say who, make something that should look like homosapians, and then vote for it. No, there are old, well-checked methods. Let's say round tables. Let's just say, dealing with candidates. And that's every politician in Serbia, unless he's the biggest coward in the history of Serbian politics, unless it's the biggest escape from any moon, whether it's the wars of the '90s, whether it's the bombing, if it's anything. So, just the worst, those who have problems from their childhood and who are now solving the whole nation, means, only the worst people, something the people would call a "fucker", can run away from free political TV duels with their political inexperiences. I know exactly that you recognized that I was talking about the president of a party called progressive or something. And you recognized it well. Let me tell you something -- it is forbidden to advertise on television, and in Great Britain, the Netherlands, Sweden, Norway, France, Germany, Ireland and Spain, and Spain has not recognised Kosovo. Therefore, I invite you to vote for this bill of mys.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26610	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—17, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law on planning and arrangement of space and settlements. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26611	Thank you very much. This, as Serbs would say, is an adjective version of the law adopted in 2003 and should then be an insurmountable obstacle to anyone who wants to build wildly, and, of course, if it's wild construction, it's savages, and it's not a place in Serbia or Europe. Thus, it was an opportunity to introduce order into the area of construction. Of course, it didn't happen, I'm going to do it again, because after a few months, the next government stepped on that bill, first from the post of minister who was responsible for implementing the law, and then from everyone else. The result is that we grow next to Sava, on the Sava dikes, various cottages of various people who understand a lot in the water industry, the type of channel Shanghai-Belgrade-Solun-Atina, but are building against the law. And they're not the only ones. Belgrade authorities say there are 1,200 sites in Belgrade today, which is, of course, a lie, since everything they say is a lie. But, let's say, let's say there are 1,100. I guarantee you, and I call upon the city government to call upon me the unbeliever who suspects their information, to go together from the construction site to the construction site, and to see which builder, who does not have all the necessary permits, and who hides behind his fat associate in some municipality, who only with his thickness and void can stand in his protection. There are all kinds of examples as many as you want. It's not just the Wizard. Let's say, the case of Nemina 8a, on the Sorceress. I've already said, for almost a year, there's a solution to removing an object, with a definition of how it should be removed, what collapses, where it collapses. The man says -- you can't do anything to me, yesterday I was drinking coffee with the director of the police, I think his name is Rebic, and behind me are the highest in the ministries in charge of the area, and I don't care, I'm one of those SNS guys who's allowed to build anything he wants and wherever he wants. Who doesn't believe me, go straight to that address and see if there are any crash documents and if they're still being built today? It's just one example. You've got on Starry, you've got wherever you want. So probably this hallucination of what is presented as the president of the state, and in fact Alexander Vukic, president of the Serbian Progressive Party...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26612	Ambassador!
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26613	... about those apartments that will be built for 500 and some euros, which will be an illegal construction of the level of illegal construction of "Boodrada on Water".
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26614	MP, time. I'm putting it to a vote. I also draw your attention to Article 107(2). Rules of Procedure, it would be your turn to study it. I conclude the vote: for—18, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Your last proposal is to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts, the circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the work of the Action Society for Insurance "Such Insurance" Kragujevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26615	First, let me thank you for the warning that I respect the dignity of the assembly. Believe me, no matter what I sometimes say a harsh word, a word that's unusual, but very precise, it's not the result of my rudeness or the desire to humiliate this high house.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26616	There's no need. It's attitude two. Please explain this about "Such Insurance".
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26617	It's the result of the work that some do, so that's all I'm explaining. In a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts, the circumstances that led to the illegal withdrawal of the work of the Action Society for Insurance "Such Insurance" Kragujevac is one savagery. People, whom I have believed and who have motivated me to make this proposal, say that the highest banking, financial, state authorities have led to one, not privatization, but one ownership transformation, i.e. The sale of this insurance, which was otherwise private, to a foreign buyer who is in line, first row, the largest insurance houses in Europe and the world, and thus to improve relations for the area in Serbia. This means that Serbian citizens get on more favourable terms the opportunity to secure themselves, their health, their property or something about it. If this was prevented in order to retain the monopoly of some "domestic", "successful" insurance companies, which the monopoly uses as any other monopoly in a way that... ... My colleagues, I apologize. My colleagues, may I continue? Thank you. ... It prevents us from paying the most expensive and the worst insurance on this part of the globe. This was prevented by the activities of the National Bank of Serbia, the authorities there and in the text that you received, which has about seven points, explained why the survey committee should be formed. I call upon you to make your contribution to the fact, to the truth about what happened to such insurance. There were four hundred and some people working there, now it's not working. There, the post-inspection found that there were no reasons why the National Bank Commission was called upon to close that insurance, but that it was in good condition and that it was destroyed for petty reasons by those who destroyed it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26618	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bozidar Delic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the point of the draft law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26619	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, my motive for submitting this proposal was to prevent irreparable damage to the Republic of Serbia, which will take place in 2018. Last year, some MPs submitted such a proposal or similar. We heard one today. However, if you remember, before the end of November when the prime minister answered the questions of the MPs in this National Assembly, one of the questions was just the end of the law. The answer she gave to the MP further irritated the pensioners. The prime minister said they never deserved such high pensions, that they were illegally given to them. You, you know, gentlemen, that pensioners don't decide how big their pensions will be. That's what the government decides. Sometimes some law here goes through this Assembly. But what the Fiscal Council warned yesterday, the pensioners decided to exercise their rights in the only possible way. Don't expect the pensioners to get out on the street. When it comes to military pensioners, this is the fourth time they've been illegally reduced by pensions and they've always exercised their rights through court. That's how they're gonna do it this time and all the rest of the pensioners, and that's about 400,000 people. That'll be 400,000 lawsuits. In the draft budget for next year, I did not find that it was envisaged that this law should be abolished and that pensions should return, i.e. their payments to the old ones, which means that some promises that this will be settled in 2018 do not drink water and remain only that - claims and through the court the exercise of pensioner's right. Gentlemen, something that was about 600m euros and was a gift from the pensioner to the state of Serbia and the budget will turn, gentlemen, into the most expensive loan that the state of Serbia has raised, because through the court when the costs are paid... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26620	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojic suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Defence. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26621	What they say in that series -- they want the system to go wrong once, but they won't do it a hundred times. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an extremely important law and this is an extremely important law as well as a system of defense is an extremely important system for us and for the whole country. And right now, let me say on behalf of the DS...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26622	I only ask the MP to stop because Marinika Tepic as an MP is trying to distract me from holding the session. He's throwing it at me. He insults me and I can't have a session. (Marinika Tepic: You're throwing it at me.) So please, I'll give you your time back. That Marinika Tepic would stop doing it as a MP, and I would return you, because she has no right to the Rules of Procedure to insult the president of parliament from the bench. What do you have to discuss with the president of your parliamentary group, who's been looking for certain reasons, which he's been looking for... (Marinika Tepic throws.) )......................................................................................................... You won't be able to get away with these plantings, which he has asked for certain reasons for your MP group to have a priority. And I fulfilled it to him today, and you go ahead and discuss it with him. (Marinika Tepic: You are planting. Here you go. I apologize to the DS MPs for having to endure this.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26623	Should I sign up again?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26624	Sign up again. You've only spent 15 seconds and you'll continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26625	Thank you. I notice that whenever someone from the DS calls to say that either the system doesn't work or the ruling majority has a problem. Okay, it's not up to us. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, above all, members of the Ministry of the Interior, as I said earlier, I don't know if I've been transferred, this is an extremely important law, and this is an extremely important law, such as the defence system, both for us and for the whole country. I must say immediately that I have no expectations, neither I nor the DS, that the SNS will have understanding and will accept these extremely important changes and additions to the Defence Act. We cannot understand that the SNS will vote in favour of the proposed amendments and additions to the Defence Act when they proposed to us as defence minister Alexander Vulin and BIA Director Bratislava Gasic. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provisions of Article 97(1) and points 4, 6 and 9. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which is just scheduled for Serbia to regulate and ensure the security of all its citizens regardless of their religious, national and political membership. The law on defence is primarily insufficiently covered by law and does not provide answers to essential questions. One of the reasons is, above all, the obsolescence of strategic documents, but also the neglect of current security assessments both in the region and globally and in the country in which we live. First of all, it is necessary to establish a framework of the Law on Defence with the Emergency Law. For six years, it has been in the power of the SNS and it is not acceptable and it is not good for the citizens of Serbia, for anyone in this country that we do not have full compatibility between the Law on Defence with the Emergency Law. We have tabled amendments and the addition of eight points of the Defence Act, and I do not really know what it was disputed to adopt Article 1 which says that the basic strategic documents are the Strategy for National Security of the Republic of Serbia, the Strategy for Defence of the Republic of Serbia and the Protocol of the Army of Serbia and documents in the field of non-military exports, risks and threats. Please let the professional SNS people he has in the area of security take a look at this law. I thank the people of the DS who have worked on these amendments and additions to the Defense Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26626	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. (Radoslav Milojic): I didn't have time to vote for myself. That won't help you. Ambassador Bozidar Delic suggested that the session's agenda be complemented - the bill on the rights of fighters and families of the dead and missing fighters. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26627	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia is the only country of all nations that have been created by the SFRY that has no law on fighters. This law, gentlemen, has been waiting 27 years. A law now in force under the name of the Law on the Fundamental Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities and Families of the Dead, only in its name mentions fighters, and further in the text in any letter. So, when it comes to fighters, it can be said that for all these 27 years, it is a category of our citizens waiting for their state and their parliament and government to remember them and finally pass a law that will regulate some of their rights. This law, gentlemen, which I wrote, I can actually tell you that it was dictated by the fighters. As I just said, the pensioners won't go out on the streets in the spring unless there's a law on fighters, the fighters, 400,000 of them, will go out on the streets. I'm not saying this law is good and it's the best, but I'm just warning you that it's time to pass a law on fighters and that people who ask sometimes have only one paper A4 format to write that they fought for their country to make it possible. This law, if you were looking at the end of the country, would cost about 6.5 billion dinars a year, provided that all 400,000 fighters provided adequate documentation to be presented to municipal authorities to be recognised as a fighter. Since it won't be possible to do that, in law you saw that the deadline for this right is 10 years. If we gentlemen have that every year for guarantees that have been activated, which we have given here in the Assembly, certain state-owned enterprises are paid 30 billion dinars, then I believe that those 6.5 billion for 400,000 fighters is not something that the state of Serbia cannot afford.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26628	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I understand, no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26629	Thank you. This is the right law and comes probably at the right moment, amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, which I proposed on behalf of the DS Parliament Club and on my personal behalf, is just guaranteeing to all local self-government that they will not experience the fate of the Caves, Mionica, Negotina and Kostolac. I would be very pleased on behalf of these citizens, who I have repeatedly and all MPs of the DS in conversation with them heard their cry, to tell them exactly in which municipality in these four municipalities will Alexander Vucic be mayor? Since he is a candidate for mayor in all four municipalities, and even he, we believe, cannot be the president of a municipality or mayor in four municipalities at the same time, so the citizens are interested in where he will be president of the municipality, because we don't even think he can perform that function, let alone the one he's in. Ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law contained in the provision of Article 97(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the DS, proposes to amend and supplement the Law on Local Self-Government, because the life of all citizens is equally important to us, whether they live in Surdulica or in Subotica, or in the Kingdom. The DS therefore proposes to return to all local self-government what the SNS took away from them only during 2016, to return five billion dinars to local self-government, how much SNS took from them. The European Charter that Serbia ratified in 2007, which you were against at the time, when you were in a radical uniform, is clear now and why you were against this European Charter, guarantees all local self-government political, administrative and financial independence. Almost any local self-government in Serbia, in which, unfortunately for you citizens, the SNS leadership has neither political nor financial independence. Today, local self-government is commanded by some boasting Malovic, some SNS co-ordinators who are not from these municipalities, were not elected by citizens for these functions. Half of the budget revenues go to municipalities, while in Serbia and cities and municipalities and the AP Vojvodina only 10.6% of total budget revenues. You want the SNS listeners to make even bigger listeners, to have them come to the SNS headquarters, to tell them what they're going to allow their citizens, what budget they're going to create, and what they're going to plan for next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26630	I'm putting it to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find the proposal not accepted. Ambassador Radoslav Milojic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Information and Media. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26631	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the honourable citizens of Serbia, this is an extremely important law. Please pay particular attention to these proposed amendments to the Public Information Act. Unfortunately, the SNS wants to shut down every critical opinion, every critical show, and wants to keep every man who thinks freely, free to say he doesn't have one single second in the media. The Serbian Progressive Party records unrecorded terror against media who, according to their estimates, do not want to report as the SNS ordered. You've managed to shut down "The impression of the week", you've managed to shut down "The Vranjski novine", you've managed to shorten every show that doesn't praise your false results, your false successes, while in Serbia it's worse and worse. What are you afraid of? If you're not afraid of anything, why don't you pass this law? Why not allow all political parties in power and opposition equal treatment on all media in Serbia? Why don't you go on a television show where there won't be three members of the SNS, and one member of the opposition, that, in an argument, in a democratic and civilized way, we exchange views on the current situation in Serbia, which is becoming more difficult and more difficult and worse for citizens of Serbia who are extremely difficult to live? During 2013, when you from the SNS had absolute authority with your SPS colleagues, 23 attacks on journalists were recorded. Look wonders, during 2017, faster, stronger, better SNS, 54 attacks on journalists and news associations have been recorded. It's the freedom of the media he's talking about, for which the SNS stands, and it's inadmissible in 2017. If you're not afraid of anything, why don't you tell us who your ass is? The SNS beatings that are on Alexander Vukic's inauguration...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26632	Member of the Commission, please explain the draft law supplementing the Public Information Act and the media.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26633	Yeah, right. I'm talking about freedom of the media when free journalists come to report inauguration, and SNS beatings harass them on that same inauguration.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26634	The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Public Information and the media does not correspond to your argument by matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26635	I ask you to adopt these amendments and supplement the law, so that, God forbid, in Serbia no more new Lav Pajkic would appear.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26636	I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please, Article 157(2) applies to everyone. Please don't put the names of the press in front of the parliament, like it or not. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the Social Protection Act. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26637	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party is proposing 50 amendments and additions to the Law and 27 polling committees, and that is all in the interest of Serbian citizens, but I will be free to say that this is one of the most important amendments to the Social Protection Act. The Democratic Party proposes three concrete measures, which are to provide all students whose parents do not work with free transportation from home to school, to provide all students whose parents do not work with free textbooks and free lunches for all students whose parents do not work. About 50,000 children covered by primary and secondary education at this time in Serbia are hungry. Fifty thousand children are starving, while you SNS are laughing at it and laughing because you are sitting in your comfortable chairs, in your cabinets, and in your armored cars, while our children are starving today. That's not the kind of Serbia that DS wants and what DS fought for. Unfortunately, we have an example of a boy from Moll, who, first of all, left the third grade high school in Vienna, because he had no money for a ticket, for a ride from home to school. Then, unfortunately, that boy committed suicide. These are the facts we face today in Serbia. In 2015, unfortunately, the share of children in Serbia's total population was only 17.4%, making us one of the oldest nations in Europe. The DS therefore proposes another concrete measure, which is that all parents who cannot achieve the right to become parents are provided with free out-of-body fertilisation on the cost of the state. If you say there's no money for it, there's money for it, you cut only corruption and mob deals with your party friends from the SNS and they'll have enough money for both children and parents. Serbia is the leader in the region, as you say from the SNS, but unfortunately Serbia is the leader in the region at the risk of poverty. There is Serbia first in Europe. You can build bridges, you can build roads, but we can't all let our children be hungry together. Fifty thousand children each day, covered by primary and secondary education in Serbia, are hungry, and this is a devastating policy and a devastating SNS policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26638	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Don't say you didn't vote for your proposal, because you're fighting. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for – 20, against – no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in Novi Sad, in connection with the privatisation of ATP Vojvodina and the construction of an inter-urban bus station in Novi Sad. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26639	Thank you, President. Namely, you may know the presidents that you were mayor of the New Now. You may also know that at that time you concluded a contract that the Supreme Cassation Court later found harmful. That at the time of the contract you knew that you were doing an illegal thing and that you were conscious and knowing what you were doing did to Novi Sad, for now worth 4m euros, as already removed from the New Sad City account, and in the perspective and much more because this is just one of the lawsuits filed against the City of Novi Sad because of this harmful and how the Supreme Cassation Court in its 2013 verdict says, aware of the action. You're wondering why the City of Novi Sad, when you weren't mayor, didn't take any steps to prevent that damage. He did not take it because the recognition that the contract was harmful would automatically mean that Novi Sad knowingly concluded a contract with the businessman, Ili Devic. Unfortunately, you did it as mayor of Novi Sad, not as a private person, Maja Gojkovic, because I say, unfortunately, you probably closed as a private person, 4 million euros could have been taken off your private account, and this is because you didn't make it private, but because you made that harmful contract as Mayor of Novi Sad, and the money is being taken off the account of the citizens of Novi Sad, who are financing that budget from their incomes, from their incomes, from the taxes they pay, and financed by Mrs Gojković, what? They finance that during the time you were mayor, you made a contract with Mr. Devic to move the entire inter-urban traffic in Novi Sad to his private bus station, which he had made for the occasion, which you wanted not only to harm the New Sad City budget, but also to make it impossible for the city's transport company to perform this role in the future, to transfer it to your business partner at the time. What we're talking about isn't some front page of the tabloid, this is the Supreme Cassation Court ruling. We believe that the Assembly should declare this because you, Mrs Gojkovic, are embarrassing the National Assembly because you have knowingly and deliberately done damage to the New Sad City budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26640	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Dusan Elezovic could be the head of that commission, here I am to help you. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 22, against – no one. Here, I helped with my voice. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the Law on Police. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26641	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of Serbia, the Democratic Party is proposing amendments and additions to the Police Act. The Democratic Party is proposing amendments to the Law on Police because the lives of all citizens, regardless of the action they are dealing with, are equally important to us. The state of police is extremely bad. The state of police is so bad that the SNS paid 10% first by cutting salaries, that it honored members of the police with a reduction of 10,000 dinars, as a bonus as each member of the police had until 2012 because of the weight of the job he was carrying out, and then the SNS took away 150 dinars from both the police and the MUP. For a 150 dinar daily, a member of the police can buy a muffin and yogurt. It's a shame what the SNS brought down to the police in 2017. Then you complain because the military is on strike, because the police are on strike, because they're on strike by the Post Office workers. Two key changes and additions to the Police Act. The first is that the ministry must determine the needs of the police system and, in accordance with that, personnel schools at the Police Academy. We must not allow young, educated, educated, professional people, who finish the Police Academy, not to be admitted to permanent employment at the Ministry of the Interior, but hired by some types of suspicious morale, who deal with a suspicious business, because these children have nowhere to work and the state invests in their education. You are probably doing this to be able to receive Dijana Hrkalovic, who cheers and dresses at the police station, by police stations, by the Ministry of the Interior. It's a shame in 2017. The second point of key changes and additions to the Police Act is that the Police Act, Article 172 point 2. The law on police is destroying the presuppression of innocence. This means that every honest cop caught in the theft and theft of a member of the SNS gets criminal charges against himself and automatically stays away from work and is automatically away from that task. (Vladimir Orlic: And he gets a muffin.) I really don’t know what you’re throwing it for, but it’s about your seriousness and how you care about the members of the Ministry of the Interior who have the worst salary in history, who do extremely hard work and who can’t feed their family because you took away their receipts.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26642	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for -16, against - no one with abstentions is present. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Serbian Army. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26643	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of Serbia, I hope you can see this mockery by the SNS and members of the police and members of the army. I proposed on behalf of the DS a bill amending and supplementing Serbia's Military Law. The proposed changes and additions have 18 points. I also thank General Malinovic and General Radojicic and other people who have proposed these amendments and additions to the Law on the Serbian Army. The constitutional basis for the adoption of this law is contained in the provision of Article 97(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and, above all, it is necessary to bring the Military Act into line with the Defence Act. For six years, the SNS has, unfortunately, been in power and we do not fully comply with the Military Act with the Defence Act. What is controversial about these changes and the additions of these 18 points that DS is proposing to change? I know he's at SNS Vulin's most professional in the security sector, especially for the military, but I'm asking you to find someone a little more professional than him to look at these proposed 18 changes and supplement the dots. The military was once the most trusted institution of citizens, and how is the situation in the military today? The Serbian Progressive Party changed five military ministers in six years. What's symptomatic is that every new SNS minister is twice as bad as the previous SNS minister. While you SNS are laughing from your armored cars, with three or four salaries each, today 80% of Serbian Army members with less income than the average earnings in Serbia. Seventy-two per cent of the Serbian military who left Serbia's military did so at a personal request. In the past year, eight hundred professional soldiers fled the army with their heads, no matter what, left the army at a personal request. Seventy percent of military civilians have an average profit of 22,000 dinars. With constant income these people are on the verge of poverty and the edge of existence. Can you tell us what you did after the pay cut and the daily cuts to the soldiers? You've introduced payment classes that will further cut their salary that you want to raise, as you say only declaratively, which means that soldiers will have even less pay. On July 31st 2016, you promised two new Russian helicopters. Here, after a year and a half, you're going to get those two same helicopters again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26644	Thank you very much. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—17, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding unauthorized listening by the Military Security Agency, which, without a court decision, has been spying on political parties, leaders, trade unions and individual judges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26645	Thank you, Your Honor, but since we are holding the DS to order and to the law, I ask you to determine the quorum first and foremost, since the quorum is not in our knowledge, and to draw out the cards of MPs who are not in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26646	I can't do that. The service can do that. Here, to determine the quorum, how many people are present in the O.R. Please look only at the Rules of Procedure, who can seek the determination of the quorum. Here, I'll make sure you don't complain all the time, but it can only be the head of the parliamentary group or authorized, and at this point, the head of the parliamentary group. So, young colleague Milojicic, please don't ask for it anymore. There are 137 MPs present. We can move on. Please, the abuse of the Rules of Procedure has been done, you have no right to do so. I guess you know, sitting next to you the creator of that Rules of Procedure. You want to talk or you don't want to talk? Don't keep the MPs who want to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26647	President, I'm really asking you to tell the service that the MPs who aren't in the O.R. are taking out the cards. There are dozens of cards, and MPs aren't here. I don't know, can you vote from a distance? You haven't determined the quorum. Can you determine the quorum or don't you want to do that, that I'm talking about the law, about the committee of inquiry? Unfortunately, we see that there is no law here and we see that the President of Parliament does not want to determine the quorum. We see the cards of MPs who are not in the O.R. But, well, you probably have a problem with the polling committees and the proposed amendments and additions to the laws proposed by the DS. I, for the sake of respect for justice and justice, because you are violating the Rules of Procedure, will not explain this law, to show you my disagreement with the way you conduct the session and do not lead it in a legitimate and worthy manner of a parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26648	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -13, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojičić suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities regarding the introduction of bankruptcy in the Shining Vehicles factory "Gosa" from Smederjevska Palanka.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26649	Thank you. The Democratic Party is Serbia's most fierce and fiercest opposition to the SNS, but the Democratic Party is never and will be an opposition to the citizens of Serbia and to the good things that are in the interest of Serbian citizens. So I'm sorry, I have to say, which I was right a month ago when I was asking questions here about the "Gosa" rail vehicle factory in Smederjevska Palanca, when I prayed to everyone from the ruling majority and the entire opposition, and thank them for supporting me personally and the citizens of Smederjevska Palanca and the workers of "Gosa", but unfortunately you from SNS did not do so. I am really sorry that I was right when I said that the prime minister with her brother, with the SNS authorities, would ruin the "Gossa", which no one has been able to destroy in a hundred years. Unfortunately, what we predicted happened. The information we had, unfortunately for the citizens of Smederevska Palanka and for 400 employees, 400 families you and the SNS left out of work, unfortunately, we were right. Is it possible you don't want to accept the committee of inquiry? Is it possible that you allowed the owners of the company to sell the company to a phantom company from Cyprus, that this phantom firm would sell itself in just a month, its part, the company Capital Consuling from Zemun? Is it possible that in such a judicial system, which destroys the SNS every day, in just 12 days, we will receive both the trial and the date of the trial and receive the first session, in the first court session of the epilogue and “Gosa” is sent to bankruptcy? Who cares about 400 workers? Who bothered you, besides the SNS, that these workers had work to do for the next two years? Who bothered with the contract that the workers were supposed to sign with the Iranian firm and provide themselves with a job for the next five years? It's a job to produce thousands of new cars. You ruined FAP, you ruined "Gossa", you promised us five years ago to produce "mercedes" in Serbia. Your lies and your fairy tales of SNS are no longer believed by Serbian citizens. On this occasion, I promise you, on behalf of all the dissuaded citizens, on behalf of all the dissuaded workers, on behalf of the dissuaded workers, that you from the SNS will answer, not before me, but before the law, when the law is respected in this country, and that will be the moment when we send you to the political junkyard of history.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26650	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The National Parliament of Aleksandra Jerkov proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26651	Thank you. The reason why I propose this law has already been held for several sessions in a row will be again or tomorrow when we begin a budget debate obvious to all MPs. As is known, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribes that the AP Vojvodina budget belongs to 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget and we have two times each year when the budget and the rebalancing, when it is there, a crisis over what actually falls within the 7%. Although the previous governments have never respected this provision, which is why the Republic of Serbia owes the AP Vojvodina hundreds of millions of euros, the SNS has gone a step further. The law on the budgetary system, which was one of the first laws then adopted by the Government of Ivica Dacic, and in fact by Alexander Vukic, has defined that AP Vojvodina does not belong to even 7% of the income, or 7% of the expenditure, which was earlier interpretations, but rather 7% of the tax revenues of the Republic of Serbia. It is not 7% and it is clear to anyone who has completed at least a few grades of primary school that 7% of tax revenues cannot be 7% of the Republic of Serbia's budget and that Vojvodina does not receive the funds it owns under the Constitution. Of course, there is always one of the state-run politicians, last time it was the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic, who was then in the role of prime minister, who spoke with a speech about Vojvodina getting some money from Serbia and we should be satisfied because we got more than the last time. Well, you know what, he doesn't ask Vojvodina to get anything from anyone, we're asking you just to stop taking us, to take us homeless, to take us past the law, and not to return what the Constitution requires you to return. These are no money for the government of Vojvodina, for politicians in Vojvodina, for the parties in Vojvodina, these are the money the AP Vojvodina used for farmers, for women, for unemployed, for refugees, for socially endangered, for maternity purposes, for helping young people start their own business. You don't want it to go on because you're unwittingly taking money from the AP Vojvodina. The law on funding the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina is one of the ways in which the Vojvodina gets at least part of what belongs to it and what you illegally take away.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26652	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – 14 against. I find that this proposal has not been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on additions to the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26653	I'm sorry, Mr President, I didn't quite understand what the proposal was on the agenda. I wanted to ask you exactly what you read, since I didn't hear you. Criminal code. Thank you. This is the law we have proposed, as MPs of the DS, I am explaining it personally, and in the last session, it was proposed by DS President Dragan Sutanovac. The law refers to the confiscation of registered offenders in the family of weapons that they acquired legally, as a few days ago a man who was registered as a bully was detained, released from a police station and killed his wife and himself. So we could have prevented one crime only if you would be willing to put this proposal on the agenda. We told you that we could save dozens and dozens of lives from the moment that Dragan Sutanovac proposed it to date, because this law has nothing to do with politics, and you don't put it on the agenda just because it was proposed by the president of the DS. It is a matter of preventing violence and death outcomes that are growing more and more frequently in Serbia. So, someone who's legally acquired a weapon, we suggest that he be taken away from him if he registers as a bully, or if he's a registered bully in the family. There's really nothing else here but worry about how and how we can protect someone's life tomorrow. We said we wouldn't explain this proposal, we'd just let it adopt and we wouldn't make any political campaign out of it. Sixty-four lives we could have saved from the moment this law was proposed until today when you kept refusing to put it on the agenda. I don't know how tomorrow you can go out to some family with a tragic look whose member tragically lost his life through a bully in that family with a legally acquired weapon that the police did not take from them when he was arrested. Now, that's what the question is for you who represent the ruling majority and who ultimately decide to bring this kind of life stuff into the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26654	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on the termination of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26655	Thank you. The government of the Republic of Serbia has made an agreement with the United Arab Emirates to allow individual tycoons from the United Arab Emirates to rob Serbian citizens, and I assume that they would share the loot with those of the ruling majority to reach that prey. So, if we have several tycoons, one of them is called Alabar, who used the interstate agreement, came to Belgrade, along with the president of the then government, Aleksandr Vukic, promised citizens a million and 800 thousand squares of residential business space, but to acquire a Sava amphitheater, or land worth a billion euros. He received a billion-euro plot, and in four years he did not complete a single residential building. It will not be inhabitable even in March next year, when the Belgrade elections, and meanwhile it has begun to sink. Citizens who have reduced pensions, whose salaries have been reduced, have so far given Alabara 200m euros to behave irresponsibly with their money, to invest in so-called. The "Belgrade on Water" project, which is paid by citizens, and if you are really something and ends up, will benefit exclusively from an investor, i.e. a tycoon from the United Arab Emirates. We are now proposing that this interstate agreement be completely abolished, so that citizens of Serbia who have been impoverished for these five years of your authority would not yet pay your tycoons their failed projects. We think it's fair, that everyone bears responsibility, financially above all for their stupidity. People can't pay for other people's stupidity. They paid a lot of other people's nonsense in the '90s, and now it's important that in the 21st century we help and go out to meet those citizens who have been poored in the '90s, who have been poored in the last five years, that they no longer pay for other people's nonsense and failed projects with their poor bills. And that's our proposal, for the simple reason we ask you to do something once for the citizens of Serbia, not just for those who give you some percentage in some suspicious business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26656	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by points – draft law on additions to the Labour Act. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26657	Thank you. This is more popularly called the law on the employment of young people who see absolutely no future in Serbia, leaving this country. As you have the opportunity to see the average age of citizens of Serbia, we are growing older and older society. No, just because there are fewer newborn babies from year to year, but also because young people are mass and mass leaving Serbia. They get an opportunity in other countries and societies to use both their knowledge and their energy. They separate themselves from their families, separate themselves from their friends, from their boyfriends and girls. Other companies give them much more favourable conditions, other companies use their knowledge, and ultimately these foreign states grant them citizenship. Serbia thus runs out of the most valuable resources, which are people, these are people with knowledge and energy, and these are primarily young people in Serbia. Many generations that have completely disappeared, which have been ruined in the 1990s, the war years, when many here from the ruling majority at that time have advocated war, some have been very proud of crimes. Now they have come to power again and are trying to make Serbia's youth unhappy again with some new problems, which is not a concern for those who want to school in Serbia, for those who want to start their families in Serbia, for those who are looking for a job, and cannot come to work unless they are members of the SNS. It's something that's devastating for the future of this country. I know it's much more important that someone is in the chair and that they take more care of their privileges, of the salaries they receive, of the boards of directors, but eventually it will come at the expense of you who don't care about it. Therefore, the SNS will, of course, be the most responsible with its policy, because young people today are largely defined to leave this country because they do not see an absolute future in Serbia, in cities and municipalities that become deserts where only criminals have privileges, where the law only does not apply to them, while young people are absolutely marginalized and absolutely no one cares about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26658	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 18, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26659	This is the second part of the youth employment law because we wanted to give every young man an equal chance of getting a job. The curses that come from the other side only talk about how many young people are getting so upset today, but I assure you that young people like you think are not cost. It's an investment in our country, it's an investment in Serbia. Serbia must have young people who are happy to get to work, otherwise Serbia will be weak. They won't have any cops or soldiers. They won't have a country run by people who are capable, who have knowledge and energy. For this reason, I assure you that if the state gave just 50m euros in youth employment, many young people would certainly decide to stay in this country. They wouldn't grab for foreign scholarships from other states, foreign states that will offer them not only work but citizenship tomorrow. Many people who have left Serbia already have a stay. In these five years, dozens and dozens have gone, if not hundreds of thousands of people. Eighty thousand people will leave in 2017, and at the end of the year you will get another moritoring that speaks about how defeated policy is economic, cultural, social, social, each by the SNS that made the biggest exodus right towards our citizens. They are citizens who have decided to flee this country because they have absolutely no chance of getting to work fairly. You cannot come to work in Serbia today if you are not a member of a party or if you are not a relative, friend, godfather or brother of any president today in Serbia. Now, it's a shame for our society, and it's going to cost us, and we're going to pay it not only with our beginnings in Europe, but we're going to pay it hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros that we don't have, and we're going to have to do it again, and we're going to have to increase the debt again, and we're going to have to sell both the country and the property of Serbia and the resources of the buds, because we're not going to be able to repay and pay back everything you've put this country, this people and, above all, young people in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26660	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law on the suspension of the law on the temporary regulation of the way pensions are paid. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26661	This is a law that speaks of the dignity of those who have earned their pension honestly. Those pensions made during one's life span have been reduced because these people are obviously not to the extent of those who are in power today, particularly Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, who is personally responsible for the kidnapping of someone's property. Seven hundred thousand pensioners have reduced pensions. You said it was to open up a new job. No new job has opened. No one's grandson or grandson got a job. Pensioners don't have to be treated today. They can't drive cars because they don't have money to maintain cars, they don't have money to fuel, they don't have money to pay taxes. They don't have the money to pay for electricity. They don't have the money to pay the info. They don't have the money to pay for food and they don't eat healthy and high-quality food today and mortality has increased since you reduced pensions to pensioners in Serbia. You offer them discounts in case of death. You want to bury them with a discount, those who have been educated, those who have built this country, those who have been in an earlier time a middle class or the beginning of a middle class in Serbia, Yugoslavia, who represented the pillar of this society. They've been paid back so they can't even complain about a pension reduction. You didn't even find it appropriate to give them solutions. The PIO Fund won't give them solutions, because the SNS won't even let them complain about cutting pensions. Shame on you, gentlemen of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26662	Ambassador, you have exceeded every possible measure of your address to Parliament. Ambassador Bozovic, you always cause trouble. Every now and then, you hold back, and then you start to insult. You can't talk like that. Secondly, direct address to anyone is absolutely forbidden in parliament. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I said, come on, they'll say I can't listen to insults on my own account, but don't do that. I'm putting the motion to a vote. (Balsa Bozovic: Vote for my proposal. Don't affect the MPs. Let them vote on their consciences. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—17 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point - Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the establishment of public interest and special procedures for the expropriation of the construction permit for the realisation of the project "Belgrade on Water". The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26663	"Belgrade on Water" is the biggest shame of this government and this government. What Mirjana Markovic once suggested in the 1990s, this is what SNS and Aleksandar Vukic suggested today. What JUL once suggested, this is what the SNS is proposing today, and these are imaginary projects, these are lies, it is an insult to citizens that some new Belgrade centre, the new identity of the city, will be built there. Belgrade, which is several thousand years old in its history, does not need different cities in this climate, a new identity of the city to create someone who is considered the most successful student in a university. The city of Belgrade has its symbols. It doesn't take some Alabar from Dubai to create new symbols in the city of Belgrade. The city of Belgrade has its museums. The city of Belgrade has its own streets. The city of Belgrade has its own history. The city of Belgrade has its own tradition. The city of Belgrade has a proud history, has urbanists who are world-renowned, has architects who are world-renowned, has artists, has their own culture. Now, you can't change that because it occurred to you to make Dubai of Belgrade. I'm really sorry that there are no people in the ruling majority who have been able to see something in the world, so when they were invited by a shake, as the most successful students, that they then looked at several buildings, so they said, "Egg," which would be wonderful to this and Belgrade. It wouldn't be wonderful. A matter of ethics whether you will tread upon your cultural heritage and your cultural heritage. It's a matter of ethics. Why isn't a skyscraper being built in Senta? Why isn't a 100-story solitary built in Subotica? Would the citizens of Subotica and Sente be proud of it? Once you were in power, in the middle of the Zrenjanin you built a building that was empty today, because you wanted to mark that time. It's a matter of ethics. You can laugh all you want. You were both in the past regime and in this regime. You've always been a radical, because there's no way that consciousness can get to you. If you go there, that culture can't be admitted to you because people who don't know ethics and that's your biggest punishment. (The People's MPs resent)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26664	Ambassador, calm down. We're not at a rally. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -14, against – there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Survey Committee to determine the facts about the role of the highest authorities in the reconstruction of Slavic Square and the construction of a music fountain. Do you want to explain that? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26665	Thank you. The basic question is why did someone come up with the idea of taking a project of the city government that was ruled by a democratic party, when it was envisaged that, of course, along with the Socialists in the city, when it was intended to make underground passages under Slavia, so that it would be much more security for citizens and pedestrians, on the one hand, and faster traffic flow from the other side? Whether there's going to be a fountain, whether there's going to be some installation, whether it's going to be a monument, whether it's going to be just one piece of green surface, that was a completely secondary question. The primary thing is the safety of people, underground passes and faster traffic flow, which today does not exist in Slavia. We asked how it was possible that no tender was called. How is it possible that no competition for an idea solution has been called? The City of Belgrade cannot, with its tradition, get a fountain from some site, a type fountain that someone has seen in Dubai. Then, it's very important how and how it participates as a serious city, the world's metropolis, how artists are called on to give the original solution, whether it's a fountain, whether it's an installation, whether it's someone's monument. All in all, a fountain was made. We heard him play and sing, and then we saw loudspeakers hooked up to some gangster next to her. That fountain costs 2m euros. We asked what cost two million euros. Can Goran Vesic explain why a twom-euro fountain was paid for? Can that tell us Sinisha Mali? Can anyone in this room explain how the same fountain, which costs 500,000 euros on the site, could cost you two million euros? You charge everything four or five times as expensive. How is it possible that in any business, in any asphalting, you have to fit in in, you have to rob and kidnap, and therefore the polling board, to see why the director of the music program of the fountain paid 150,000 dinars a month. That fountain also has a director.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26666	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 15 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Serbia's Army. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26667	This is a very important issue concerning the Army of the Republic of Serbia, an army that is humiliated and disgraced and an army that is absolutely guided by a definitive disappearance, which has no basic means of working, which has no uniform, which has no boots, which has no winter equipment, especially for that part of the army that is on the border on a daily basis, which guards Serbia, which guards the border of the Republic of Serbia and that is a great shame, gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament. Dragoljub Jovanovic, MP at the AVNOJ Assembly, said on the draft budget the ruling majority at the time – how are you not ashamed that the army, which freed the country, would be naked and barefoot, and that, on the other hand, the officials would bathe in wealth and privileges? That's why he was sentenced to decades in prison, and you sentence me if you think it's necessary, but I'm going to ask you the same question – are you ashamed to bathe in privileges... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26668	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding suspected transactions of the Serbian Progressive Party, as well as the suspicion of money laundering during the 2014 parliamentary elections and the 2017 presidential elections. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts on the purchase of more than 700 new passenger vehicles of the stamp “Skoda” of the Ministry of Interior. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the fact of how Serbian Defence Minister Aleksandar Vulin acquired an apartment in Belgrade of 107m2 worth 244,620 euros. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the top authorities in relation to the investment investment investment project in agriculture between the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 13 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of Belgrade's top authorities regarding the signing of the Treaty on the Construction of the Burnery in Vinca. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts relating to trade in human organs in the territory of KIM, etc. "Yellow House". I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts regarding the privatisation of the Kruševa factory IMK "14. October’. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances that led to human casualties and material and immaterial flood damage in Serbia's territory in 2014. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts about the privatisation of the PKK. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to identify the facts and circumstances that led to the burning of the US and the Federal Republic of Germany, which was attacked on 21 February 2008, during the protest "Kosovo is Serbia", as well as responsibility for both the former and current holders of the highest state functions. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in connection with the construction of a Chinese company's "Mei ta" factory in Baric. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 14, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the signing of the Treaty on the Water Project "Belgrade on Water". I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—13, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling board to determine the facts about the role and responsibility of the highest authorities in relation to the Treaty of the Republic of Serbia and the company "Al Raw International Investment". I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts, circumstances and responsibilities for falsely showing the state of the aflatoxin level in milk and corn, which caused major material and immaterial damage in the Republic of Serbia in 2013. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 14, against – no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities regarding the signing of the Treaty between the Serbian Government and Etihad Ervejz on the establishment of the Air Transport Company "Er Serbia". I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances regarding possible abuse and corruption within the framework of the "Smederevo Zelezare" 2015, with a loss of around 150m euros annually. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to identify the facts and circumstances of the existence of private listening centres, which are in the service of the highest state offices in the Republic of Serbia. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balsa Bozovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts and circumstances of the way the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabaković, has acquired a four-bedroom apartment in Novi Sad, which, on 30 November 2012, the company Telecom Serbia took over the remaining debt to mention an apartment of 77,700 euros. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Balša Bozovic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on dual education. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Veroljub Stevanovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the survey board to determine the facts on the role and responsibilities of the highest authorities in relation to the liquidation procedure "Such Insurance". Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26669	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope we don't share on this matter. Believe me, there's no reason for this to happen, for tensions to be the way they've been so far, because I simply don't see the reason and the interference that we have a committee of inquiry on this matter. There's no politics, no politics, no plantings, no evil intentions. There is a need for this thing to be resolved, to determine the facts and this veil of secrets from this story to be removed. The story "Such Insurance" was current, you see that it is still current and will be current. That's how it's gonna be until the moment things settle down. And the story is, indeed, everyone in this country sees it, both sad and ugly. She's sad for all of us, for you, for us. I'm sure she's sad for you, too. She's sad that more than 400 people lost their jobs, on the justice of God, and she's ugly because of what happened, and also some things that are very clear, quite clear right now. So either it's an evil intention, or it's a mistake that's so harsh that it's incomprehensible. If it's a rough mistake, how is it possible for the NBS to allow itself to make such a stupid mistake? If it's intent, then, evil intent, whose evil intention is it? Either it's the result of a request from the former president of the state, as the media writes, which is why I ask for this to be resolved, that hundreds of thousands of euros be paid to the foundation, so this is payback, or maybe it's an evil intention that one exceptional house, perhaps the best in these places, should take over "Sucho" in just a few days, or maybe it's some third, fifth or sixth evil intention? Indeed, it is necessary for this committee of inquiry to determine these facts. What might be basic and should be said is the moment that it happened. Therefore, the “Such Insurance” permit was withdrawn at the time when it should not have happened. Apparently, no technical reserves have been filled. To remind you, it may happen if you are not ready, able and strong to cover the liabilities you have from your assets or from some other conditions, income, etc. At that point, according to what appeared as data, "Such insurance" was covered with technical reserves 92%, much more than others. Later, other things were identified, that more than fourm euros in such property was worth more than its liabilities, and even later, it was increased as a figure. So, please, really please, this is a common question, let's form this survey board.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26670	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—17, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dejan Nikolic proposed that the agenda be complemented by points – Proposal for a law supplementing the law on value added tax. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Dejan Nikolic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the basis of the education and education system. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Agricultural Land. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26671	Thank you, President. When the Law on Agricultural Land was adopted in this Assembly, to the soul in the previous assembly, but in the same composition of the ruling coalition and less than the same MPs sitting here today, we in the DS warned that this law would produce negative consequences for farmers and that thousands of families, who exclusively live from renting state-owned agricultural land, would lead to a situation that they had nothing more to live on. We said it, you said it wouldn't be like that. We were saying, since the law says that the procedure won't be transparent, that the couples won't be able to bid on that land, that they won't know who gets the land, why they get the land, how many countries they get, what country they get. Everything we said back then turned out to be right. The country's first division has caused very negative reactions to the pair, completely justified negative reactions by the pair, as the best agricultural land in Zrenjanin and in the grain ata has won the company "Tenis", without any possibility of domestic couples competing for that land and trying to maybe rent it. The second part of the land is never gonna hit, a council member belonging to the SNS coalition Aleksandar Vucic, who founded the company that got the land only 15 days before he got thousands of hectares of the best agricultural land in Zrenjanin, probably in Vojvodina and quite safely in Serbia. The country, which is irrevocably divided by business partners and SNS committees, is not a country belonging to the SNS. It's a country that generations of duke couple have taken from the swamp to turn it into what this land is today, which is the most fertile land in Europe. We begged you then, and now we warn you, don't share agricultural land with your business partners and your tycoons which is not yours. When that land will be returned to the pairs to which it belongs, and when you will answer for this theft.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26672	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be completed by the point – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on textbooks. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Zdravko Stankovic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Enterprises. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. The National MP, Aleksandra Jerkov, proposed that the session agenda be complemented by points - Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26673	Thank you. Dear colleagues, yesterday the Council of Europe warned Serbia again because it did not adopt a law on missing babies. We have again come into the situation to be ashamed that since 2013, we are unable to fulfil the obligation we have as a member of the Council of Europe and that since 2013, we have been unable to comply with the European Court of Human Rights ruling that Serbia must adopt a law on missing babies. Let us not be ashamed, that they must warn us of something that we ourselves would have to do, if we know why we were running for MPs. Don't let us come into a situation to be warned because we don't do, not just a thing that is our duty as members of the Council of Europe, but rather a thing that is our obligation as human beings who have compassion, who have compassion, who have a basic sense of justice, honesty and truth. By amending the Criminal Code I have been proposing for the third or fourth year in a row, I am really ashamed to count how many times I have begged you to pass this law, I suggest that only one change be introduced into the Criminal Code, which is that the crime of stealing babies does not go out of date. Each and every one of you, if anyone saw the parents who, I believe, and you, because they really don't make a difference between us in political parties, they keep writing to each other, who can tell their colleagues how shaken these encounters are, they can tell their colleagues how terrible it is when they look you in the eyes and ask you – well, why you won't adopt it, how terrible it is when they talk to you about what kind of bureaucratic turrets, peripetia, traps, and I don't know what complications they're going through in one single attempt to figure out what happened to their children that they've been told they died. Don't let us do them any more wrong, not because of the Council of Europe, not because of the European Court of Human Rights, but because of all these people who can't learn the truth, and among other things, in the past four years, they can't find out because you don't allow it. Please vote for this bill. It's a shame if you don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26674	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—18, against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on textbooks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26675	Thank you. The law on textbooks is one of the laws promised by Minister Sarcevic. He announced the adoption of a brand-new law. That was the reason why he didn't accept the discussion of amendments and additions to the law. If the Law on textbooks will look like the other laws that Minister Sarcevic has adopted so far, he actually proposed, and this Assembly adopted from the field of education, we already know about the law now. First, it is likely that against the law will be absolutely everyone in this country who is involved in education. Against him will be teachers, parents, students, National Educational Councils, Academy and all others who are involved in education, think about education, write about education, participate in the process of education. The only person who will be in favour of the law is probably Minister Sarcevic, and I suppose a prime minister who will not normally be interested or will be interested in what the law says, because it has become her universal response to everything that Minister Sarcevic is doing. Another thing that we already know in advance about this law if it looks like laws that have been adopted from the field of education so far, is that it will probably write that Minister Sarcevic himself writes all the textbooks, because he has given himself such competences in other laws that it is really only left in the Law on textbooks to write that he will personally write all the textbooks, because by other laws dealing with this matter and controls them, and approves and adopts their plan, etc. The third thing that we know in advance about the Law on textbooks that is in preparation, if it resembles other laws adopted from the field of education, it will be full of elements that open the space for corruption, and the minister will decide this, and certain publishers will be in a better position than others, and, of course, the blame for corruption will always be on someone else, not the minister and ministry. The last thing, since I don't have any more time, which we know about the Bookbooks Act if it looks like other laws adopted so far, is that the fault for anything that doesn't matter in that law will be brought down to teachers. Perhaps they could have been the school's director by now, but they will now be people of the free choice of Minister Sarcevic, likely to blame teachers who so far have been the sole culprits in all speeches, laws, exhibitions and views of Minister Sarcevic. We suggest a different model. I'd love to talk about it, but since we're not talking about anything, we probably won't talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26676	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I understand, no proposal has been accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that we'll be working after 6:00 today. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26677	Thank you. Perhaps colleagues have had the opportunity to see, and those who are members of the Education Committee, I hope, have had the opportunity to see, although our president has skillfully avoided passing us a memo, that SANU, Konus, university rectors, university deans, academics, professors, scientists, scientists, co-workers, have all signed a petition together and directed it, among other things, to our Committee, with a special letter sent by SANU and the National Council for Higher Education, requiring the newly adopted Law on Higher Education to control absolutely everything that happens in higher education, absolutely everything that happens in the National Council of Higher Education, to control the direct accreditation of the university and in those parts relating to the newly established power of the Minister to control absolutely everything that is going on high education, absolutely everything that happens in the National Council of Higher Education, to control the direct accreditation of all members of the University, which is high education. When the law was passed we told you to see and it was obvious that the law was passed because of those three amendments submitted by the Education Committee, which one of our colleagues was allowed to accredit a university that could not be accredited after 10 years. We propose a completely different way of organising higher education. It was a system where knowledge is appreciated, which appreciates work, which is progressing on merit, in which the minister does not have the authority to voluntarily decide what will be accredited, who will progress, who will be rewarded and who will be punished. It's obvious that such a system does not suit you. You prefer the system where diplomas are bought, doctors plagiarize, and master's and master's papers write overnight. The Democratic Party will never accept such a way of functioning high education because we think it cancels and it denies the work of all those students, all those parents who tell their children that they are worth working for, worth learning, and it is worth trying and all the diplomas will be cancelled. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26678	Thank you. Time. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the basis of the education and education system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26679	Thank you. What we propose to amend and supplement the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System is to return this law to some frameworks that are compatible with the modern world when it comes to education, which are in agreement with the Constitution, which are in agreement with the principles that we should follow when it comes to education and which will in some way define the direction that our basic education should go in the future. You've spoken many times about the problem of our education system not creating finished workers. That's what the prime minister used to say here when she gave the exposés. That has been said countless times by Minister Sarcevic. Besides, that's what President Vukic says every time he accuses our citizens of not being busy because they're lazy, incompetent, untrained, uninterested and waiting for something to fall out of the sky. The thesis would be true if there were some tens of thousands of jobs in Serbia where our citizens could not get a job because they were not sufficiently educated. None of these officials who tell us about it have ever told us – what hundreds of thousands of jobs, how many jobs, where jobs and what jobs are our citizens waiting for and they can't get a job because they're not educated enough? Even if that were true, it's not the problem of our education that doesn't create finished workers. The problem with our education is that it doesn't create finished people and that's the basic problem we need to talk about. That's why it's important that the minister doesn't appoint school directors. It is therefore important that the minister does not appoint members of the National Educational Council. So it's important to define that, among other things, our goal is to teach our children to think, not to scratch them by heart, and only to get grades for what they learn to reproduce compared to what they're told in the previous class. It is therefore important to create a system of education in which work and knowledge will be rewarded, not resourcefulness and needyness. It seems to me that our concepts are in priority what should be priorities when it comes to the development of education insurmountable. Unfortunately, you don't seem to want to talk about this. We will continue to insist and beg you to vote now, and since the president says that there is no need to influence the MPs... .
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26680	Thank you. I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—16 against—there is no one. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Jesic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26681	Thank you. We have been listening to stories for five years now that we have never been in a better economic situation than the Republic of Serbia is today. We listen to stories about how we made a tiger in the Balkans, how GDP is never bigger, and on the other hand we have some people who obviously won't respect these messages from the current President of the Republic, the former Prime Minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister, and that these financial effects he has made turn into real-estate projects, that is, to those who need that money back. We have a country today where VAT doesn't return for eight months. Today, we have a country where 30% of the taxes on cobwebs, hairdressers, butchers, car mechanics have increased. Today, we have a country where the first decision was to amend and supplement the Encouragement Act, where the payments were abolished, which even then, during the DS, were not large enough and were dramatically smaller than colleagues in the environment and countries in the environment, which are their competitors. Then there was an improvement, so that rate of giving was reduced by 10 times. We don't have direct donations today. We have a problem today that at this point, the Ministry of Agriculture has not paid a single 40% premium, how much it has to pay back for mandatory insurance, and every day here, the minister and all the rest of the ministry, we persuaded and forced farmers to start providing their property and that, if there is damage, that property should not be a problem of politics and state, but there is an institution called the insurance company and there are 40% incentives for that damage to be compensated, to do so. When people did that, a year ago no one in this country from agricultural producers was returned to a premium that was required to return to 40% of the compulsory insurance. This law predicts even normal distributions. If we're doing so well already, if we've never had any money in public finances again, if the state's never been saving again, this law concerns farmers, it might be a little bit more relevant to all these laws that the DS has proposed, which is the law on the return of pensions to the previous level, the return of salaries to the public sector, the respect of the law and the return of VAT in time. You're bringing the entire Serbian economy into indifference, because you're inequitable and you don't know how to manage money, to reduce the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises, and to finally think about what it brings...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26682	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 14 against – none. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MP Goran Jesic suggested that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26683	Thank you. To finish the sentence from the past law. It's simple, if we have extra money, we give it back to the ones whose money they belong to, the ones we took it from. The land, not only of the state concerned by this law, but also of the city building, which some other laws spoke of, were the subject of an interstate agreement. On the first day when the SNS took responsibility to lead this country and when the current president was either the vice president or the first vice president. At that time, the first for which we are stuck, is the duchy agricultural land and fertile agricultural land in central Serbia, with a desire to give it to some unknown companies that do not exist and that are fictional, and this, among other things, is called Al Ravafed, which signed a contract with the Ministry of Economy and Agriculture and with the Ministry of the Army, on which the ministry and the legal service of the Army gave a negative opinion. Then we took the best back country, kidnapped the paors and the military in Karadjordjevo, the Adriatic, the Gajdobra, the Bačka, the Sivac, gathered 11,000 acres and gave it to an unknown company, which is the founder, we don't know who owns it, we don't even know the address. In doing so, it was not enough but we gave from the 10m-euro Development Fund, to remove the company's obligations, to clean up workers and 10,000 best and best quality countries in this part of Europe, to give to unknown companies. We kept doing that. We have listened to the convictions of the last minister, who belongs to the SPS, and all others that the new law will prevent the abuse of land, and today you have MPs, you have such abuse that they take directly without public procurement, without obligations under the Law on supply, state agricultural land and process it today according to Srem, according to Vojvodina, anywhere. What are the financial effects of this bill, except for the average price of the lease? Land coverage fell, and then you invented "Tenis", my God, the head of the German slaughterhouse took the president of the Republic to a football game, so the man promised him 10,000 acres of land, or 30,000. So we find out that it's going to be the most capital investment in agriculture, in the processing industry, and then today, after a few years, we realize that we've given the Banatian country, we've taken it away from the paors, and there's no tangible investment of that German company today. What are you doing with the ground? It is "Belgrade on Water", it is "Adriatic" Gajdobra, "Bačka" Sivac, Karadjordjevo, it is "Tenis". These are your tycoons who take land today. I ask the Ministry of Agriculture, the next time they come here, to tell us about the effects of changing the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26684	I'm putting the motion to a vote. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no proposal has been accepted. Ambassador Marko Djurisic suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill on amendments to the law on the financing of local self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26685	Thank you, Chairman. A year ago, the government passed a law that reduced the percentage of the income tax to local self-government. The percentage was reduced from 70% in cities, or 80% in municipalities to 70% and the City of Belgrade from 70% to 66%. As a consequence of these five billion less in the budgets of local self-government in 2017, the budgets of local self-government are in a catastrophic state and they cannot meet their basic obligations today. What is particularly worrying is the announcement of the 2018 budget, where the budgets of local self-government will be additionally burdened in two ways. First, by reducing, i.e. by increasing the non-taxable share of profits to 15% of the dinars, as proposed by the government, local self-government will lose an additional five billion in its budgets and not evenly. In particular, municipalities that have more employees with minimum earnings will be affected, which is mainly the case in smaller municipalities. They will additionally bear the burden of reducing their budget revenues. The second burden on local self-government budgets is that there will be an increase in local administration's profits by 5% and pre-school staff by 10%. It's by some count, an additional five billion in 2018. So 10 billion less to already five billion, the total budget of local self-government in 2017. We believe that this is absolutely unsustainable, that this will definitely lead to the collapse of the budget of local self-government, that the government will no longer be able to do everything and that it will, through direct donations and transfer of funds, as it did in 2017, the City of Kragujevac, the City of Nis and other local self-governments in which the SNS presidents rule. They won't be able to maintain stable local finances. That is why we propose amendments to the law that will restore the rate of income tax on citizens in local self-government, municipalities and cities to 80% and the City of Belgrade to 70%. We believe that this is minimal to what needs to be done in this situation when local self-government, I repeat, will be additionally burdened with the envisaged budget measures for 2018.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26686	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 145 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law amending the law on the income tax of citizens, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović, Zdravko Stankovic, 13 October 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26687	The rate of income tax on citizens for years in Serbia is 10%. Only this year, listing the press report, the president of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic first announced in March before the elections a final reduction in this rate of redundancy, and then in May 2017 he said that by the end of the year, the rate of income tax on citizens would be reduced 1, 2, 3 or 4%, as he said we will see, after an agreement with the IMF. In December 2017, at this session, called on the neck of the nose, which has more than 30 points of the agenda, most of which is related to economic policy for 2018, from budgets to other laws that change, and also to the Law on the Tax on Income of Citizens, there is no such change. These changes are gone, and now the question is whether this may be the first time in history, never recorded, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic lied, when he said the income tax would surely be reduced in 2017. Earlier in 2016, he said it would be done in the second half of 2017. A lie, a lie. Now I ask the question - how does the government think it responds to the need to reduce the burden on profits that Serbia is one of the largest in Europe? I would remind you that some countries in the environment have that rate of 20, 21, 25%, and that this is one of the ways in which their accelerated development, what Serbia does not have, is lagging behind other developing countries in Europe. This reduction today is between 65% and 68%, and I repeat, it's one of the largest. We propose as a symbolic measure, because unfortunately this reduction we propose from 10% to 9% will not dramatically reduce the burden paid on gross earnings of employees in Serbia. But it shows that the government has hearing and understands the need to create a different economic environment in the Republic of Serbia. That's why I'm asking you to vote for this bill to be put on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26688	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 149 for – 11, against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanović, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 7 October 2016. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26689	Thank you. Our proposal to amend and supplement the Law of the Public Sector Payment System has the same name as the proposal sent by the Government on December 1st of this year, to discuss, of course, by emergency procedure, and here on December 6th, this proposal is included in the agenda. Conversely, it announced the Prime Ministers a month and a half ago, who said it would advocate that all laws go through a public debate in the future, which is particularly important for the laws changing the tax system and which should allow businesses working in Serbia to predict the conditions of business in order to make them more determined to invest and develop their jobs. Of course, it's another lie, in a sea of lies we hear from government officials and tops of government in Serbia. What does the law proposed by the government say? Is there anything that needs to improve the position of public sector employees? No, I don't. Are they located, is the law corrected in such a way that public enterprises and bodies, such as agencies founded by the Republic of Serbia, are inserted into this law? No, I don't. This is in our bill of law, which we propose, I think, for more than a year to come to the agenda of this Assembly, because it is something that would truly change the economic environment in Serbia. What does the government suggest? The government is proposing, please be careful, rerouting the deadlines. The deadlines already moved from the end of 2017 to the end of 2018, for the application of this law, are now being moved to the end of 2019, i.e. at the beginning of 2019, I apologize. So again, the government failed to do the job it had to do, to pass a law that would regulate profits in the security sector and to pass a law that would regulate salaries in agencies and other institutions, institutions established by the Republic or local self-government. We're supposed to reward that irresponsibility and the government's dissatisfaction. I call on you not to do this, to adopt that our draft law on concrete solutions in the public sector wage system is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26690	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 148 for – 10 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26691	Thank you. I mean, since we've been trying for more than two years to put this proposal to amend the Tax Act to add value to the Assembly's agenda, that MPs know what this is about. Namely, our proposal is that VAT on baby food is not taxed at a general rate of 20%, but at a special rate of 10%. Not once have we received your support that this point is on the agenda, but we will continue with this, as we have submitted the amendment to the VAT Act, which the Government has proposed for this session, where there is of course no such measure that should allow families with children, small children first of all, to show in one symbolic way, but we think important way, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we, as MPs who bring laws here, are taking care of Serbia's future. Of course, it's not there. It will be as an amendment to the Social Democratic Party Group and the People's Party and it will be interesting to hear the reasons unless the government decides to accept our amendment to reduce the rate of baby food tax. Every time we proposed it as amendments, we got a response from the government that it would increase the administration of taxpayers, that it wouldn't lead to a reduction in retail prices, that it would open up a space for abuse and not make it easier for people who buy baby food. We believe that wouldn't be the case if your reasons didn't stand. It'll be interesting, if we're even in a position to be on the occasion of such a radical agenda of this session where you've brought more than 30 laws into a single debate, if we have any chance of talking about these amendments, to hear the minister's opinion on this proposal. This is important because we are going to talk about the laws on the financial support of families with children and many other laws that are supposed to deal with the question of supporting families with children, and, unfortunately, the solutions that you have proposed do not offer. Therefore, I call on you, instead of a government proposal, to put this proposal on the agenda, which is short, clear and sends a clear message to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26692	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who does not have a vote of 147 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law Proposing Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26693	Thank you, Chairman. At the previous session, when we had the opportunity to talk about proposals for supplementing the agenda, because in the past we were disabled, I did not explain the proposal of this law because the session was called in such a way that the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, which discusses how laws in the Assembly can be passed and put on the agenda by emergency procedure. Unfortunately, we have continued with this practice and this session has been convened so that from the 31 points of the proposed agenda 27 is an emergency procedure. Not only are the emergency procedures, but the laws that came to parliament four or five days ago are important laws that create a business and economic environment in 2018. If it were something bad and something to change, the Prime Minister also said at a rally a month and a half ago. Then she made a public promise that she would do everything possible to get all the laws adopted after the public debate, so that both citizens and businesses and all those interested in certain solutions found in the laws discussed by the Assembly would be discussed before they came here in the procedure. Where's that promise now? Where's the Prime Minister's promise? Was it, I repeat, just another lie in the sea of lies that we listen to daily and that we will continue to listen to as long as this authority is in Serbia? The draft law should correct the bad practice that has led to more than 85% of the laws being adopted by an emergency procedure, to adopt laws that are very quickly shown to be not in the best form possible, so they are put back on the Parliament's agenda and are re-corrected by an emergency procedure so that the government will cover up its screws. The adoption of such a law would introduce order, prevent the Government from misusing what is in the Constitution and the Law on the Assembly and the Rules of Procedure, which speaks of the possibility of proposing laws by emergency procedure, but only when the reasons for this emergency procedure really exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26694	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who does not have a vote of 147 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26695	This law, as the chairman said, since 2016, we have been trying to put the agenda on the agenda and, as someone who has insisted so long before the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party that this law is on the agenda, I should be happy to finally find the government's proposal, if this proposal is not already in place. However, by reading the proposal that came from the government, by emergency procedure, of course sent to the Assembly on 30 November for consideration, I can conclude that it is better not to have come. The measures proposed by the government will, above all, lead to a reduction in the benefits of citizens and citizens of Serbia, and above all to the amount of the maternity allowance, which will now be reduced by about 20% due to a different way of accounting. I'm disappointed that instead of increasing the child's supplement, we can't see from the law whether that increase will be and how much it will be, because instead of defining the amount of child's supplement, we can see that it will be left to the minister for decision-making. The whole concept of the law is not such that it fundamentally changes something in family support policies with children, but that it responds to one sentence in the IMF analysis, which is that high social contributions should be considered in this area and reduced. This government says that an extended database of users is a maternity supplement, but it does not say that the amount from the budget is planned for these givings to the same. This means only one thing - the reduction of the privilege of working mothers. And a number of other solutions in this law are worse, worse than they've ever been before. There are a few who are good, but the question is, since this part of the agenda is 21, are we even going to be able to talk about it? It's the biggest damage to this law. I suggest, you better adopt this bill of ours than the one proposed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26696	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Culture, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Marko Djurisic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26697	Of course I do. It is particularly important that in these three minutes, in addition to what it says in the law that we have proposed, I say a few words about the state of culture in Serbia. So our bill of law has two changes. One is to define artistic photography as cultural activity in terms of the law. The second is that artists who receive the world's greatest and European merits in their jobs are allowed to receive the right to a national pension. Not by decision of the minister, if the minister is in the mood or if he says he has or has no money, but to make it a legal obligation, to establish it in a way similar to what was done for the most responsible athletes. Because what does this provision of law, which we want to change, mean in practice? If the minister, the one who decides whether to grant a national pension, is working against the budget's planned funds, if we see how the budget is planned, that means no one will get that pension. The cultural budget was reduced in 2018. Only cultural institutions are projected 10% less money than it was in 2017. Can we expect the Minister to have, for example, given a significant cultural reward in this year to determine the right to a national pension? No, because the principle of this government is not to implement politics, we're going to talk about it in the budget debate, we're going to set some goals based on budgets, programmes and policies, and we're going to make them real and then measure the achievement of these policies, not measure the state of the budget, in these tables that say how many pluses, what minuses they are. What does the citizens of Serbia get from money that separates in various ways that flow into the Republic of Serbia's budget? We think that this is an important issue and that what the government is offering us through this draft budget does not promise that anyone will be able to win and claim a national pension for merits in the field of culture, and that is why we consider it necessary to change the law, to adopt our decision not to depend on the minister's decision, but to be a legal obligation, as is the case in sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26698	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – the draft law supplementing the Act on Excises, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 22 November 2016. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26699	Thank you, Chairman. This amendment to the Excise Act concerns the introduction of a special excise duty on artificially sweetened drinks and juices. This is one of the measures proposed by the World Health Organization in the fight against obesity epidemics. The epidemic of obesity exists in Serbia as well. The obesity in children in Serbia has been doubled, 21% of children are obesity, and 35% are pre-fat. In spite of all this, several weeks ago, when a day of diabetes patients was marked and more than 700,000 people in Serbia were found to be suffering from this disease, the government has no policy to fight the disease. Other countries have set out on the path proposed by the World Health Organization, and some of them, for God's sake, are moving on. Hungary introduced this tax six years ago and today consumption of artificially sweetened drinks is 20% lower. In Mexico since 2013, the consumption of these drinks has been reduced by 10%. I've found news here that the mayor of London is planning to ban the kiosks of fast food within a 400-metre radius of the school to prevent children from eating unhealthy food and using these drinks. In all this time, the Republic of Serbia is doing nothing. The minister notes, on the day of diabetes, that diabetes is the fifth cause of death, and that it can become the first one very quickly. What we're proposing is the introduction of a excise, the creation of a special fund that, by some calculations alone, means that excises on artificially sweetened drinks, and there are other measures related to unhealthy food, would be collected into a fund of about five billion dinars a year. One healthy meal could be provided in all schools, to solve two problems. The problem of those kids who don't have any meals at school, as well as the problem of children who have an unhealthy meal during school classes. I urge you to adopt this proposal, because the government obviously has no idea to fight this monster.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26700	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 137 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Temporary Arrangement of Pensions Payments, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanović, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 7 October 2016. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26701	Thank you, Chairman. The law on the termination of the Law on the provisional arrangement of the way in which pensions are paid. It has been more than three years since the National Assembly passed this law. The word "temporary" was defined in the very text of the law so as to determine that this reduction would take effect from the December 2014. It has been more than three years, and the law obviously remains in force, although according to all statements by the president, the former Prime Minister, ministers, the goals needed to introduce this measure. However, the law remains in force and 400,000 people who are illegally and counter-constitutionally deprived of property, the property will continue to be seized. What the President of the Fiscal Council drew attention to the other day here in the Assembly, that it is illogical that if the objectives of this interim law continue to apply, he received maltene removal headlong from the Assembly by the chairman of the Budget and Finance Committee in response. This debt, which has been made over the past few years towards people who have been deprived of pensions, which is probably more than 500m euros in these three years, unfortunately will come at the expense of these people, unfortunately not those people, but unfortunately the budgets of the Republic of Serbia. As after the change in 2000, the government inherited 18 pensions to the citizens of Serbia, the ugly DOS, and succeeded in a year to compensate for the debt, so the debt will wait for the government to fall. I can't say within what time it will be possible to settle that debt. When we first proposed this law, we felt that the deadline of one year, through the issue of bonds, would be sufficient to settle the debt, but the debt at that time was 150m euros. If it continues to extend this temporary reduction, the debt will grow and the government that comes after this pest will not be able to settle quickly what this government has taken away from the pensioners.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26702	Thank you, Mr. Gursich. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 11 against – 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marko Djurisic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Media Services, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26703	One of the promises made by the SNS authorities by 2012 was that it would lift the tax on an electric number which, under the law of that time, was financed by the Public Media Service. It took the authorities nearly two and a half years to keep that promise, when the rate of charge had already fallen below 40%, and then by changing the law, the TV tax was introduced. When the law was adopted, it was said that it would be charged in another way, in a way that would be determined by the board of directors. But for a year, the board of directors could not come up with any different solution than to charge again, under another name alone, from Serbian citizens through an electricity bill. But this time, citizens are not left with the possibility of not paying that tax. In addition, since the remaining solutions that provided for a different way of charging could not even be released from the bill on payment of this fee. So what do we have today? Today we have that for every electric number in the household, this tax is paid. And in households, above all in rural areas, where we have several electric numbers on auxiliary facilities, on garages, on stables, on each of these electric numbers, this fee has to be paid. Our proposal for a change is very simple. It is that the payer only charges the natural person that the user measures electricity in the housing unit where he has the registered residence. And this government refuses to resolve it, as it refuses to solve the situation in the media in Serbia. Keeps the status quo, the budget provides for the same level of budget subsidies, the same tax will be 150 dinars in 2018, the Assembly will also provide public media services with more than 80,000,000 dinars annually, and of course remains the same report on political life in Serbia, where opposition representatives cannot get one single second in information emissions and very little time in other shows to explain their policies. That has to change, and I believe that change will come with next year's election. Please chair to determine the quorum before the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26704	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we make a statement on this proposal, I ask you to establish a quorum. Dear People's MPs, I'm setting a five-minute break. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask you to repeat the quorum. I find that 129 MPs are present in the O.R. I ask you first to state the draft law amending the Law on Public Media Services, MP Marko Đurisic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned one, voted 131 MPs for – 10. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Information and Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26706	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, the Law on Public Information and the media has been in force for more than three years. Remember when it was brought somewhere in August 2014 that it was treated as one of the major reform shifts in media and information. Unfortunately, after the adoption of these laws, we have a much worse situation and for this reason, we are guided by these facts and by an analysis of the Media and Information Act, I have submitted a proposal for a change of Article 39(1) point 8) so that all media registers are recorded directly and indirectly, regardless of the size of the stake, the founding capital of the separation, as opposed to the solution so far that only the data on owners whose share exceeds 5% of the ownership are recorded. In practice there are, respected MPs, and shareholders who own less than 5% of the shares in the issuer's ownership structure and exercise effective control over editorial policy, as well as sources of funding of multiple media at the same time. I think that this is generally known and that there is actually a key reason when the law was passed in 2014, which is why not all those who have less than 5% share in the media are not covered by this law. I believe that the existing solution, which provides for the entry of all direct and indirect media owners, should be done for this reason, honourable MPs, I call on you to vote to put this law on the agenda so much as to regulate not only the media scene but also to ensure the transparency of the issuer's ownership structure, or the media, which will help increase the confidence of citizens in the media and reduce the possibility of possible abuses and illicit influences on the media and through the media. Otherwise, the constitutional framework or the basis for the adoption of this law is contained in Article 97. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia, according to which the Republic of Serbia, among other things, regulates and provides for the achievement and protection of the freedom and rights of citizens, which is certainly the right to inform, but also property relations, as well as the control of the legality and availability of legal persons.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26707	Thank you, colleague Bogdanovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, who has not voted 137 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26708	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the People, here I have been for almost a year and more proposing this law to be included in the agenda, however, as long as I have had the time and how many opportunities we have had, I see that this law has now been incorporated by an emergency procedure at today's session of the National Assembly, however, regardless of all this, what I have asked for in the amendment of this law is unfortunately not accepted and is not put in place to amend and supplement the Law on corporate tax. For this reason, who knows which time I would like to present to you and explain the reasons for putting on the agenda a session of the National Assembly Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax. As you have seen, honourable MPs, this law essentially contains only one amendment, one member, but with far-reaching and long-term positive effects on the economy of the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, honourable MPs, and my proposal to amend this one member, which includes that the corporate tax rate, which amounts to 15%, will be reduced to 10%. I will only remind you that many transition countries have also had relatively low profit tax rates and this has proved to be an important viscal instrument in the function of developing the economy and increasing employment and ensuring a high growth rate in the future, primarily through an increase in exports. With this tax discharge, we will begin to create for investors and all those who are now operating in an attractive tax system in the service of business and gradual GDP growth, and ultimately the Law amending the Law on corporate tax will also create conditions that, through the reduction of the tax rate on corporate income, 10% of the corporate sector, business, business, cooperatives and other market participants, and will further motivate foreign investors to invest in our economy. In order not only to motivate foreign investors of subsidies like, unfortunately, this government in the last five years has allocated enormous resources to bring foreign investors to invest in the state of Serbia, I think it is much more efficient and much healthier and much better and for the citizens of Serbia to cut tax rates not only in this Law on the acquisition of legal persons but also in many other rates that this government has promised when it comes to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26709	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11 MPs, against – no one, abstentioned – has ever voted 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Order and Peace, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word is made by MP Goran Bogdanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26710	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the People, by analysing this law, we have seen certain irregularities or better to say the shortcomings of this law, and this way, using the privilege of MPs, we are trying to amend some of the members of this law. The reason for the amendment of this member that I have proposed to delete is, first of all, events that occurred a few months ago or, better say, a year ago, when the municipal police exceeded the limits of their jurisdiction and misused their responsibilities, with human rights seriously threatened and violated, and in certain cases with tragic outcomes. Dear Members of the People, I will remind you that it may have been more than nine months ago. Infringement of an official in the exercise of official duty and provision of the Law on Public Order and Peace is primarily inaccurately defined and creates the possibility of broad interpretation, which is absolutely unacceptable. Dear People's MPs, I will remind you, since I have some experience in this area myself, because for many years I have worked as a Republic Inspector and I know how much opportunity there is to be misused, above all some powers that have authorized persons. That, unfortunately, was happening. I've been a witness in several cases. And for that very reason, I want this member, Article 22 — the insult of an official in the performance of his official duties, to be deleted. When I say this, I don't think it should be misunderstood, because other provisions, other laws have just been regulated and much better, more precisely defined in how officials act by duty and how they can be protected, above all, from possible attacks, insults, harassment, from natural persons. For this reason, honourable MPs, I call on you to vote to put this on the agenda, because I think that certain provisions of this law and some other laws, which we will also propose in the coming period as a change, will be more useful to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will more respect human rights and will give more and more obligations, and also responsibilities, especially to officials, in this case, to the municipal police and police.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26711	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, has voted for – eight, against – 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Bogdanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Goran Bogdanovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 138 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on secondary education and education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 August 2017. Does MP Dusan Milisavljevic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26712	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, this and the next law I have proposed is aimed at preventing peer violence. The idea is to introduce the first hour of every month as a preventative lesson with a class elder or teacher, where children would work with their teacher or class elder and talk about the problem of peer violence, to learn that there are different children who do not hear, who see less, who have diabetes, who have some degree of disability and that is no reason for a child to be the target of their peers and their friends. We are witnessing that thanks to social networks, thanks to internet communications, we are faster to learn some news that, in some years earlier, we have not had the opportunity to learn that children are increasingly in primary and secondary schools of the victim of peer violence. It is one of the topics that practically requires one systemic response from the state, the RES Ministry of Education, but also from all of us in society. I think as a doctor, I can tell you that we're a little bit copying some Western models, wanting national TV houses to earn some profit and some models in that non-good communication. I think that on national frequencies showing in some prime terms some reality programs where there is violence, which is practically publicly shown, where the insult of participants of these reality programs is granted for survival or for the rest of that reality program, children are looking at it all and it's something very bad for me. I want to say publicly that I have nothing against order, no media, but that such programs don't deserve to be in prime time and should be in some late-nighter terms who wants to watch it, but certainly don't watch the kids. Children, as I said, are susceptible to absorbing some of the values that are not acceptable to me and not in value that should be in prime time. What I'm saying is that psychologists and educators who study human behavior and character through education and learning think that peer violence is best fought by the constant story of it. So I propose, in this bill of law, that we introduce a preventive and educational class, every month with a teacher and a class elder to work with our children in one prevention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26713	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. It concludes the vote and I declare: for – 13, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 133. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 August 2017. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26714	Dear Chairman, I continue with this problem of peer violence. The goal is one preventive way of working with our children in primary and secondary schools, and it is certainly a conversation with their teacher and class elder about the necessity to share all problems with our classmates, not to target them and insult them. There are different types of violence. From verbal violence to physical violence is a short journey. What we need as a state to impose as an obligation on our educators is that when they notice that the child has a problem in the class, to talk to that child and to initiate a procedure proposed by the UNICEF and adopted by our state and the resolution ministry, which is this one mechanism of protecting our young people in primary and secondary schools, so that they don't come into a situation where more and more violence is emerging. It's something that's taken hold of us and something that binds us all as politicians, but also as parents, to talk about this problem. What I'm saying is that the problem is that violence, according to UNICEF, occurs more and more often, is that violent people come from dysfunctional families more and more often. It doesn't matter if parents are doctors of science or professors or primary school, it's crucial and it's a strong and material status. More important is the attention devoted to the child. I'm asking, by proposing this law, that through one prevention, through one conversation with the children, but also through conversation with the parents at parent meetings, we talk about this problem. I'd like to go back to some years when I was a grade and high school student, where I had a class and children of Roma nationality, where I had some classmates who had learning problems and who were poorer, we shared lunches with them, and we agreed, we went out to town together, and we never had a problem in class. This is one moment right now where as a state, we have to say something has to be done. I'm going back to some norms that are adopted by children themselves, which are some norms and some values that are false to me and where some values shouldn't take place in the prime terms of national television. I would always give advantage to the young, smart children that Serbia has, who bring prizes from the contests in physics, chemistry, Serbian language, mathematics. Serbia is rich with brains, has good, smart little ones. I would like us to give them the advantage, to give priority to some good doctors, to some good engineers, who have results in their work, not to give the championship reality to programs, some starlets, and some people who don't deserve those values. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26715	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted – 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does the MP want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26716	Thank you, Your Honor. The amendment of a member of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia aims, that is, Article 250. I, as a member of the People's Parliament, request the support of my colleagues and seek the support of the Justice Department to regulate this member. This member practically discriminates against HIV sufferers. On December 1st, all government politicians, all parties, supported AIDS sufferers on the International AIDS Day. On December 1st, we were all unique about it. But, here, we have one problem that's been subdued, 30 years ago, I don't know exactly, when there's been an amendment to the Criminal Code, in Article 250, where HIV has been particularly excluded from a group of infectious diseases that treats Article 249 and classifies it as a special member, as if it's a very dangerous disease with which, if another person gets infected, it's a criminal act that fits Article 250. So, the appeal of AIDS, the national association, is that this member is deleted and that AIDS is placed and classified in a group of diseases where all infectious diseases, where hepatitis-b, where hepatitis-c, which as a physician tell you, are now much more dangerous, have a higher mortality rate than the AIDS itself, which is practically caused by the development of drugs and pharmaceuticals, has led to a chronic state where it can be maintained. Unfortunately, there are barriers to many patients in Serbia, especially AIDS patients. This verse exists to these people and they appeal to the state to be further state through one member of the law, not to be discriminated against. I'm here on three occasions, assembly call, please. In the previous term, Mr Selakovic, as minister of justice, understood and we entered into some agreement that this member of the law would change. Extraordinary parliamentary elections have come. Here, and by that you can see how some good things break up and forget. I am sending an appeal to the new justice minister to consider this proposal that comes not from Dusan Milisavljevic, I am officially a signator, comes from AIDS sufferers, who are asking not to be discriminated against unlike other infectious diseases and patients who suffer from other infectious diseases. So, the wish is for a 250th member to be abolished and AIDS, AIDS, is classified as a group of infectious diseases that include both hepatitis-b and hepatitis-c, and that's Article 249. Please and I hope that this appeal will reach the Ministry of Justice and that an appeal that comes from patients with AIDS will be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26717	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted – 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does the MP want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26718	Dear Chairman, the proposal aims to impose a legal obligation for newborn babies in Serbia to be heard in maternity homes from day 3 to day 5. You are witnessing that last year, all Serbia's maternity homes are equipped with new hearing aids for detecting hearing damage in our babies. All of Serbia's maternity homes received the apparatus thanks to a major action led by Ringier Axel Springer, where the Health Ministry joined, where Serbia's humanity rose and where we all gathered money together to have all the maternity homes with these appliances. What's going on now? I'm getting data from a number of Serbian cities, Novi Sad, some smaller cities in western Serbia, where my parents tell me they haven't been checked for hearing from newborn babies. The idea is that hearing is just being measured by babies from the third to the fifth day since birth, so that we can detect in time whether or not the child has hearing damage and how the ORL services would start with adequate therapy, i.e. Rehabilitation of hearing. As an ORL professor, I'm telling you that when you don't detect hearing damage in a child, in a baby, the child grows up and the child is late with a later possibility of developing and speaking. When you have no hearing, you have no ability to develop speech. This is a very serious topic and I think that since we already have machines that are in all maternity homes, it's not good that some colleagues don't do those screening programs. That is why, as a doctor in the legislative body, I am taking the opportunity of a legislator, i.e. The parliamentary mandate and the position to draw attention to this subject, that this is one general, civilizational good for our youngsters, for our newborn babies, to reveal in time whether or not a child hears or hears. I use this opportunity to send a message to Serbian citizens who may be watching this assembly. If you are fortunate to have your daughter delivered, make sure you insist on checking your hearing. All maternity homes have these appliances. We need to get those doctors and those nurses in maternity wards to do what they were given for use. In addition, this bill would make it a legal obligation and then it wouldn't be possible to avoid it, then it would be an obligation that after the birth of women, the mother when she left the maternity ward with the baby to stand on the discharge list whether the child hears or doesn't hear. It's my wish, as an ORL professor, to use my policy to get one professional and professional thing through to the end. I hope that the Ministry of Health will have an understanding and that soon we will solve this problem together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26719	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one with abstention – has voted 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - the Bill on the Completion of the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does MP Dusan Milisavljevic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26720	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, this is a change, an addition to the Penal Code, which requires that the criminal act of illegally acquired property cannot become obsolete. We've been talking about some issues where the crime of stealing babies can't get old. This is another wish that in the time of the transition of the Republic of Serbia, where Serbian citizens see that numerous privatisations have failed, that certain people have become rich, and that they have lost their factories, run out of work, run out of existence... This is exactly what I think is a good idea. I am a doctor, I am not in this matter. I was the one most provoked by professor. Cedomir Cupic, who spoke in a tribune in Nis about this problem and his desire for this to even be incorporated into the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. As a MP, I took advantage of this opportunity to say something about this, and I put this proposal for amending the Code of Criminal Procedure in the assembly procedure. One sentence that would be preventive for many people who at a certain point find themselves in the executive power that is not well stolen and that the crime of illegally acquired property cannot be outdated. It would, I mean, be preventive and good for many of the next generations of politicians, because you may currently have the support of this or that, perhaps the present court won't work, but when you have one sentence regulated in the Criminal Code that this crime cannot be outdated, then many would wonder if they would enter into some kind of violation if that law were to be such that maybe within 10, 15 or 20 years, it could be prosecuted. I know that the most serious crimes can't get old, like war crimes, and I certainly don't go in and take prerogatives to lawyers, lawyers and judges, and I don't pretend to be smart, but this is one, maybe, and the appeal of ordinary people, who are sick of many politicians saying -- well, wait, one thing we talk about, they're doing, we're out of work, we're living badly. Just one sentence might indicate the willingness of politicians to show citizens that this crime cannot be outdated. I'd like to finish with this, and I'd like to invite you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26721	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one with abstention – has voted 136. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 June 2017. Does MP Dusan Milisavljevic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26722	This bill comes from one problem of the workers of the Republic of Serbia. I already explained and explained on two occasions that the problem of Violeta Petrovic from Nis, who was a JURE worker and who was fired at the time she was treated with breast cancer, received cytostatic therapy after breast cancer surgery and lost her job. This is something we, as legislators, must resolve and correct. This has nothing to do with any politics or any competition with anyone in parliament. This is a competition and a message to people who own certain companies. This proposal would prohibit company owners from firing a cancer worker who is in the process of treatment or in the process of rehabilitation. We have witnessed that we have entered a period of strong harsh capitalism where employers are first placed in profit and their personal benefit. I don't want to accept it as a doctor. I've been doing this my whole life, I'm 50 years old, and I've dedicated my life to helping people and treating people. I can't stop and support people whose capital comes first and who don't have the soul to have a working man with malignant tumor, who has cancer that's the most serious disease... Unlike all other diseases, cancer is the most serious disease. Unfortunately, in Serbia, it is in expansion, we have a huge increase in morbidity and mortality, which means the incidence rate that a large number of our citizens get malignant tumors, i.e. cancer has a high mortality rate of these malignancies. That's why it's my desire, as a doctor, to send a message to people who have factories, who are able to help, to have no more rights, no more opportunities to fire a working man who's fighting for his life. It's so clear to me and so pure a story that I've been talking about it two or three times already. There's no reason to take this the wrong way. Please, about one subject that should be unique to all of us, which is the protection of our cancer workers, to be accepted. If the problem is that I'm a signator, let's take anyone from the Ministry of Labour and formulate this proposal into one legal framework and make it impossible for people who have capital in the first place to no longer have the right to fire our cancer worker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26723	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 137 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 7 June 2017. Does MP Dusan Milisavljevic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26724	This proposal is related to workers who are at one point struggling with a severe illness called cancer. As a professor, I'm telling you that in Serbia, unfortunately, there is an increase in the percentage of malignant tumours and that, as a state, we carry out different measures and prevention and treatment and that the health profession works maximumly to help citizens who have malignancies. This bill would be for workers who suffer from tumors to be able to have a 100% monthly refund i.e. sick leave, not like 65% of my colleagues told me it was discrimination against other patients. As a doctor, I tell you that I take the responsibility to say – yes, I am for this positive discrimination, because these people need the most help because they fight to stay alive, because they fight for their lives, because malignant tumor, cancer doesn't forgive, and that's why one support, through one legal framework, that a worker can't be a patient, as long as he's struggling with the tumor can't be fired and plus that he has 100% compensation for being sick for his absence from work. Health care in Serbia is free and as far as the treatment process itself is concerned, Serbia has good results in the process of treating tumour processes. You know it's extra expensive. These patients need to take some medications and have a need for a better quality food to help them strengthen their immunity. It is precisely why the idea of this bill is to allow them 100% support, i.e. 100% sick. This proposal also fits into the National Strategy of the Republic of Serbia to combat malignancies and I see no reason not to accept such an initiative. I won't answer again. I have a few more draft laws, but with this proposal, I would like to send a message to the Ministry of Labour that we have to protect our workers so that we no longer have the Violeta Petrovic case from Nis, which I have recently visited and who watched the transfer of the Assembly 15 days ago and where she saw that we were just talking about her on this subject and that no more worker in Serbia who is suffering from cancer felt insecure and unprotected, and that some, I'm going to say, a bold man who owns a factory or an object that has capital in the first place, not human life. We are here to protect the citizens of Serbia and our role is to disable such people who put capital first, not human life that they can't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26725	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 14, no one, 133 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dusan Milisavljevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft amending and supplementing the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 October 2017. Does MP Dusan Milisavljevic want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned one, who has not voted 137 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on the Budgetary System, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 February 2017. Does MP Maja Vidinovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26726	Vice President, only if I've heard you correctly, first on the budget system, right? So today, after the adoption of the agenda, we will discuss the draft budget law, the draft budget system law and 30 other points, and it is exactly one year since I was then Minister Vujovic, asking him to adopt an amendment that abolishs so-called. a temporary ban on employment, for which we have witnessed for years that it is not a matter of any temporary ban on employment, because fiscal consolidation has become some kind of ideology that is most important for this government, the measure of disaster, the wrong, the discriminatory, the measure that is not applied to everyone. When you have a bad measure, if anything else can be worse than that, it's that it's not applied to everyone and something goes on year after year and it's not about any temporary ban on employment. It is a permanent ban on employment for a young scientist, for a young doctor, for a young woman who works in culture, and it is a matter of being allowed to employ for party SNS activists, who are employed year after year, and every day we are witnesses in a large number of local self-governments, in municipalities, in cities, in public enterprises where you have not even started the reform process, and for all those people who have defined themselves to be honest learners, to get a degree and to work in those areas that are naturally directed to the state, to work in the judiciary, in the prosecution, in the field of culture, in health, in everything my colleague Dusan just said. Therefore, they are subject to a temporary ban on employment and not to all those members of the SNS. You know, when the Fiscal Council in a very detailed and quality report, which all the MPs of the people, I hope, read, warns that it is a devastating way to extend this year so-called. temporary employment ban. She left chaos in the systems. We don't have enough doctors. In the prosecution, we do not have enough dactylographs and scribes, the resulting rights of citizens and the justice of citizens. There's a wasteland left in the systems. This measure is discriminatory. It is absolutely not justified by anything other than the party's will and the SNS's will which will decide discreetly whether this measure does not apply in a particular case or not. I urge you to allow us to put this on the agenda before we start talking about the budget and the following laws with your vote to allow us to put this on the agenda and to give you the opportunity to face the arguments and face you with the execution of this measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26727	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 131 MPs for – 11 against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 September 2017. Does MP Maja Vidinovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26728	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, which I submitted with my colleague Vesna Marjanović before a certain time, actually speak of several essential things and colleagues Vesna Marjanović and I have made an effort to amend dozens of members, who primarily refer to several key things, which are much more than the Law on Electronic Media itself and what we call REM, that is the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, which I am convinced that citizens are expressing reasonable doubt about whether there is actually such a thing. It's something they hear, that there's some kind of REM that doesn't do anything, that there's some kind of REM that should say after every election campaign that candidate has been represented in the media, that there's some kind of REM that should react when on televisions with national frequencies, which, I repeat once again, are public good, that are under certain very clear conditions to give certain people to use as a public good and it's not true that if someone has private television for him, the law doesn't apply. Not that it's not true, but the harsh and brutal abuse we hear every day from the representatives of the SNS. So, citizens are fundamentally suspected that REM does not exist, and co-worker Vesna Marjanović and I have been precise about certain members of the Law on Electronic Media tried to disable the space for abuse, which we have seen more than the ability to abuse the absolute and process selection of REM members, which we have all witnessed going through for years unfortunately, the fact that REM should continuously monitor whether the television that received permission to broadcast the programme and received national frequency has continued respect in the same way that it received that frequency. It is necessary to strengthen the legal obligation and it is necessary for an institution that does not exist today and does not do its job to strengthen, control, pressure, and demand that it submits here to MPs, or citizens and citizens, because, you know what, when you do not have an institution and when REM does not do its job, then we have a president, at this point, Alexander Vukic, who counts for seconds and expresses his dissatisfaction because, in some contribution to his assessment, he was not represented in a satisfactory manner. When you don't have an institution and you don't have REM, then the president of Serbia can allow him to respect the public service for why he wasn't in the second, not the fourth, and the way in which. When you don't have an institution, then the parties take over. It's the opposite of the Constitution. It is dangerous for democracy, and I think that we, as MPs, are obliged and responsible to talk about it. That's why I'm asking you to put the amendments to this law on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26729	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Vidinović, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to identify all the facts and circumstances that followed the events that occurred before and during the oath of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, who submitted to the National Assembly on 20 November 2017. The word is made by the People's MP Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26730	Thank you, Vice President. I have submitted a proposal for the Assembly to vote and to form a committee of inquiry and I am fully convinced that this proposal will have the support of all MPs. I have submitted a proposal to form a survey committee whose task would be to reveal all relevant facts that would not necessarily be determined in order to reach the truth and answer – who are the persons who physically attacked journalists, journalists and photojournalists who were doing their job at the swearing ceremony of Aleksandr Vukic almost a few months ago. Fully convinced that all MPs, because in the interests of the country, stability, democracy, truth, institutions, will vote for this, as an additional argument, fellow MPs, I would like to tell you that you are all witnesses that the first General Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade has rejected criminal statements by journalists, journalists, photographers who have done their job in the day of inauguration, i.e. taking an oath from the president of Serbia, who were then brutally attacked by certain, yet unknown persons. We had an amazing explanation that these criminal charges were rejected, that the prosecution did not find that there was violent behaviour or a threat to security and that journalists were brought out of the crowd by some sort of monk or unknown person. That's what I'm going to tell you, what I'm asking is that the task of this polling committee is because they were provoked by their clear statement of political views. That also confirmed something, unfortunately, that we had the opportunity to hear from both the president and the SNS MPs, which is that they are thugs that we do not know are members of the SNS, whether it is private security hired by the SNS. Is this private security that the SNS hired had orders from and from whom to physically attack and to physically remove journalists, journalists and photojournalists who did their job on the day of the oath of Alexander Vukic? Was that private security, or not, or did the party's parallel army have orders to do such a thing, also a question for the Ministry of the Interior? On whose orders did the members of the Ministry of the Interior in the Civil Service not respond to the apparent violence that the whole world had the opportunity to see? By whose order did they not respond to violence and by whose order did they do nothing to prevent violence and not come to it? It is fully convinced that the interest of all MPs is to know the truth in this event, and because of the fact that it has been six months since this event when it is in front of the eyes of the whole world, and less of the world, when an inadmissible message has been sent to the eyes of all citizens and citizens that violence is allowed and that journalists and journalists who are doing their job are legitimate targets of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26731	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for -12, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted 134 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Komic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Committee of Auditors to identify the facts and circumstances that led to a helicopter accident in which seven people, who had submitted their lives to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does the MP Gordana Komic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26732	Thank you. On 13 March 2015, we witnessed the tragedy of helicopters sent to rescue mission and witnessed the deaths of seven people, Major Omer Mezic, Captain Milovan Djukanovic, Ensign Nebojko Drajic and Ivan Miladanovic, Doctor Dzevad Ljaic, Anaesthetist Miroslav Veseninović and Five-day Baby of the Ademovic family. The Serbian Army General Staff has also conducted an investigation into our common grief and damage, this is one of the dramatic and tragic cases of mockery and the rule of law and the institutions in which people have sent us to take care of their care, to stick to the rule of law and to respect both life and death. The investigation conducted by the General Staff has run out of answers to two key questions. From whom then, Defence Minister Bratislava Gasic received information that it is necessary to order a rescue mission? The report just says that he did exactly the opposite of the custom, that is, the rules of how such a mission is ordered in the military, that he missed the co-ordination, that he gave General Bandic an oral warrant for a rescue mission. That on his conscience and that on his soul, but what's left of him is who gave him the information that he needed a rescue mission? The second question that remains unanswered is who changed the flight plan for the helicopter on the way back, when instead of on the VMA helicopter, the helicopter headed for the "Nikola Tesla" airport? If we get out of the mind of the electronic media, written media, newspapers and televisions that have released news that the helicopter has landed happily, that the baby has been saved, if we ignore the indignity of Major Omer Mehic, if we ignore the entire campaign carried by representatives of the then-Government of the Republic of Serbia, the indignity that applied to the people who died in that helicopter, one thing we cannot ignore, which is that our obligation, is our duty, and that it is our human right to never stop looking for a survey committee that would determine all the facts that would determine who was responsible for the deaths of seven people, who would determine who was responsible for taking the public right to know from whom Minister Gašic received the information, who changed the flight plan? And, in the end, perhaps not the most important, but good for the health of the public scene in Serbia, who sent news to the media that the mission was happily completed?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26733	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for -10, against - there is no one who voted 136 of the people's MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a bill establishing tax on undeclared citizens' income, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic, 13 September 2017. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26734	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SDS parliamentary group has proposed a law laying down taxes on undeclared citizens' income. This law could be called another law on the origin of property. That's what the SNS promised in 2012. They came to power in 2012 and five years after, from Sunday to Sunday, they refuse to put the law on the agenda from month to month. We did the job, we made the law, we proposed it, the SNS refuses to discuss this law. The law could also be called "the aunt's law", because it is a well-known affair of Minister Vulin who failed to give the Anti-Corruption Agency an adequate explanation of how he gained 200,000 euros, as he earned the money. That is why we propose this law, that every official in this country from 2000 to today, as all citizens in this country must say where they acquired the property. If the assessment finds that they have legally paid income tax and the property they have acquired, they have no problem with the law. If they didn't, this law in a fast and efficient way allows all those who didn't pay the income tax to get paid now, depending on the height, 20%, 40% or 60%. This is an effective way to fight corruption. The data says 30% of the country's GDP is from corruption. So 10 billion euros of dirty money is in this country. These pairs generate corruption. These couples are being bribed by civil servants in this country, and more and more are being corrupt in the country. There's more and more from year to year. What you're not going to put on the agenda is that the SNS doesn't really want to fight corruption, that everything you've been saying was a lie. No criminal proceedings have been brought to an end. What happened to Miskovic? Nothing. And you're not going to pass one law that can stop it from getting in the legal process. If we want to have an economy in this country, if we want the economy to work, we need to get rid of corruption, and the only way to do that is to pass a law on the origin of property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26735	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Special Measures to Prevent the conduct of criminal acts against semi-freedom against minors, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two, for one, and for one, there was no one who voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a law supplementing the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, which is the afternoon of the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26736	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's another bill that needs to act preventively to reduce corruption in this country. So we have proposed to introduce integrity plans into political parties. The integrity plans say the organisation that introduces them sees itself as controversial places, which are the crisis hotspots that lead to corruption in one system. Why does SNS not allow integrity plans to be introduced into political parties? Well, because he knows there's corruption within the SNS. How is it possible that people who run the state, formed in political parties, if they are formed in such a way that they are prone to corruption, how can they run a state without corruption? Not at all. So the way to prevent corruption in the country is to teach all political parties that no one can deal with corruption. Why not allow, when Serbian citizens believe that the biggest corruption in political parties is to discuss a law that will prevent corruption in political parties? So, we suggest that each party must look into the areas of corruption in its ranks and prevent it. The Serbian Progressive Party could consider explaining to its members what a limit it is to fund a political campaign and not to give one person more money and donate more money than is allowed by law, because it is a violation of the law and the law. This kind of thing could be prevented if we looked at it in terms of integrity plans. So, if you gentlemen really are in favour of preventing corruption in this country, let's first go from ourselves, start from political parties and prevent corruption in political parties, which is a source of corruption for everything else. There's no courage in the SNS, there's just talk of fighting corruption, but no concrete move can be taken.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26737	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for -six, against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 137 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Tax Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26738	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for three years the Social Democratic Party has been trying to convince the ruling majority to discuss the property tax law. In 2013, the Council adopted As soon as she came to power, the SNS first raised the property tax. You raised your property tax in one day 200 to 300%, like a coma. Most of all, you raised your property tax in Belgrade. Every year, a congratulations from the Tax Administration to every citizen in this country in the form of an increased tax. No one knows what kind of property tax it's gonna be. So, 300 percent of you raised your property tax! Do you understand that the citizens of Belgrade can't pay for it? Do you understand that because they can't pay taxes on property they're forced to sell their apartments? Who do they sell apartments to? Who's gonna buy those apartments in Belgrade? Probably the ones who've won an enormous fortune in the last five years. These are your members. So these guys are supposed to move out and leave because they can't pay property taxes, and you're gonna buy their apartments cheap. Is that an idea? Why don't you let the citizens live in their apartments and their houses? It's the constitutional right of each of us. It's not a luxury if a four-member family lives in an 80-square apartment. It's not a luxury, it's a real one. We have therefore proposed this law that property tax is not paid up to 25 square meters per member of the family household, precisely because it is not a luxury. If someone has multiple apartments, it's okay to pay taxes and extra taxes, not that people who live several generations in the apartment, and grandparents, and father, and mother, and children, and grandchildren, how many generations live in one apartment, can't pay taxes. They can't pay because they don't even have a job. At the same time that you brought an increase in property taxes, you introduced electricity excises, you cut pensions by 25%, and someone by 22%, and you cut salaries by 10%. All at the same time. Well, do you think people can handle it? Turn around a little bit, don't just move around in the congregation, go outside and see how people live. You will not discuss any subject that hurts Serbian citizens. Why? You looked up to Germany and passed the Duo Education Act. Why don't you look up to Germany and cancel your property tax? There's no property tax there. In half of the EU countries, there is no property tax. There is no property tax in Croatia. Why are you doing this? Because the economy isn't working and you can't finance the budget any other way.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26739	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for - seven against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Administrative Procedure Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - six, against—there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of National MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26740	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament and citizens of Serbia, as you have heard, I proposed to amend the Law on selecting Members of Parliament in September 2016. For more than a year, the SNS will not discuss the Law on the selection of MPs. Why aren't you ready for internal dialogue? What is the problem with discussing the most important topics in the Serbian Parliament? If we talk about amending the Constitution, then the first thing that needs to change in that Constitution, it's an electoral system, it's the way MPs are elected. Why don't you want to talk in the Assembly about how to change everything that's wrong with our election law? We all know what's wrong. We all know there's been an election theft, both parliamentary and presidential. Citizens had the opportunity in 2016 to watch direct television transmissions as per the order of the Republic Election Commission, in which the majority of SNS has, the sacks of SNS respond. Those sacks that don't fit to open the SNS, you didn't open them. You've been counting what you wanted, and you've been reading the results as you wanted. A sack has been opened where we learned that at the polling post where MP Goran Bogdanovic and his family SDS have not received any votes, according to the minutes, and in the bag we found 60 votes for the SDS. Well, who stole those 60 votes? Those in whose envelope these voices were found.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26741	Comrade Konstantinovic, would you like to talk about amendments and amendments to the law?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26742	The amendments and the additions to the law. How can that be prevented? By adopting these changes and supplementing them. The results must be determined at the polling post, not to determine the results in the RIK. At the polls, all parties participating must have a member of the election board. You've made it impossible and you know very well that you've made it impossible. You're working, you're against amending the law, just so you can steal in the election. If you had a majority of citizens, the calm souls would accept that we are discussing this law and changing what is wrong. What's wrong with the record being scanned immediately at the polling station when the count is over, so all citizens know what the results are? Why are we letting the results change through the records? Who does that suit? Why are you forcing citizens to seek justice on the street and bring us back to electoral chaos?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26743	You're bringing the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26744	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26745	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Bill on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the Selection of National MPs, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 29 September 2017. Does MP Nenad Konstantinovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26746	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after the presidential elections, when we identified new irregularities in the election process, we proposed a new amendment to the laws to remove all irregularities that occurred in the presidential elections. I will remind you that we are a member of the OSCE and that we respect the OSCE and that our country has chaired the OSCE. After the presidential elections, we received a report from the OSCE and we incorporated all their recommendations in the draft amendments and amendments to the law. The OSCE has proposed to correct the lack of clear provisions on the provision of powers to institutions that will enable them to control and monitor the implementation of the electoral process. It's contained in this law. So they have to provide equal opportunities in the competition and have to separate statesmen from party activities in campaigns. So, gentlemen, you've led to an absurd campaign. One candidate had 92% of media participation in the previous elections, and the other 8% in total. What fair elections are we talking about, if one candidate is represented in the media 92% and all the other 8%? Well, there's an election theft. Election theft is already in the campaign, unfair and unfair conditions. They have nothing to ask for ministers in the technical mandate when elections are called. When elections are discussed, who can run the campaign, not black limo ministers, to run a campaign in Serbia. State bodies should not interfere with media and journalists' activities. Well, is there a country where more state bodies interfere with what media and journalists do? An effective legal remedy mechanism must be provided for the electoral procedure. There is no legal remedy against instructions that you bring to one part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia that is not subject to the Law on selecting Members of Parliament. You suspended the law in one part of the territory and allowed a large number of polling stations for all participants not to have members of the election boards. You decided not to count at the polling station, but to drive the sacks somewhere else, so they count there. Where did you get the right to do that? Here's a recommendation from the OSCE that it has to be corrected. So we suggested all of this in this law. You don't allow it because you're bringing us into a new election theft, and we have the election in just three months.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26747	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Bills on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Local Elections, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 6 October 2017. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26748	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are going to have the Belgrade elections, so local elections, and we have proposed amendments to the Law on Local Elections. What we can all assume is that, as in the previous presidential, as in parliamentary elections, public debate will not be allowed for the city's elections either. The fundamental right is that all participants in the elections can come to a public debate and that their political opponents face views and opinions. The SNS presidential candidate didn't show up in any duel. Does this mean that no mayoral candidate is allowed to appear in any duel? So we suggest that televisions with national frequencies be obliged to organise round tables, organise public debates and face candidates. We also propose that tens of millions of euros be no longer spent on media campaigns, but that the media space that will occupy political parties, equally, be paid from the budget directly to television. This saves money and thus enables everyone to participate equally in the campaign. How do we have fair elections, if one party, the SNS, spends nearly 20m euros in the campaign, and other political parties do not have 100 000 euros to spend on the campaign, have no one to get those 100,000 euros, because all the money flows are closed, because everyone in this country is afraid to give money to the opposition political party, because they are afraid that the tax police will enter tomorrow and close their company or charge their fine? So why can't we agree on the equal participation of everyone in the media and get paid to everyone in the state budget in the same way? The government of the Republic of Serbia, however, has responded to this proposal for a law on local elections, although it has not responded to any other, I mean the amendment to the Law on the election of MPs. It's better they didn't answer anything, because this answer is a shame. It is said that it is not possible to enter into the text of the law without laying down specific rules of procedure, as well as without the approval of funds from the budget and the purpose of our proposal to scan records at polling stations. The government says there's no money for scanners, no money for computers, so he can't do it, get into the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26749	Thank you, colleague Konstantinovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26750	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, here I am, in front of the SDS parliamentary group – The People's Party, for almost two years now, trying to propose this law on the agenda, but you do not want to put it on the agenda, but, therefore, at a session starting today on the budget, you have proposed 27 amendments, or the law, by an urgent procedure proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, I suggested that this law, since it is about students and young talents, suggests someone from the ruling party or the government of the Republic of Serbia, even the minister of education promised me, when he answered the question that he would include it in legal proposals, however, there is still no such thing. So I'm asking to allow normal scholarships of students and students who scholarship local self-government and to comply with the Law on Student Standard for the Law on Local Self-Government. You do not want to accept it and, of course, you are talking about how much you really care about knowledge in Serbia, how much you care about intellectual potential. All countries in the world view intellectual potential as one of the greatest potentials besides gold, besides oil and other things. We, unfortunately, do not consider it, or you, as the Government, that this is important. Today we are witnessing that young people are leaving Serbia because they can't even get a job after their studies and because their seats have been taken by various Mise Vasici and various waiters who solve the fates of the largest economic systems in Serbia, drivers, drivers, drivers, and those most talented go as intellectual potentials in other countries. Today we also talk about Serbia being empty, that fewer people are born every year in Serbia. Last year, at least people in Serbia were born after World War I. So, you don't even want to go into the budget, which we're going to discuss in the coming days, to predict the funds for it, because you say, or Minister Djordjevic, that money for the third child would bring down the country's financial stability. But that's why you have money for former President Tom Nikolic's office for 50m euros to predict in the budget just so he has something to do and you have the means to predict for a gondola in Belgrade, 360m dinars and you have 15 billion dinars to predict on the basis of violations of courts, i.e. by penalties...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26751	Would you like to talk about the bill?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26752	Mr. Arsic, I talk about the law all the time...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26753	I know, there's a law on funding local self-government, and you're talking about the Law on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26754	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26755	You want to explain why you want it on the agenda?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26756	I obviously have a problem with you or you with me, because whenever I talk, you interrupt me, you don't understand me, so please don't do it, I'll sue you for mobing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26757	You don't have a problem with me, you don't seem to know what you're suggesting. I'm putting this motion to a vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Here's a colleague of Alexic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26758	For the past five years, the SNS authorities have been able to paint themselves in constant and permanent lies, to help entrepreneurs of the Republic of Serbia, and even in 2016, you declared a year of entrepreneurship, said you would change over 40 different legal proposals that would facilitate the business of domestic businesses. Unfortunately, none of this happened. That is why I propose by who knows which time is the law that every taxpayer who in the current year employs workers indefinitely to free himself from tax payments, will base the income tax on the amount of taxes paid and contributions per employee, as well as that those who set up their firms in underdeveloped business areas of Serbia will be exempt for a period of three years from paying taxes on profits. I'm glad you put one part of this through this set of laws that's going into debate over the next few days, but that's not enough. I think it was better that you accepted this legislative proposal, because it fits Serbia's needs in a better and better way. That the situation in the economy and among domestic economic operators in Serbia is disastrously showing that today in the Republic of Serbia you have 36,962 blocked companies, which is 30% higher than in 2016, at the cost of the 2.5 billion-euro blockade. One reason is that the state owes 33 billion dinars, money to recover VAT from our businesses. In the King alone, over 90 million dinars are owed to three companies, and these companies are forced to fire workers, to shut down business, to close down their firms, and that is the way you want to help domestic businessmen. On the other hand, and in the budget for next year, you have foreseen 12 billion incentives for foreign companies coming here to Serbia, and our companies are not in that budget, because you base your business on foreign companies and should not be surprised that in Serbia today workers receive the lowest minimum earnings in the region, below all countries, and Montenegro, Macedonia, BiH, Croatia and all others. Today, even the average salary in the Republic of Serbia, which is also the lowest in the region, is smaller than the earnings received by workers in Angola, Libya, Zambia, Congo, Swaziland, Jibuti, Ivory Coast and Tanzania. This is the result of your economic financial recovery to Serbia. Alexander Vukic's government, according to all economic financial criteria from 2014 to 2017, has been convincingly the worst since 2000. All prime ministers had greater GDP growth and better macroeconomic indicators than the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26759	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the session on the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the situation in the media after the privatisation process, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Marko Djurisic, Goran Bogdanovic, Miroslav Aleksic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic on 17 May 2017. The word is Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26760	Thank you. So, on 17 May, I applied for the establishment of a polling committee to investigate the situation in the media after the privatisation process. This poll committee that you do not want to support, and in this way you are actually showing that you are not ready to talk openly today about the state of the media, should answer who privatised the media in Serbia, which these parties are close to, whose money they privatised, what the media situation is today, in what conditions media workers in Serbia are doing today, but unfortunately you do not want to put it on the agenda. So, you don't want because you have absolute media control today, because besides the media you control, the national media at Serbia level put your paws and absolute control on all local media in Serbia, which you bought with the funds and money of Serbian citizens from the local budget and which you finance, through cobajagi project financing, also from the city budgets and municipalities in Serbia, as if these are the private budgets of those SNS representatives who manage them today. Today you could also see a statement from media associations that also said that the project financing that you provided for media funding is a corrupt mechanism for financing media close to authorities. With this set of laws, you've only replaced the ownership control of the media with financial control. Today you control all those media in Serbia, which are close to you. You make headlines for them, you tell them what they need to publish, and the opposition has absolutely no treatment to go to their citizens and say what they think about the state of Serbia. A million Serbian citizens voted in favour of opposition parties in the last presidential elections. They deserve the truth. They deserve the truth that you don't allow to say, and in doing so, you usurp, financially support, and you finance the media that suits you. So you have an example of the City of Belgrade, which, for example, singled out 80,000,000 dinars for media funding. Among those 80,00,000 dinars were found with 5,000 "Alo", "Informer", "Serbian Telegraph", even some associations of rock musicians from Serbia, some companies that were directly ahead of the media co-financing contest, but were not found, say, "Beta", "media Center", "Blic", "Blic", "Today", and many other media that are only professionally and objectively doing their job. You're stepping straight today. You are trampling out the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have the right to be truly and timely informed of everything that is going on in their country. Therefore, you can expect nothing more from you than to continue to crush institutions and destroy everything you have found in the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26761	I thank my colleague Alexic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26762	This law, which I propose to transfer part of the property tax that is collected in the territory of towns and municipalities in Serbia, in the amount of 80% directly to local communities' accounts, so that they, through this kind of financial decentralisation, decide themselves on priorities and projects that should be implemented in their territories. But you, years ago, here we are in the sixth year that the SNS is in power, just a declaration of decentralisation, not to mention financial decentralisation. So, in the five years of the year, we're plowing into bigger and bigger centralization, into increasing and greater control of all levels of government, and even to the level of local communities. Every year, permanently, you increase the jurisdiction of local self-government, and you take away their funds. In this budget, which will be ahead of us in the coming days, 10,000,000,000 will reduce revenues by two basis cities and municipalities in Serbia. By law on the financing of local self-government, which you adopted last year, that is, this year, I apologize, you also reduced 9,000,000,000 dinars to cities and municipalities. You permanently use these mechanisms and levers of centralization and abuse in the SNS campaign. You abuse it during election campaigns. Use institutions in election campaigns because you do not want any decentralisation. You're not even ready to talk about changing the electoral law, so today it won't be Alexander Vukic on posters in Mionica, Negotina or any other city, as if he were going to be their mayor. Go out with our representatives, go out with those quality people you have at the bar. Let them be the ones to fight for their seats. They will run their cities, not Alexander Vukic, or any other leader of any party. But you can't do it because you're afraid. Because you use media for manipulation, for permanent propaganda, for 95% of the time Alexander Vukic and SNS have in the media, so you can lie and deceive Serbian citizens about some results in the last five years. Of all these, the results that are official will be worse and worse on the situation in Serbia, both on democracy and on freedom of the media and financial and economic indicators. Because you don't want to decentralised Serbia, so today they're shutting down villages in Serbia, so our cities are slowly dying, and that's why people are leaving Serbia. Well, we shouldn't be surprised that 58,000 each year, or last year, just left Serbia. In this year, it is assumed that this amount, this number of people, is actually going to be even larger. This shows that you only want to take care of you, not the citizens of Serbia. Those of you who have managed Serbia today and for the past five years are certainly much better than before, but ask yourselves a little and go through Serbia as it is today for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26763	I thank my colleague Alexic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point of m- Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 16 September 2016. Here you go, colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26764	I thank the chairman. On behalf of the SDS-NS parliamentary group, I am trying to put this law on the agenda almost two years ago, which concerns incentives in agricultural production and for a reason because today in 630,000 agricultural holdings in Serbia are working and living over a million and a half people. Unfortunately, you have only been reducing incentives for farmers in Serbia since you came to power, and so I suggest increasing incentives to this law and to plant production and to milk premiums and regresses to diesel fuel as well as to seeds and other re-promatter. Unfortunately, you, apart from the empty stories and the lies you've been telling farmers in the last five years, have nothing to do with it. I remind you that in your White Paper that you published before 2012, you said that every year you would increase the amount in the budget allocated to farmers by one percent. Then the budget was 5%, and today it's 4%. So you, not that you haven't singled out one percent more than you've even reduced it. In the proposal for a new budget, we also have a reduction in the allocation for agriculture below five per cent as defined by law. In parallel, you did not save funds, nor did you save our steam and farmers when you gave land to various white companies such as some phantom company Al Rawed, who owns today with ten thousand hectares of working orans in Vojvodina, of which three and a half thousand hectares in the military facility Morovic in Karadjordev. They should have said that then Prime Minister Vukic taught us agriculture, how to achieve higher offerings and so on, and as far as I hear today, they learn it from our couples who have three times more offerings than they have. Also, there is a serious question as to who owns this land today since it is mentioned that there is no answer from the state what our benefits are to give the company 10 thousand hectares except that Prime Minister Andrej Vukic's brother is learning agricultural production there by processing those orans. So that's something you need to answer to farmers and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The farmers didn't get any support after these droughts, nor did they get any after the flood. Simply, they only represent a safe voice for you when the elections come and you have to go again to promise them that you will increase the agrarian budget before some new elections, and here they are obviously new in a few months. So this resource that we have in agriculture is not used, and unfortunately, not only threatens the existence of farmers in Serbia but also causes damage to the general GDP of the Republic of Serbia, because for you agriculture has been nothing for five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26765	"I thank my colleague Alexic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on corporate tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does MP Goran Ciric want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Goran Ciric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26766	The Democratic Party has filed four amendments to the law. I'll introduce them to you with one high goal for all of us, I'm sure of it. This is, above all, a fairer social distribution and a fairer regional distribution. Starting from the fact, and I'm sure we'll agree here, that in Serbia, one of the biggest problems, if not the biggest at the moment, is the increase in poverty and data that we have to go from when we analyse these proposals, is that the average salary is about 47,000, that the new consumer basket is 70,000 dinars, and the minimum consumer basket is 36,000 dinars. That the poverty line of the four-member family is 31,500 dinars, which means that the family lacks 4,500 dinars for the minimum consumer basket. I can see there's not much interest or deepening in these subjects because I'm sure we're tired, but at the beginning we don't accept any proposal from the opposition. I think it is also important to initiate these talks on poverty in Serbia, as it was affected below the poverty line by about 7.3% of the population of 560,000, and among them 100,000 children. As a result, DS has repeatedly proposed laws and amendments to budgets for free lunches, and at least the possibility of these 100,000 children getting at least one free meal, as it is obvious that these statistics show that they live below the poverty line. The proposal for this Law on corporate tax has been made to make the corporate tax rate variable compared to the salary level paid by employers. Here the goal is to keep all those employers who pay 80 to 150% of the average wage in the statistical region in which the business keeps the current tax rate, which is 15%, to de-stimulate those who raise their profits at the expense of low wages, and thus de-motivate and bring to the great social challenge of their employees, and those who pay their salary below 80% that the tax rate is 30% to the next tax account, and that for all those who pay more than 150% of that rate is stimulating and 10%. We think that this way we can stimulate employers to pay their workers more, and thus reduce social differences.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26767	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Does Mr. Ziric want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26768	Once again, the aim of the amendments and the draft of these laws is primarily to establish a fairer social distribution in the Republic of Serbia, but also to make regional distributions fairer, taking into account the rise in poverty in Serbia. This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax includes, above all, the inclusion of dividend incomes in incomes subject to annual income tax. Therefore, the intention is to mitigate social inequality among citizens, and to carry out fiscal coverage with a desire for vertical and horizontal justice in taxation. So, I'll just say it again. Here it is understood that dividends enter the total income of citizens and are taxed, so they are paid a 15% one-time tax at this time, and with this proposal that we made in the previous amendment of the law, a scale of 10, 15 or 30% would be introduced with re-stimulation that good employers reward their workers with higher salaries. We think that this would make us a fairer redistribution and that the challenge we have at this point, and I will repeat it again. A four-member family with two children under the age of 14 lives below the poverty line with 31,500 dinar revenues. If the minimum consumer basket is 36,000 dinars, they are missing 4,500 dinars for the minimum consumer basket. Seven and a half per cent of the population in Serbia is affected by this status. So about 7.5% is still at risk at the border, which means that it's somewhere around a million Serbian citizens at the poverty line, which includes about 200,000 children. I know all of this will not contribute to a complete solution to the social challenges in Serbia, but I hope that these amendments and additions of the law will initiate and make this Assembly more ready and will make you MPs, all of us MPs, to discuss these topics and to accept as a real topic that plagues citizens of Serbia, and in this way we find a solution. I urge you to support this proposal and discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26769	I ask my fellow Members to make a statement about this proposal. I conclude the vote and declare: for six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. Comrade Kiric, do you want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26770	I'm going to say once again, the objective of these laws is a fairer social distribution. This proposal for amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration implies, above all, the amendment of Article 58, which adds Article 2 which reads: "A special organisational part of the Tax Administration is formed by the Sublaw Act, with specially trained personnel, who would, in collaboration with other state bodies of the MUP, Catastre, National Bank of Serbia, Customs Administration, Central Charter Register of Value, APR, Treasury Department, Department for the Prevention of Money Laundering, process submitted applications as a verification of applicants who have not submitted their application." So here is, above all, the basic idea of making more efficient comparisons of individuals with their reported incomes. This bill should go to meet, I hope, soon passed a law on the origin of property. I think all parties in Serbia are expressing a declarative willingness to adopt the Property Origin Act. Last time I proposed this law, on crossing information on paid taxes and citizens' property, I cited examples, above all, of the most responsible people in the Republic of Serbia. I think we should start, right, from the most responsible people, from the president of the state, from the Prime Minister, from the President of Parliament, the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, from us MPs and many other people who need to prove the sources of their income and prove their property. This is a proposal that needs to be considered, and I'm going to give an example. In 1992, an MP who entered the Republic Assembly, had a salary of about 10 euros, 10 marks on average, 1993 at a time of hyperinflation of about five euros, later the salary of 2000 was raised, and let there be a reckoning for someone who had been sitting in parliamentary benches for 20 years from 1992 to 2012, because it would have been easy to account for those 20 years, let the average salary be 500 euros. In 20 years, in 240 months, he would receive finely paid taxes and 120 000 euros in contributions. Is it possible from those 120,000 euros, when basic costs for rent, for food, for schooling, is it possible to build large assets and should prove that property.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26771	Thank you, colleague Kiric. I ask my fellow Members to make a statement by voting on this proposal. I conclude the vote: for five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 13 September 2017. My friend Kiric, do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26772	There were several amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of local self-government. We have been facing the adoption of the budget, and we have seen that over the past few years, something has been constantly taken from the incomes of local self-government, so this year there will be reduced revenues, while in one part there will be increased expenditures, which you could see through the report and analysis of the Fiscal Council, so that local self-government in Serbia is in increasing challenges and growing problems, as far as finance is concerned. We also saw a warning from the Fiscal Council that the particularly financial situation of the largest cities, Kragujevac, Nis, Belgrade, Novi Sad, could lead to major financial challenges and the entire Republic of Serbia. You can see here a map of Serbia, where we see average earnings, where there are only four areas above the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia -- the Belgrade area, Southbanatska, Southbačka and Borska district. Everyone else is below the average wage level, and far away. In the worst condition are Pcinjska, Jablanička, Toplička, Rasinska, Zlatiborska, Westbočka, Northbonatska etc. The draft law on the financing of local self-government implies the following thing. We know that 74% of the income tax is paid towards the residence of the employee, and here is our proposal to include other tax revenues that are collected, above all, in public enterprises and the public sector, concerning all citizens of Serbia. This includes military, police, public enterprises' incomes, because all these institutions give products to all citizens of Serbia, which are security, energy, etc. So here's the idea that this privilege that the largest centres have, and where the largest institutions are mostly located, where the biggest incomes, thanks to state sources of funding, are distributed in a fair way, proportionally to the number of inhabitants, each of the cities, each of the local self-government. It is our assessment that this would cover about 300m euros annually and that any local self-government would enjoy an annual tax transfer of about 43 euros per capita. For cities of 10,000 inhabitants, this would mean 430,000 euros, school planning, health care, gardening... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26773	Thank you, colleague Kiric. I ask my fellow MPs to make a statement by voting on this proposal. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the session agenda be complemented by a draft law amending the Law on the National Bank of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 August 2017. My friend Kiric, do you want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26774	The draft law amending the Law on the National Bank of Serbia is very simple – deleted Article 86b. I will read this article, against whom we were and when the Law on the National Bank of Serbia was adopted, and it reads: "The Governor, the Vice-Governors, the Director of the Supervisory Authority and other employees are not responsible for the damage caused by the activities of the National Bank of Serbia, unless it is proved that they have not acted well." In our opinion, this is an unacceptable member, in which the governor and her closest associates in the management of the National Bank of Serbia are both apportioned of each type of responsibility. When we know the importance of the affairs of the National Bank of Serbia, the conduct of monetary, foreign policy, the management of foreign reserves, the control of the work of business banks, when we know that there is supervision of insurance companies and many other competences, then we ask ourselves how is it possible that MPs, that the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to whom only this independent institution, the National Bank of Serbia, are willing to give them advances of any responsibility? We spoke earlier about people under the poverty line in Serbia, in this attempt to amend some laws, in the fight for an additional 4.5 thousand dinars, in order to reach the level of minimum consumer baskets and feed their children, and on the other hand, in one easy way we give absolute trust to both the current governor and its current first associates, but also to all future governors, governors. I don't think that makes any sense. I'll read it one more time, and you figure it out yourself, is it logical that such a member in the Law on the National Bank of Serbia can stay. So: “The governor, the vice governors, the director of the Supervisory Authority and other employees are not responsible for the damage caused by the operation of the National Bank of Serbia, unless it is proved that they did not act well. “ Who will prove a good measure in, say, making decisions about taking a license? Here, today we have heard about the license of the insurance company Takovo from Kragujevac, about the loss of more than 400 jobs, and how do we explain to those employees who lost their jobs that there is absolutely no responsibility for the one who made such a decision? Or, in any way, give up any responsibility for all those who can decide on the management of tens of billions, how much are the foreign reserves of the Republic of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26775	Thank you, colleague Kiric. I ask my fellow Members to make a statement by voting on this proposal. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Goran Ciric, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a motion for the resolution of Maja Gojkovic of the National Assembly, which a group of 32 MPs submitted to the National Assembly on 13 April 2017. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26776	Thank you. On 13 April 2017, on behalf of the 32 MPs and MPs, I am making this proposal and the proposal was initiated at the time of the election campaign in the presidential elections early last year. So, the reason that we submitted a motion to resolve Maja Gojkovic from the post of National Assembly President at that time was to suspend the work of the National Assembly at the time of the pre-election actions, because we are sure it was an anti-constitutional decision, and its explanation was scandalous, and that is to suspend the work of the National Assembly at the time of the pre-election campaign because the National Assembly is the source of instability in society. I don't think the Serbian Parliament should and must be a source of instability. In the way it is guided, it certainly promotes instability in society, but the appointment of this session in some way shows the relationship from the first day of the constitution of this Republic’s Assembly. We remember that, at that time, the oldest MP Dragoljub Micunovic, chairing the constitutional session, suffered great violence and attacks because at one point at 19.00 hours he informed that the Assembly's continuation and constitution would continue the next day, that at that moment he had suffered violence in accusations that he had attempted a coup in the Republic of Serbia. After that, 50 days are not scheduled for the Republic Assembly and no one was responsible for it. The appointment of this most important session in the year, when the Law on the Republic of Serbia for 2018 is adopted, is something that, above all, shows the president's attitude towards, above all, the opposition's MPs. Do you think it's logical and normal that the representatives of the opposition don't know when to discuss the budget, that there's no college in which we're going to discuss the way this session is going to be held, that we have this atmosphere today, that you're in one awkward situation to sit and maintain the quorum, that you're listening to the proposals of our laws, and everything could have been more effective if at least 10 of the opposition's laws had been adopted in this year and a half, in order to reduce these proposals, in order to have more efficient work, less anxiety both on the one hand and on the other? Was it difficult to accept the law on the proposal not to delay the crime of stealing babies or to propose a ban on the release of the most severe diseases?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26777	Thanks, buddy. I ask my fellow MPs to make a statement by voting on this proposal. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, is one for seven, against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Alexander Chabrai, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Cultural Goods, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 May 2017. Here you go, colleague Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26778	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I made a proposal in May to amend the Cultural Goods Act. It's just that I have to mention this every time that I think maybe this bill is only when we're talking about culture in this assembly at all. I'm all waiting to see that it's changed, but unfortunately for months, not to say a year and a half, I really don't remember any part of the agenda that was dedicated to culture in a narrow sense, especially cultural goods, which we all know are in the state of Serbia. What is the state of this cultural good story and the fact that this law was passed in 1994 has almost not changed at all until today. So, you have, say, cases where for damage or unconscious treatment of cultural goods you can get a fine of, say, 700 or 800 dinars. I'm really asking you to ask yourself, not to mention that this law, as it is, does not apply at all, and that I don't know that it has ever been applied and that anyone has ever responded because it has caused any damage to cultural goods, I ask you to ask yourself if you think that such punishment can deter, not only deter any of the unconscious treatment and damage to cultural goods, but can it even cause anyone to consider how they will treat cultural good Serbia? I ask you to understand that this is no political request at all. I am sure that, if not all of you, I believe that there are many people who care about the cultural good of Serbia being preserved, because we certainly know that every country, every civilized country in the world, is recognised by that. Culture is an identity, making an identity of a nation. What I'm looking for right now is just to put this on the agenda, to discuss whether it makes sense to amend the Cultural Goods Act. What really defeats me is the fact that not only have we never talked about culture, but I am absolutely sure that this debate could not harm anyone, and it could protect and prevent the collapse of many cultural goods in Serbia, which definitely nobody here cares about, even those who have to do so. Let's remind ourselves once again that it's something that can't be compensated. Everything can be compensated, it can be developed and the economy can be compensated for anything that fails, but these are things that can never be compensated.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26779	Thank you. I ask my fellow MPs to make a statement by voting on this proposal. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, is in favour of—four against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Aleksandra Cabraj, Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic and Zoran Zivkovic, on the basis of Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 17 November 2017. Here you go, colleague Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26780	Thank you. Recently in this assembly, we discussed education laws, and on that occasion we submitted an amendment that suggested that Serbia's high school become mandatory. I believe you remember this debate well, because she was very recently. On this occasion, when we mentioned such a proposal, you probably remember that not only did the entire opposition, as far as I can remember, supported this proposal, but many MPs from the position, including the minister himself, including the chairman of the Assembly and many others said that this proposal was good. Not only that, but it has been said, it is still said that something like this could be introduced in any case in Serbia. This should certainly be done, because many developed countries have it, many countries in the environment have it. It would be Serbia's responsibility to make recommendations. I believe there is absolutely no one in this country to whom it could harm. What's more, this wouldn't even cost a lot of money, because it's known that around 90% of the students are in high school after school anyway. Not to say how important it is, progress for education, for culture, for one general progress of the state to make high school compulsory. What I have to say again, what I said before, what disappoints me is that you don't want to understand at all, dear colleagues, and I believe that there are among you who think this is a good proposal, that this is a good proposal, that it should be adopted, is that you don't even want to accept even putting on the agenda one such proposal that I don't think anyone can say it's politicized, I don't think anyone can say it's a provocation, I don't think it can hurt anyone. I have to conclude that the only reason you don't even want to discuss this is because you're saying yourself that you're going to do it in due course, is because this is the proposal that comes from the opposition's ranks. I ask you to ask yourself if you have to reject everything that is proposed and whether it might be even in your interest to accept at least one of these proposals that we make here every day in this Assembly and to prove that you are really ready, if nothing else, then for a democratic debate, for a democratic dialogue and to accept at least, here, I call you, it doesn't even have to be my proposal. Accept any good proposal that comes from the opposition. That'll do you the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26781	Thank you. I ask my fellow MPs to make a statement by voting on this proposal. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragan Vesovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the proposal for a declaration on the protection of Serbian language, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Miladin Ševarlic and Dragan Vesović on 13 October 2017. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26782	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since we've been going on for a long time, I can see that there's been a slight drop in tenacity and attention. I'm going to start a little bit unserious, and then I'm going to actually make the story as serious as possible. Proposal for a declaration on the protection of Serbian language. When they talked about what the Serbian people gave to world history, it was said, among other things, that we gave them electricity, not to sit in the dark, that we invented plums, that they could cheer up, but perhaps the greatest achievement is the Serbian language. Probably the language, the only one in the world, where every letter has its own sign, where we speak as we write and as it's written we read. The true story is that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters protects our Serbian language, our great national treasure, but the idea of the Serbian Movement of the Dveri is that, by one declaration by the National Assembly, as the largest legislative body of this state, we should give a new incentive to do some things and leave them in an even better way. In some of the last ten years, 15 years, we have witnessed that, especially in the surrounding countries, there is a constant tendency that what is originally Serbian is being wronged us and stolen from us. I spoke last time, again, that in the neighbouring Republic of Croatia hundreds of thousands of people are rising to break a board with a Cyrillic inscription. The fact that the Serbian literary language has two excuses - Ekva and Ichavahski, becomes the subject of taking this second excuse and making, call, languages that are absolutely unique to the Serbian language in the surrounding countries. The fact that, for example, in Montenegro, they end the Serbian language, and everything that is Serbian is being thrown out of large parts of the famous Serbian writers of the past period, and it is a great reason why the National Assembly should bring such a declaration, thus ensuring what is ours and what ours should remain. I find it completely unclear that someone's declaration is intruding just because it comes as a proposal from the Serbian Dvora Movement. I publicly use the opportunity to tell the ruling majority that she can take this declaration and propose as her own, and the Serbian Dvori Movement will certainly vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26783	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragan Vesovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by points - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić, Marija Janjušević, Miladin Ševarlić, Dragan Vesović on 14 November 2017. Here you go, colleague Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26784	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will always, after refusing such a declaration, express my dissatisfaction and I don't know how to interpret it, but if. I'm just afraid that one day when we realize that's what we're supposed to do so we're not too late. This second proposal, i.e. the second addition to the agenda, is the draft law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act. Since I've seen that there's no way to hear that story, I'm absolutely sure there was no sense in even reading what it says here. Therefore, the amendments to the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, which was published in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia" No. In the 75th of 2014, there was a reduction of members of the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund's Management Board where then the number from 21 members was reduced to seven members. When it was done, of these seven members came to the point where four members were appointed by the Government, one member was appointed from the insurance order on a proposal from the representative union, one member was from the employers' order, and on a proposal from the representative Association of Employers, and one member was from the order of users of the right to propose the Pensioners' Association. We don't think the Management Board of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund should be held to this extent. So, of the seven members, there's only one authentic member of the pensioner. That is why the Serbian Dvora Movement has proposed that what has been reduced from 21 to seven members be increased to 15 members, with five members now, according to our idea, being from the pensioners' ranks, five members from the insurance order on a proposal from the representative union, two members from the employers' ranks, and one from the Union of Employers' Union, and one member from the ministry responsible for jobs related to pension and disability insurance. Of course, this would allow for greater interference of persons who are truly beneficiaries of pensions and greater decision-making on the board, but unfortunately, probably, would prevent those devastating measures that were made with that so-called law. temporarily reducing pensions, which at that time did not suit someone, so otherwise these two laws went in the package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26785	I ask my fellow MPs to make a statement by voting on this proposal. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragan Vesovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session to the point – Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the temporary arrangement of the way the pensions were paid, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Miladin Ševarlić and Dragan Vesović on 14 November 2016. Here you go, colleague Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26786	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, you saw today, and you witnessed that various opposition groups have proposed something similar with the desire to do something that has been applied since 28 October 2014, so more than three full years, and it is called temporary, once and for all, to be changed. Article 20. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed that the level of human rights cannot be changed. The achieved level of human rights is the level of pension that is in the way of this so-called. temporary law changed, but what's the biggest problem here? The biggest problem with this law is that there's no telling how long it's gonna take. One kind of discrimination was also made, because when pensions were reduced, under the circumstances, temporarily, to a greater extent, pensions were reduced to those who had higher levels of pensions, which were, as a rule, people who had higher vocational education, working on more responsible jobs during their working days, and thus paid more into the pension fund and thus deserved their pensions to be more. So, the classic kind of discrimination that has been made against them. Why is it so done? It can, according to Article 58. The Constitution, to make a temporary reduction in pensions, but with the obligation to repay the cash taken at the time when the reason for that temporary reduction ceases to exist. This law does not provide for that variant either. So the money was taken free of charge. What's interesting is that we now have a situation, especially in the last year, to talk about that we've never had a more stable financial situation, that the budget is never fuller and, instead of the fact that the law of this kind on the most vulnerable and vulnerable population of the Republic of Serbia is breaking down, we have in two cases, in the last three years, giving a kind of charity of five thousand dinars, so that people don't realize that what has been taken is somehow restored. So this proposal, submitted by the Serbian Movement Dvori, was not a proposal that went only from us, but was made in co-operation with the Association of Retirement Unions of Serbia, the Association of Unions of Retired Military Persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26787	I thank my colleague Vesovic. I ask my fellow Members to make a statement about this proposal. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragan Vesovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point-by-point proposal for a decision on the education of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's polling committee to determine the facts and circumstances related to the events during the 2017 election process from the day of the call of presidential elections until the day of publication of the provisional election results at 99.9% of polling stations, which were submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Miladin Ševarlic and Dragan Vesovic, 20 April 2017. Does colleague Vesovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26788	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The proposal for education of this survey committee and the proposal for education of the next survey committee are very similar. Namely, the reasons for education these two polling committees are something that we can call ourselves in Serbia, which we can easily call in the last ten years, a country in which an election race is constantly running and some elections are being held, they absolutely have reasons. So the legal basis is art. 68, 150. Paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, where every MP has the right to propose the formation of a committee of inquiry. We are witnessing that one of the basic reasons why a survey committee should be formed is primarily what we heard several times today, the absolute unscheduledness of the voter list. I am not in a group of those MPs who will deny that in the 2017 presidential elections, the then prime minister, and the current president has received more votes than the others. I have no problem saying this, but I am in a group of those citizens of the Republic of Serbia who say that in this election process there was a great frequency of various irregularities from the fact that even then and a few years ago and now we don't have a single voting list that was updated, that we have a huge number of people who have retired and who get regular calls to vote, that we have a large number of young people who have acquired voting rights and the ability to vote without voting, and they tell us that these are good reasons for once and for all to remove a fog from such electoral processes, and what we have suggested is that this polling committee has clear jobs that will work in each of the next election processes, which I say are very common in the country of Serbia. Therefore, he would monitor pre-election activities and point out possible irregularities in pre-election activities, control the handling of public information funds and regulate equal representation of all candidates in election processes in means of public information, propose measures to respect the equality of candidates in the presentation of their programmes, address the public in order to protect the moral integrity of each candidate in the electoral process. So, he would do whatever in the election processes, for which we have witnessed in the past few years, did not exist. That's why I think this is a matter of justice, a question of honesty and the overall interest of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26789	Thank you, colleague Vesovic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dragan Vesovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the point of the Proposal for a Decision on the Education of the Survey Committee to determine the facts and circumstances relating to the events during the 2016 election process from the day of the call of the Republic elections until the day of publication of the final results of the elections, submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Miladin Ševarlić and Dragan Vesović, 14 November 2016. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26790	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, I said earlier that this is similar to the previous one. In 2016 elections were held when, after these elections, this Parliament was established in which we are sitting today, and in which I am sitting. From that day to today, not only in this tide, but in many places where the ruling coalition was able to be advertised in one way or another, a shadow of the legitimacy of these elections and the entry of Serbia's Dvora movement into the parliament of the Republic of Serbia is cast. From the most hopeless lies, in terms of polling by the American ambassadors to having entered this or that kind of coalition, to not sitting in a way that is right in this parliament, until the force of the night of the elections, which is all notorious false, is precisely why we want to once and for all to drive this thing out into the open. So I call upon the gentlemen of the ruling coalition to vote in favour of this proposal, to form a committee of inquiry which, yes, since you claim that what I say is not true, true, will prove it as truth. In the history of parliamentaryism in all countries, it did not happen that more than 95% of the vote was counted within 48 hours, and then for the next four days, the results were damaged in order to, behold, miracles, that Serbia's Dvori movement lacked 0.25 votes to enter parliament. As a serious man, I can't believe it's true. I, as a serious man, am convinced that this is not true, and I call upon you gentlemen from the authorities to form a committee of inquiry that you, in some period after the elections, have suggested that we determine what the real truth is, so that we do not have a situation to date and who knows what day the shadow of doubt stands on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26791	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ivan Kostic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda to the point of the proposal for a declaration on the protection of Cyrillic and the preservation of Serbian-based literary and cultural treasures, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić, Marija Janjusevic, Miladin Ševarlic and Dragan Vesović on 13 October 2017. Does my colleague Kostic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26792	People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, if it were luck today, we wouldn't even consider a declaration on the protection of the Cyrillic. However, since we haven't formed our identity since 1945, we haven't made a strategy on preserving the national values of the Dvora movement is obliged to propose such declarations, a declaration on the protection of Cyrillic and the preservation of the literary and cultural treasures of the Serbian language created on the Latin. We talked here last time about the importance of Cyrillic. I would just mention how important the Cyrillic is to mark the preservation of our identity and that it was precisely all the occupiers who came to Serbia-Montenegro's premises in 1916 and 1941 that the first measure they did was that it was forbidden for Serbian children to write on Cyrillic. It's just proof of how important Cyrillic is to us, and how important it is to our generations. There is one thing that may create confusion here, so it is necessary to present to the citizens of Serbia what it is about, which is to preserve the cultural treasure of the Serbian language created on the Latin. We talked last time about what Austro-Hungarian did in the mid-19th century by creating a Latin where we have already said that Latin is not the original Serbian letter, and that is why the Dvora movement feels it is necessary to protect all the works that Serbian writers wrote on the Latin because in international standards among the languages using Latin letters, no Serbian language is listed, which is why everything that has been written in the Serbian language in the world's library funds is written in Croatian cultural heritage. So all that Serbian writers from the space of Austro-Hungarian times in the late 19th century wrote on Latina today are formulating themselves in the world libraries as if it were written by Croatian writers and poets. That is why it is necessary for everything written on the Latin to be protected, and that is why one of the points of this declaration is that the National Assembly is obliged to collect from the competent state authorities urgently and preserve the entire literary treasure of the Serbian language that should be transferred to the basic letter of the Serbian language – Cyrillic and thus preserve it for the future. So we have to do it so that we don't experience today and that we're being stolen by Nikola Tesla, that all our greats are being stolen from the space of the former Austro-Hungarians. It's not that we're being stolen from Nikola Tesla, that all our greats are being stolen from the space of the former Austro-Hungarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26793	Thank you, colleague Kostic. I ask my fellow MPs to make a statement by voting on this proposal. I conclude the vote: for - four, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ivan Kostic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Declaration of the National Assembly on the Protection of Serbs in Dispersion and the region, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Miladin Ševarlić and Dragan Vesović, 12 September 2017. Does my colleague Kostic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26794	We have talked here many times about the position of Serbs in the region and our diaspora, and we can conclude that the situation is not ideal in the region, nor in the diaspora. What is important is that Serbian citizens should know that one third of the entire Serbian people live outside Serbia's borders. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, about five million of our country's people live outside the borders of our country. What rights these people are and how they have been treated since 1945 should not be spoken to today, except it might be important to stress that by 2000, members of the Serbian diaspora were treated as state enemies and that we could not have expected more serious involvement of these people in the political social flows of the Republic of Serbia. We are still waiting to see when the Serbian nation's protection declaration comes on the agenda. Again, there has been a promise that it will be in November, but nothing has happened on this issue yet. It is also important to say that the state strategy on the preservation of Serbian identity and Serbs in the region in its plan did not foresee the opening of Serbian cultural centres in the countries of the region, and it is regrettable that we now have only one Serbian cultural centre in the world in Paris. The plan and strategy the Dvora Movement proposes is that in every major city in which the Serbian community, the foreign ministry and the Republic of Serbia are to open Serbian cultural centres. Both in Budapest and in Vienna and in Trieste and Podgorica and Skadra, and in such a way that these places are the centers of gathering our countrymen who, unfortunately, enjoy extremely small and low human and collective rights in the countries of the region. What I would also like to say from this declaration, which is a member of the 8th that says - the diplomatic consular representations of the Republic of Serbia worldwide are obliged to work to reconcile and integrate all Serbian organisations, as well as to open new additional schools for learning Serbian language in our embassies and consulates. Unfortunately, there is no unity among Serbian organisations in the diaspora today. We are witnessing that many organisations are divided, that there is no unity between many organisations in the diaspora, whose founders are Serbian citizens, no collective decision. That is why it is necessary for the foreign ministry to form and organise in each country a national organisation of Serbs where all Serbs will be obliged to join and contribute jointly. Whoever doesn't want to be part of that national organization won't be able to participate in any...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26795	Thank you, colleague Kostic. I ask my fellow Members to make a statement about the proposal. I conclude the vote: for - five, against - no one, with abstentions, has. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ivan Kostic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on the genocide of an independent state of Croatia against Serbs, Jews and Roma during World War II, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjušević, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić and Dr. Dragan Vesović, 14 November 2016. Does Ivan Kostic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26796	Chairman, I'm sorry you haven't given me another 15 seconds and shown me a little patience, because it's extremely serious what our diaspora's position is and how incompatible abroad. That's all I wanted to say, is that the Foreign Office has to work on it. As for the resolution on genocide against the Serbian, Jewish and Roma people in World War II, why does the Serbian Dvora Movement suggest that this resolution be on the agenda? Because neither today after 75 years nor our historians, and especially the international public did not come up with concrete things about what was happening in the independent state of Croatia. And today we have Croatian historians who go out in their voices and claim that 40,000 people died in Jasenovac. We also have constant untruths about the Serb people's strategies in World War II that have not been explored to this day, which existed between the two world wars, were again buried in the 1990s with the arrival of the non-Statian government headed by Franjo Tudjman. Today we have the opportunity to see that the international court of injustice in The Hague has also made it clear that the government in the Republic of Croatia participated in crimes in Herceg Bosnia during the 1990s. So it is necessary that a resolution like this finally be found on the agenda of the Serbian Parliament, as this has not been discussed backwards for 75 years, neither in any legislative body nor in the SFRY, nor in Serbia. It should also be pointed out that the production of this declaration was attended by extremely prominent experts such as Prof. Kosta Cavoski, Smilja Avramov, Vasilija Krestic, and that surely these people with their long-standing scientific training have the right to participate in writing this declaration and to make it clear to the Serbian public how important this matter is for the future of the Serbian people. Last time I said it, I repeat again that right now it may be a political moment for Serbian diplomacy to go into an offensive, to present this resolution in international circles in international circles, and to finally put this resolution in the UN as a part of the agenda. When we prove that the Croats, the NDH in World War II, made a genocide policy, then we will finally clear Serbia's citizens, from Serbian politics in the past 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26797	Thank you, colleague Kostic. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ivan Kostic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a declaration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the protection of the family in Serbia, submitted by the National Assembly by the MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic and Dr. Dragan Vesovic, 17 October 2017. Does Ivan Kostic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26798	How serious this is for the survival of the Serbian nation is best said that the government in the budget for next year has also allocated more funds for the issue of demographics and for some measures concerning the repair of the demographic position of the Serbian people. Also, it should be said here in front of everyone that Health Minister Zlatibor Lončar also positively assessed the Serbian Movement of the Dvora on Family Protection and sent an official document about it. This is an extremely important thing and we believe that the absolutely correct thought of the great Russian writer Alexander Solzhenicin, who said that only the country whose population is increasing is progressing. This has been confirmed by many people, it is a fact and only those countries are making progress both economically, economically and politically. Unfortunately, in Serbia, over the past ten years, the population has decreased by 385 thousand. We had a chance to hear that since World War I the smallest number of babies was born last year. These are all data that say that the state of Serbia must seriously deal with concrete measures on resolving the demographic problem in Serbia. The current birth rate per woman in Serbia is 1.45 per child. In order for us to preserve this trend in the growth of the Serbian nation, each woman on average must have 2.1% per child. It's impossible to do with this kind of state policy, and only with three children would we be able to get out of this negative natural culture. It is therefore necessary to implement many concrete measures, which are not only related to the sphere of social policy, but must be specifically pro-proliferation measures for which the Dvora Movement is advocated and which are contained in this declaration. In particular, the family must be guaranteed by the Constitution, that the guarantee of national survival is a basic economic unit without which there is no sustainable development and progress of society and state. What has happened to us over the past 50 years in Kosovo is exactly why we now have a problem with our southern territory. If the state's policy was then to encourage the birth of children to KIM, we would not be in a situation here today to ask whether KIM is Serbian or not. But for all the MPs, I can say one positive thing, that the current greatest growth among the Serb population in KIM is. That every young family has three, four children, and that's a perspective that can bring us something positive about the statehood of KIM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26799	Thank you. I ask my fellow Members to make a statement on this proposal. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, is in favour of—four against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Radojićic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – the motion for a resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the AP Kosovo and Metohija, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić, Marija Janjusevic, Miladin Ševarlic, Dragan Vesović, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Slavisa Ristic on 15 September 2017. Does MP Zoran Radojićic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26800	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Starting with the state tradition of the Serbian people and its historical rights to AP KiM, as an integral part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, given what KIM means for our people and our country in historical, cultural, spiritual, any other aspect, and since following the illegal and illegal aggression of NATO to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as the legal predecessors of the Republic of Serbia and the occupation of the work of its state territory, the highest national goal of the Republic of Serbia is the physical return of its state borders and institutions to the territory of AP KIM. Realising that without a physical return, therefore the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia in KIM territory cannot implement a constitutional norm on a single legal order applicable in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia including KIM, respecting the principled unequivocal position of the SPC, that the state authority of Serbia must never give its consent to the estrangement of KIM, because what is taken by force is returned. So we propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to adopt a resolution on the AP KiM in which we will determine the following, I will count out of these 20 points only some of them. It is that it is not recognised and will never recognise KIM's unilaterally declared independence by illegal authorities in Pristina. That Kosovo and Metohija are an integral, inalienable part of the Republic of Serbia, which is currently under occupation, which should be notified to the international public without delay. That no citizen of the Republic of Serbia, who performs certain functions, any function, has the right to sign a binding document that will legally alienate the AP of Kosovo and Metohija as part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It undertakes the government of the Republic of Serbia to suspend any kind of communication and negotiations in Brussels and to move the negotiations into the United Nations, the Security Council of the United Nations. It undertakes the Government of the Republic of Serbia to annul all written and oral agreements reached in Brussels with representatives of Pristina's illegal authorities, with the intervention of the EU, etc. What makes this resolution that we propose specific? It is the first act to call for international agreements on the distinction between the legal predecessors of the Republic of Serbia with Albania, which is undoubtedly an argument in favour of the claim that the AP Kosovo and Metohija are part of the Republic of Serbia, bordering Albania. Also, this resolution is an act of identifying the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to mix the fight for the preservation of Kosovo and Metohija from a form of Brussels bureaucracy that operates on the principles of conditionality.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26801	Thank you. I ask my fellow Members to make a statement by voting on this proposal. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for the three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Radojčić, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – the proposal for a declaration of honour to the citizens of Serbia of non-Serb nationalities killed for the country, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Bosko Obradović, Srdjan Nogo, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić, Marija Janjusevic, Miladin Ševarlic and Dragan Vesović on 16 October 2017. Does a colleague of Radojcic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26802	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Given that the Republic of Serbia is towards the Constitution, the state of the Serbian people and all the citizens living in it, taking into account the fact that through our history, numerous members of the Serbian army of non-Serb nationality, were prominent in their courage, sacrifice in the wars we fought, especially remembering that in the Balkan wars, World War I, World War II, World War II, as well as in the country's defence wars from 1991 to 1992, warring and sacrificing for Serbia, many non-Serb nationalities died. We propose that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia bring a declaration of honor to the citizens of Serbia of non-Serb nationalities killed for the country. At the point, one would conclude that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia expressed particular respect and honour for all non-Serb nationalities, who gave their lives fighting wars on the side of the Serbian state. At point two, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia calls on the competent institutions of the Republic of Serbia to honor these heroes, by raising monuments that would mark their contribution to the fight for freedom of our common country. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia proposes that a complete list of all non-Serb nationalities, who gave their lives in the country wars be drawn up, so that their names are not forgotten. At point four, the National Assembly proposes to set a special day for the protectors of country and state unity, as a state holiday, marking the memory of all those killed for Serbia's freedom. Since the Republic of Serbia and its citizens have been exposed over the past 25 years to an unfounded and public campaign on the presence of xenophobia, intolerance, chauvinism, national impatience towards non-Serb people, especially in foreign media, we believe that the declaration should be adopted as soon as possible and thus deny all of this. Thank you. I ask my fellow Members to make a statement by voting on this proposal. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miladin Ševarlic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a declaration on genetically modified organisms and products from GMOs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 May 2017. Does MP Miladin Ševarlic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26803	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At the entrance to the “Little Siren, ” in Zemun, a poster reads:“ If you don’t know who the father is, the food in the plate is the mother of all the diseases. ” It's a good lesson for small children, but I hope for us, too, when we need to consider a declaration about GMOs and products from GMOs. There are 240 MPs living in the territory of central Serbia and Vojvodina. Of these 240 MPs, 223 MPs live in the territory of 136 municipalities and cities whose committees unanimously adopted the text of the declaration of GMOs and products from GMOs, which I proposed, first adopted by the Assembly of the City of Cačka on 30 January 2013. Then, together with the text and the text of the Green Serbian Declaration, it was adopted with the Assembly of the Municipality of Sjenica on 20 January 2016 in 136 municipalities and cities in the Republic of Serbia. It is 80.5% of local self-government, and on the territory of those local self-government there are 93% of MPs from central Serbia and Vojvodina. This is a reason to show whether we are responsible for those who chose us, whose territories we live in, whether we represent the views of local self-government on parliament or not. Also, this declaration is very important because GMOs do not comply with Halal standard, do not comply with Kosher standards, do not comply with Organic standards, do not comply with conventional agricultural production. There are even European Court rulings in Strasbourg on honey pollution by experimental genetically modified corn. The question arises what can Serbia and should do? I suggest we adopt this declaration. If we do not adopt this declaration, I call on the citizens of Serbia to collect the signatures and discuss the referendum. I see no reason why Serbian citizens cannot plead in a referendum on what they will eat and what their children will eat. For this reason, I appeal to the MPs to support the proposal of this text declaration and to look up to our Hungarian neighbours, who are very rigorous on this matter. Not to mention some other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26804	Thank you, colleague Chevarlich. I ask my fellow Members to make a statement about this motion by voting. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on National Infrastructure of Geospace Data, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government on 28 July 2017. Comrade Rističević, do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26805	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, we have witnessed that all day long we gave the quorum to a group that called us for everything and everything. There is a saying: “There is no way out of the wicked mouth, but out of the wicked mouth there is an evil word. “ There is nothing worse than an evil mind. “ There is a third saying: “The hardest thing to do is to set up your mind. “ Today we listened to my colleague Zivkovic here about disease, diagnosis, examinations. A man, his own patient, has experience in veterinary medicine, probably stabs himself with that needle when he's sanding those chickens, so for that reason he's very good at medicine, and that's why I say he's his own patient. Then we listened to strange phenomena said by Mr Radulovic and Mr Pavlovic. They were talking about psychoactive substances, and they kind of looked like a cannabis face when they were talking about cannabis. I guess I can talk about it, too. Then “heineken ” spoke of thieving. Because of that thieving, there's no infrastructure, which is here. I suggest calling Mr. Heineken an expert on petty and large thieving. He dealt with one and the other, petty thieves while he was a waiter in Palank, and these big thieves, along with Serbia's Sisavac from Glibovac, the head of the Sports Centre, through which they worked, where they sucked out 459 million, for which they were charged by the court and the D.A.'s Office in Smederev. And, Olivera was wrong last night, there are two serious processes against DS members and Olivera Jovicevic is wrong. Also, here we were listening to a colleague of Balsh, who was talking about a bad diet. Well, he's the most responsible for bad nutrition. What's he burping in front of the hungry? The man in the Maldives is flying for 25,000 euros in winter, a nighttime 1,500 euros, a lobster snack, eating caviar, and here he is worried about the poor who do not have a goblet. Well, they don't have a cup because you fly 25,000 euros in the middle of winter.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26806	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I ask my fellow MPs to make a statement by voting on this proposal. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 21 October 2016. Comrade Rističević, do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26807	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we were just listening here to Jesic talk about agriculture and budget. This is his bill. It writes nicely – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. But, please, look at the contents. The content reads – a review of the provisions of the Law on Higher Education, which is changed and complemented – the use of agricultural land. A man has mixed up two laws. Here, you can see for yourself, if you don't believe. Does anyone down there read this and see that a man put two laws into one law? Maybe that's why he studied at the Faculty of Agriculture for 12 years, from 1993 to 2005. If he hadn't come to power in 2000, the question is whether or not he would have ended it. It seems the teachers hated the child, at least I thought. But when I read this, I see why he studied for 12 years. Also, Olivera Jovicevic, as the lady's name is, is wrong when she says there were no court proceedings against this party of the former regime, the yellow calves, as you call them all, and I will say the party of the former regime - the Drpocrat party. Here, it says here that Stara Paz's Court is under trial for Mr. Jesic's apartment in Vienna because he didn't report it, and everyone here said that I was lying when I claimed he had 150 squares of penthouse. And he's talking about agriculture, and he only saw agricultural cultures when he was making a big emergency. A small one, by the way, runs out of the car. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, he is to blame for that congested, great-grandfather, Sasha Jankovic, whom they offered as President of the Republic as the best, etc., and now they all run away from him. Why is Jesic guilty? Because it's better than Sulejman, he won the dry centre of Vienna, a big square, a pair of ari, a penthouse, it costs 500,000 euros, this Konstavovic won't test it, but he didn't let his praggy sleep in his penthouse, and this poor one was cramped in that hotel room, and now everyone's running away from him. Jesic did not let him go, a large agricultural expert, who apparently robbed agriculture, because he was afraid, since he was in Vienna, if he lets the pragogia in, he could end up as the late Gojkovic, because no one would be roommate to Sashi Jankovic, in a people known as Sasa Prangii Ludulski. For these reasons, we in agriculture today have a condition that we have improved as much as we can.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26808	Thank you, colleague Rističević. I ask my fellow MPs to make a statement by voting on this proposal. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—12, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the session agenda be complemented by a draft law on the approval of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Boat Ballastic Waters and Casualties of 2004, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government on 15 November 2017. Does MP Marian Risticevic want a word? Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26809	Of course, just to get this authorized face of cannabis and apaurina started. So, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the International Convention on the Control and Management of Boat Ballast Waters and Casualties. Those who robbed the country along and across, stealing people's eyes from their heads, who sold our entire economy for 6.7 billion, those who got rich while the people were poor and today they wonder why the people were poor. Well, because those capitals that they can't even put on the market, or drink, get out of this country, the yachts are registered to these foreign countries, they don't have any consumption, and my suggestion is that we finally take that kind of capital away from them and bring it back to the country. Money should be well and properly deployed for the benefit of the poor, because the poor, which they have made, use that money by buying goods here, do not buy yachts, of which we only have ballast and smelt, because they usually register these yachts to the white world countries. Among them were those who were directors of the former regime's party, financially, who bought one hectare of the country for 20 Eurocentries, which bought 300,000 hectares for 53m euros, which today complain about investment programmes. These were the ones who issued land for vineyards, whose lease was 50 euros a year. They were the ones who issued Zivkovic's land for 40 years, without any obligation. They're the ones who let him sell that vineyard. These are the ones that allowed us to pay, since the land is the subject of restitution, another 500,000 euros. These are the ones who allowed the rent price to be 400 euros per hectare lower and thus damaged the country by another 700,000 euros. They're the ones who let the 4.5 billion donor support slip through, 4.7 billion debt-forgivings. They're the ones who mutilated the country. They're the ones who transferred the people on the income side to the expenditure side, who threw them out of the business chain. It is those who fired 400,000 people, 300,000 from production, 100,000 from services, those who made 230,000 industrial ring workers in Belgrade. These are the ones who eat lobsters and caviar in the Maldives, traveling in yachts, while the poor people suffer. They're the ones who don't even know how much the muffler costs, and they fit into a regular cuffel. Please, sir, be still. I believe the Serb mammal is watching this transmission. Be a little cultural.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26810	I ask my fellow MPs to make a statement by voting on this proposal. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Records and Data Processing in Home Affairs, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government on 12 September 2017. Does my colleague Risticevic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26811	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, draft law on records and data processing in the field of internal affairs. This law is designed for "heinken". Let's just say that we could very easily get the data how FK Jasenica, there some country club, got 72 million dinars, FK Vodice 21 million, FK Glibovac 16 million dinars. So, all these football clubs got over a million and a half euros at the time, and I think they played or the League of Champions, and our entire Super League doesn't have as much budget as the Glibovac, Vodice, Jasenica, etc. I think it's ideal for these data to be examined. Also, this one of the stream wolves that went, let's see how that fund for the promotion of human resources in Tristenik spent 55 million dinars from Dinkic and his father-in-law, which was there by some Ljubisa Knezevic, who was also a member of that association, he, father-in-law, women and mother-in-law, were also in the First Five-year-old, which they destroyed, and then through the Human Resources Fund, who had been talking about the care of the old person, had not yet been found, for three years spent 55 million dinars, it's somewhere around 2,500 pensions. When this Alexic rises to talk about unhappy pensioners, he should say that he has squandered several thousand of their pensions in three years, along with his old man, along with his mother-in-law. He should also say he ruined "The First Five-year-old". He should also say that along with this joint criminal enterprise, that's what I call them, that's what our people say – from the pastures and the Vracara grabs the money, but he'll answer. It was also that – what missed the kid the kidnapper, it welcomed parts of the theft, in a people known as the part-of-the-counter, bankruptcy manager. So that's when one of them fired the workers, hired them from the factory, left the funds empty, and then the bankruptcy managers took the rest. I'm absolutely not surprised why they defend each other and why they support each other. The only circumstance they trust is that they set up their judges by reform and deformity in 2008 and 2009 and thus got the judiciary from their party and are politically trying to be amnesty, but that, Mr. Sisavac of Glibovac, with a drink of 320 beers, won't last much longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26812	I thank you, Mr. Risticevic. I ask my fellow MPs to make a statement by voting on this proposal. When will your law be on the agenda? Is that what you're interested in? Let me check. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no votes for – 11 against – two abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. My colleague Milojic, I don't see any proposals here to supplement the agenda with the draft law on Radoslav Milojic. I don't think there's such a proposal, but I can ask my colleague Risticevic or Serbian counterpart Filipovic to write such a law. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on co-operation in the protection of natural and other disasters, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. Does my colleague Risticevic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26813	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, we as regional peace and stability leaders should cultivate good relations with everyone, even those who do not love us, even in a situation where, for example, one Bakir Izetbegovic, one of the leaders in Bosnia and Herzegovina, violates sovereignty, plays with our sovereignty. It is our obligation to keep good neighbourly relations even then, even though this state encourages more entities, more peoples and more groups. We must appreciate it for reasons that it is better to have good neighbors, good relations, than to have a high fence and do not give God any conflict. I support this agreement, because natural disasters are such that you need to come to the rescue and always a neighbor can come to you first, and that's why all these relationships with neighbors, whether they love us or not, we need to cultivate and show good will. If we couldn't reconcile dead ancestors, we wouldn't argue living descendants. And with regard to the disaster, we had one disaster where they could not help us, but helped by the citizens of Serbia. It's the government of the former regime's party, the general government of failure. It was the kind of elemental accident, they found it funny, which took away and blew away 400,000 jobs. We now have to run over all these deep waters, deep problems and shallow people who have created these problems, and the natural disasters that once happened and went on for a day or two, seven days, a month, but that disaster, which was a party to the former regime, lasted and lasted 12 years, and in Vojvodina, God, for 16 years. The consequences are inconceivable. While they were getting rich, while they took everything for themselves, which was once ours, until they left people without bread and work to wander the poor suburbs, while they made fires, poor and underpaid, their accounts grew. They are talking today about the destruction of three illegal mistresses or two, those who built their own palaces and castles, who bought their own apartments in Vienna, those who support the "captainer" who suddenly made a 320-square-square apartment, they support a man who has 300,000 euros in his account and doesn't know where he comes from, and then they're talking about an investigation into the origin of the property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26814	I thank my colleague Rističević. I ask my fellow MPs to make a statement by voting on this proposal. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for—11 against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on National DNA Register, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 September 2017. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26815	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this is a good law on the DNA register. To determine all the circumstances, and Olivera Jovicevic has once again deceived the citizens, I have made four statements in the police and the National Assembly as a citizen, in the form of, say, witnesses of various irregularities made by the protracted government of the general government of the Democratic Party. It would be good, because it would be easy to determine who wrote the laws on election regulations. There would probably be Konstantinovic here, who now says they do not comply with the regulations they have adopted. It would also be easy to determine who turned his hands in RIK, who beat up the president of the National Assembly, who was a mouse-bearer, who was a stone-bearer, very easily we would have found it, but with this DNA analysis and this register, we need to determine one of the biggest violations that one country can have, that's the parallel security service, which the former regime party, DS, these here who insulted us, the yellow teleletabi, are silent as bugs, to see how two Sasa, Sasa Jankovic and Sasa Radulovic, were described to me as being described as "Kradulović Del Boy Company". So, let's see how they built this parallel security service and determine based on DNA analysis whether the meeting was in the cabinet in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that they were responding. To respond for a simple reason why, if the parallel security service existed, Sasa Jankovic must be held accountable as a member of that service, the one called "the kidnapper" as someone who organised such a service. This is one of the biggest violations that a country can experience and see why Saša Radulovic reported in 2014 as a state official, along with his team – Pavlovic, Stevanovic and that Miroslav Milenovic, this case did not report to the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, but kept silent and kept listening to political opponents, including my smallness, my colleagues. It should definitely determine that those from the election campaign, these stone-bearers, these "twins of cabbage" pumped 25 million dinars, put them in private pockets, robbed their party. The money that was to be returned to the Republic of Serbia's budget was not returned but ended up in Bosko Obradovic's pockets...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26816	Thank you. I ask my fellow MPs to make a statement by voting on this proposal. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no three abstentions for – 11 against – three abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Acts of the World Postal Union, which was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government on 16 October 2017. Does my colleague Risticevic want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26817	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the post office has arrived, a strange dispatch has arrived, a strange letter from Nigeria. That's where the fake Shooter showed up. They're writing, a fake Shutanovac showed up, and he cheated on them. I'm thinking of answering their mail, sending in a package of real Sutanovec on condition that they have some pasture and meadow, and then they'll see that the real Sutanovac is far away and his party, to a country far more dangerous than the one who showed up and cheated on a few citizens in Nigeria. And this guy cheated on a couple of million, dipped tanks, melted armored transporters, sold boats for 100 euros. Probably from those boats, since it's easy alloys, they're probably made in Kenya for 320 beer cans and so on. The opposition's MPs are earning. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26818	Excuse me, colleague Risticevic. Fellow MPs, I beg you not to throw away. From nine o'clock this morning to 5:00 p.m., I'm listening to the government ministers present since 2012, so they're the last, worst people on the planet, and we've been silent. Now I ask you to be patient for another minute and a half, because when we've been patient for eight hours, and patience is that we listen to all sorts of things, you can last another 90 seconds. Please continue, colleague Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26819	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs will appeal to this organization because they have a lot of trouble. When they need to get their calls, they have so much real estate they don't know where to look. From now on in the post office, and this agreement should be welcomed to betray the postman's diplomatic passports, visas to all the countries, so let's say when Jesic asks them to jump to Vienna, when they're looking for Balsha so they can jump to Maldives, because they can't find them here. This MP group seemed to have been putting together a subpoena. Mostly them, and they're the mail experts. They employ the director of the post office, for three months he becomes director and buys an apartment worth 500,000 euros in Takaviska on two pedals from the post office. And today, he's sucking his mail, and he came to work in slippers, and he's raped himself. But no matter what it was, a few dozen feet, the driver had to drive it, and he had to take it to that red carpet in the mail so he wouldn't get his slippers dirty. And today, a member of the party of the former regime, I don't know why a colleague laughs like this, I don't feel like laughing when someone robbed the state, but I'm saying that your man was a three-month postmaster and bought an apartment, came from Nis, and bought a 200-square apartment, and you know it. You know that Zivkovic came to Vracar, that he bought from Koroman an apartment for 500,000 euros. I'm asking where you got the money? It's the money of robbed citizens. And you Mr. Balsha, you can burp in front of the hungry, you can eat lobsters, you can eat caviar, you can fly in winter with 25,000 euros, you can. It was all a poor thing, a paradise that paid for it. You can cry and laugh. All this will come once upon charge to Mr. Balša Bozovic, the Duke, the sheriff of Maldives.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26820	I ask my fellow MPs to make a statement by voting on this proposal. I conclude the vote: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Article 92, position 2. of Article 157(2) of Article 170 and Article 2. 192, 195, 201 and 202. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017, which was submitted by the Government; Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Treaty on the Law of the Republic of Serbia on the Social Insurance of the Government for 2017; Proposal for a Decision on amending the Financial Fund of the National Employment Service for the 2017 Act, which was submitted by the Act of the Government; Proposal for a Decision on amending and supplementing the Treaty on the Republic of Serbia's Fund for Pensions and Disability Insurance for the 2017, which was added to the Act on the Law on the Law of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, which adopted the Law on the Law of the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia, the European Parliament and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia, the EuropeanParliament , the European Parliament and the Council on the Law on Social Security of the Republic of the Republic of the EuropeanUnion , the EuropeanUnion , the European for the EuropeanParliament , the European Parliament and the EuropeanParliament , the EuropeanParliament , theCouncil , theCouncil , adopted the European Parliament and the EuropeanParliament , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , the EuropeanCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , the European Parliament and theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , the EuropeanParliament , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , the European Parliament and theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , the European Parliament and theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , the European Parliament and theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , the European Parliament and theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , the EuropeanParliament , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , the European Parliament and theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , the EuropeanParliament , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , the EuropeanParliament , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , the EuropeanParliament , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , the EuropeanParliament , the EuropeanParliament , theCouncil , the EuropeanParliament , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil , theCouncil, The law on enforcement and security, which was submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives; the proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media for 2017, submitted by the Committee on Finance and the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26821	Thank you, Chairman. The proposal that you have now put to the statement in my opinion is contrary to Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure say – The National Assembly may decide to carry out a joint principled search on several draft laws which are on the agenda of the same session, which are conditioned or are interrelated to each other, with the decision on each proposal being made separately. You have now read the motion to unite the debate on the 31st item of the agenda. You've read, it took you four minutes and 20 seconds to read the names of the 31st item of the agenda, whose union you're proposing. In addition to the finance law in the largest part, there are three agreements first, there is a proposal to give an authentic opinion, there is a proposal to give consent, for the financial plan REM, the Law on Courts, laws that absolutely do not comply with the rule in the Rules of Procedure which says they are conditioned, that the laws are mutually conditioned or that the solutions in them are interrelated. In order for the Assembly to vote on this proposal, this position of the Rules of Procedure must be fulfilled and you know very well that this is not the case. I call on you to, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that all proposals that do not comply with the Rules of Procedure will not be discussed, it is related to Article 92 on what all the Assembly declares at the beginning of the session, you will remove this proposal from the Rules of Procedure and, unfortunately, there is no longer time to submit a proposal that is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and which could go to the pooling of the points relating to the budget and the accompanying laws, then we could plead in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26822	I thank my colleague Đurisic. As you know, I am not in charge and able as chairman to assess whether something is in line with the Rules of Procedure or not. Col. Martinovic made his proposal, and the National Assembly will declare whether the proposal is in line with the Rules of Procedure or not. Does MP Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, v – 13, the abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of the proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure, the proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and the proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against – 141 people's messenger – 13 with abstention. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, established the agenda of the 5th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017, in general. We're going to work on a set agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26823	Thank you, Chairman. I'd like to exercise my right under Article 97(3). Rules of Procedure, that, as president of the Parliamentary Group, before the opening of the search, I suggest that the debate on these 31 points of the agenda, as you have just adopted, where I repeat to you, only to read the titles of these laws, take four minutes and 20 seconds, to extend, or to double time. I think that, at the very least, it is the minimum that the ruling majority should do, in order to preserve the minimum dignity of the Assembly's work and the debate on the 2018 budget, which again came before the MPs with a month's delay, when a minimum of 15 days has broken again, how long it should go from submitting the draft budget until the start of the debate in parliament. Today we have 31 points of the agenda, from budget rebalances for 2017 to 2018 budgets, following laws, but unfortunately laws that have nothing to do with the budget, such as the Law on the financial support of families with children, the employment of foreigners, courts, several international agreements or granting consent to the functioning of REM in 2018. So I ask you to put on a statement a proposal to, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, duplicate the time that MPs will have to speak of this law and thus try, in a small, small act, to preserve the dignity of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26824	Now, colleague Djurisic, since you know it's December 6, 2017, I hope you know what you did yesterday. Or should I remind you? You've been looking for something here in the Rules of Procedure, some right to do it. You were yesterday at 17 or 19.05, I can't exactly read, suggested that on the basis of Article 97 of Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, doubles the time for discussion. Is that right, fellow Gjurish? Is it or isn't it? You can't suggest twice. It's a classic abuse of Rules of Procedure, and now I'm going to tell you why. Because your proposal is being decided by the People without a search. You've been talking for two minutes, misusing the Rules of Procedure's violation institute. I don't mind. But if you want to insist on small things, then you stick to them. Here, I won't take your time, I know those two minutes mean a lot to you, so there's no need to take them away, and your proposal will be made by the National Assembly when the time comes. In accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session and all members of the government. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on draft agenda acts, at points 1 to 31, and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. National MPs Jovan Jovanovic, president of the Parliament Group of Independent MPs, Bosko Obradovic, president of the Dveri Group and Marko Djurisic, president of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, suggested that the search time be doubled for parliamentary groups, i.e. extend. I am asking the Members of Parliament to come forward on this proposal. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, for—24, against—no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. In accordance with Article 157(2), Article 170(1) and Article 1(1) shall apply. 192 and 195. I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly with a common principle and uniform review on: Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Budgetary of the Republic of Serbia for 2017; Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Decision amending the Financial Plan of the Fund for Social Insurance of Military Insurance for 2017; Proposal for a Decision on the Amendments to the National Employment Fund for 2017; Proposal for a Decision on the Provisions of the Act on the Law on the Laws of the Act on the Amendments of the Act of the Act of the Act on the Amendments and Supplements of the Financial Fund for the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund for the 2017; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Budget of the Act; Proposal for the Laws on the Laws of the Act on the Laws of the Act and the Act on the Laws of the Act for the 2018; Proposal for a Decision on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Amendments of the Law on the Laws of the Law on the Laws of the Laws and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws of the Laws and of the Laws of the Europeans of the European to the European Parliaments, the European to the European Parliaments, the European Parliaments, and the European Parliaments, and the European Parliament to the Council on the European Parliaments, on the European Parliaments, the European Parliaments, Law on enforcement and security; Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media for 2017. Does anyone want a word from the Proposer's representative? The word has Minister Dusan Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26825	Thank you very much. I'd like to take a brief look at all the points of the agenda, of course, by respecting your time and respecting that you've already spent all day discussing the agenda. Let me just a few notes on the first four points of the agenda that are in fact related to the implementation of the 2017 budget and the proposal to distribute parts of the results achieved. As you know from our regular statements and from the media, we have achieved better results in the past 11 months this year than those expected, better results than those planned. At the end of November of the month, a surplus of 76.3 billion dinars was recorded on the republican budget, and we estimate, since we are constantly talking about the general government's budget, that the general government's budget is in surplus of about 90 billion. This number is better for about 126 billion than planned. So it was planned on the basis of a very conservative plan that we have agreed with the International Monetary Fund and received full support for it. It was planned to be a 50 billion deficit at the end of 11 months. So we're a total of 126.8 billion ahead of schedule, which is more than a billion euros. This result was the most contributed by better revenue collection, although we did not increase, with minimal exceptions. We didn't raise tax rates at all. A better collection of revenue is 78.2 billion, and public and lower implementation of all categories of public expenditure has helped with around 48.7 billion. Tax revenues have transferred the plan to 60 billion. The rest were non-tax revenues. In lower expenditures, I just want to highlight a few elements, transfers, which is actually the efficiency of all other forms, so transfers are mostly for the pension fund and for the Social Insurance Fund, were lower by 16.9 billion. Capital expenditures are paid less by 13.8 billion. The payment of interest is 9.1 billion and it's a pure savings for the country. So, because of the better results in the previous years, we paid $9.1 billion less interest in the current period of this year and debt payments by 6.1 billion. This is another result, remember our 2014 and 2015 measures, when we banned the provision of liquidity guarantees, i.e. a guarantee for loans that had a real chance to turn into bad loans and that the state had to intervene or pay the principal or pay the interest and pay the principal. Based on these results, a positive result has been achieved. We have, therefore, about 90 billion at the state level and about 76 billion at the level of the republican budget, and we thought it wise to use that surplus to pay some reasonable expenditure, including taking some debts, which will happen at the end of this year, including the allocation of some bonuses for those categories of employees who deserve it by their work. Everyone has a limited salary increase, as you know, and limited employment since 2013. Therefore, we propose and propose to the Assembly to adopt the minimum amendments to the 2017 Budget Law in order to allow these bonuses to be paid. In the proposal, i.e. in the adopted budget law for 2017 in part three executions, we wrote that there will be no bonus unless otherwise determined. We now address you with a request to allow the distribution of bonuses in those areas where there is a legitimate need to reward those who have worked in the most difficult conditions, who have put their time and their energy on average to achieve the goals in their sectors. Therefore, this member of the 1st proposed agenda, the proposal to supplement the law supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017, is a small change that allows this. So we're talking to you, respecting the law we've passed, and we're asking for your consent to pay off your bonuses. In the pension part, it has already been done, as the plan to fund the pension fund also foresees it. This is the point of the four agenda, and what concerns the decision to amend the Social Insurance Fund's financial plan for military insurance, is the point of two agendas. Point three of the agenda, this is an agreement to amend the National Employment Service's financial plan. This is the package of the first four items of the agenda, which translate these results into the minimum changes to the laws and financial plans already passed in order to enable the award of those who have contributed most to stability and who have taken on themselves a great burden to achieve those functions that the state has, both in the domain of security and in the domain of providing services to residents. It's the first block. I'm moving on to the second block now. Short information on the second block of the law. This is the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system. In this law they change, without going into detail, and you've already had a chance to see this, it's going to be the subject of discussion in particular, the most important change is that in the budget for the following year, we suggest the practical precision of those increases that we have provided ourselves with in the previous year. Now allow me a few words to make sense. It is necessary to paint in some way the context in which the budget is going on and is being prepared for the following year and in which this amendment to the Budgetary System Act is proposed in point 5) and in which a new budget for 2018 is proposed in point 6), as well as a whole series of accompanying laws in the next agenda points. Just a second, 'cause there's a lot of paper. I wouldn't want to mess up the order. (Marco Djurisic: It takes two days just to read. If you want a word, ask for a word. (Radoslav Milojic): You should not decide who should ask for a word. Do you think it's correct to talk like this?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26826	Minister, proceed with exposure. There is no reason for a direct dialogue for MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26827	I don't want any confrontation, I'm just asking if that's the way. We can talk to you like that later. (Radoslav Milojic: Well, he can't. You came to us to explain the budget... )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26828	Mr. Minister, continue your exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26829	What have I caused your cultural reaction? (Radoslav Milojic: Commentary on Mr Djurisic. I didn't comment on Mr. Djurisic at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26830	There's no reason for direct communication. Mr. Vujovicu, continue the exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26831	So, as I mentioned, the good results achieved during 2017 created a space to plan even more ambitious targets in the coming year, both on the revenue plan and on the expenditure plan and also on the budget deficits of the republican and general government deficits, as well as on the plan to reduce public debt participation in GDP. According to our latest projections that we worked on this budget, and we only knew them at the end of October and after 7 November we had the basic parameters for budget projections for this year, we came to a projection, consistent with the IMF and other financial organisations, that in the coming year we expect a real growth of 3.5% of GDP and 2.7% of the growth of so on. GDP deflator. We came to that assessment by analyzing the dynamics of growth this year. Growth is planned at 3%. We're projecting that about 2% growth will be achieved. We have devoted a lot of attention to the analysis of the cause of slower growth than the one that was projected, and we have come to a unanimous conclusion that this growth is not caused by elements of recession, not by elements on the side of demand, but by elements on the side of the offer that were distributed between three sectors. One is the agriculture sector, which was affected by incredibly sharp droughts. The second is the energy sector that was affected by poor weather conditions during the winter period. The third dynamic is the realization of projects in the domain of construction. These three elements have a cyclical character and we expect that this cyclic slowdown in 2017 will be largely compensated in the following year, and therefore we expect a 3.5% growth of some projected and increased growth. So, in other words, we've already projected 3.5% and we're staying on that projection, and some are projecting that cyclic elements will lead to growth being above 3.5% in the following year. Based on this kind of growth and based on a projected deflator which is the equivalent of inflation measured at consumer prices, it has only different weights, we expect that nominal GDP will be 4,755 billion in the coming year and that is the basis for all the projections in this budget, which create a framework for this budget and which create a framework for all the key elements that we have designed in this budget. So, starting from this, on the basis of existing instruments, with minimal changes and even tax cuts, not to change or raise tax rates, we expect budget revenues to be around 1.178 billion and budget expenditures of 1.207 billion, which gives the projected deficit of 28.4 billion at the level of the republican budget, which is 0.6% of the projected GDP. It's a record low number. So we expect it to be 0.6% of GDP. As you know, the Mastricht criterion is 3% of GDP. So we are planning something that is five times less than the criteria for EU countries. We're also planning... I don't know if it bothers you when you talk to someone from all sides of the story? I'll ask for silence in the O.R., please, if you can. Okay, I don't have to, then I'll stop doing the exposure, this isn't... Well, this doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26832	Mr. Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26833	Well, no, but it bothers me. I'm sorry, but I have to say, it bothers me that a bunch of people here are talking about a whole other topic. What did we meet here for? (Zoran Zivkovic: It's not a bunch of people, it's MPs. These are people. The MPs are people, sir. (Marco Djurisic: How can you not chicanate us? You give us a three-day deadline... )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26834	Mr. Minister, please, there's no reason for this. Please, Mr. Minister, continue your exposure. We'll take a five-minute break and then get back to work. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we move on with our work. The word has a minister, Dr Dusan Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26836	Thank you. If I can keep going, I'll say what I planned to say. If you do not want to listen and do not want to provide conditions for us to hear each other before we have the opportunity to express our opinion, our agreement, and our disagreement, say, then we will keep communication in another way, in writing, or in another way. As I said, the results that have been achieved so far, this year, they gave us the basis to plan the best possible deficit we've had in decades. The deficit of only 28.4 billion, including the largest capital budget i.e. The largest budget for investments of 128 billion, the biggest salary increase and pensions we've ever had in one year, and that was sustainable around this kind of budget, that's 35 billion for wages, and that's 25 billion for pensions. It is 60 billion and an increase of up to 128 billion at the level of the republican budget and more than 175 billion at the general state level. This budget therefore contributes to the implementation of the reform programme for the previous three years, which simultaneously achieved results which have turned GDP growth dynamics from 3.7% in the third quarter of 2014, to a stable 2% in this year, after this reduction and to an expected growth of 3.5% and more in the following year. We also provide these investments with what's called a real development budget. It's a budget that has the space to realize everything we've wanted for years to achieve when finance was a restriction, that's what gives us the chance to complete the infrastructure projects that we started, that's what gives us the chance to complete those projects in social infrastructure that are crucial to our quality and education and to raise the level of public services and respect for all the achievements of this country in culture, in art, in sport and in all other activities. Also, this budget continues to take care of citizens, those in need of that care, 87 billion are meant for subsidies. These subsidies also include elements that have the side to supporting the development of capital investments. Much of the subsidies have such a character, and these are among other things direct payments for participation in loans, which are financed by infrastructure projects. These are, among other things, contributions to the payment of subsidies...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26837	Go on, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26838	The subsidies have three basic objectives. One is supporting development, opening new jobs, supporting investment projects. The second is to support those sectors and those parts of the population that require assistance and the third is to achieve those kinds of structural changes, such as in the part of the subsidies on agriculture, where we catch up with Europe,... a subsidy that raises the quality of development in agriculture and which translates us from an old subsidy system to a new subsidy system that provides assistance to those at the beginning or career, or creating a new business entity or facility, or those who want to achieve some things in the longer term, such as innovation, such as raising human capital, such as raising the foundations and quality of our development in the longer term. According to 128 billion investments planned in the budget for next year and 175 billion planned at the general state level, a huge part refers to infrastructure projects that will allow Serbia to complete its network of infrastructure, move towards Serbia's markets, enable people and goods to move, enable that degree of structure and intensity of infrastructure facilities, which will connect us with the world and allow us to develop integration in the region. Most of the investment, 53.8 billion are in jurisdiction, i.e. under the department of construction, traffic, infrastructure, as expected, is 41.9% of investments. In the Ministry of Defence there are 14.7 billion, in the interior ministry six billion, in the ministry of agriculture, forestry and water industry five billion, four billion are defined for the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Mining and Energy is defined 2.6 billion. The finance ministry appears to have a large amount of 17 billion, but the gross amount refers to land expropriation which is an integral part of the planning and construction of these projects in all other sectors. So we have united land expropriation funds so that we can respond effectively and dynamically to all the needs of planning, project implementation. What's very important to me, except for this very developmental orientation that represents with itself and a certain risk, is now a risk of implementation. So, after identifying this amount of funding for investment development projects, now the pressure will be to prepare projects well and implement projects well. Now we no longer have an excuse to say – since we don't have enough resources, we won't have to try. Now, the pressure is that all of our project schemes, all of our institutes that were once competitive at the world level, that later work and better and better quality project preparation be done to catch up with the world in the coming year and over the rest of the years. If you look at Articles 3b and 3a of this budget, you'll see that 627 billion are defined for guarantees and development projects. Of course, most of it won't be signed, and at least it'll be realised next year, but that's our plan for the future. It is our plan to ensure integration within the Balkans region, it is our proposal to ensure integration with Europe, it is our proposal to provide that infrastructure that will enable our producers to go out on all those markets within the shortest possible time limits and offer what Serbia can offer, which is a quality workforce which, hopefully, under the most favourable conditions, will be able to contribute to the development of newly created values both with us and in the world. The most important thing for all of us is that we end a three-year program that is our programme, which supported the IMF with results that are better than expected in each domain. So they're also better at having better results in the external trade and external balance, that we have much better results than expected in the fiscal balance, we have much better results than we could expect in the domain of public debt, or public debt participation in the gross domestic product. We had periods when it wasn't clear, when the shifts and inerts of previous events made the impression that the public debt was increasing. Now it is clear, when the cycle of growth and the dollar declines relative to the euro and the dinar, that when those effects are cleared we have a tendency to reduce public debt. Not only that, but for the first time, we are using the excess fiscal liquidity that has been achieved in this way to pay off the debts that have arrived on a one-time basis. So, without the penalty, we pay off the debts. In November, a $750m debt was paid off for which we will no longer have to finance. As you will see in the draft budget, much of it must be refinanced, as most countries in the world do. Most countries have so-called countries. the financing needs that usually represent a combination of funding for budget deficits, that is the net part, and the refinancing of those commitments that have reached. Our mid-term debt is such that about a quarter of our debt comes to refinance every year, and these are bonds of maturity for two, three, five years. There is also regular financing, i.e. the payment of the principal of those loans we have been taking for years. In this budget, as in all previous budgets, you have very detailed information about what the debt situation is on all credits, it is even a painful level, a painful level of detail that exists, to what we plan to do in the domain of providing state guarantees, to the domain of borrowing state for new loans, to issue new securities of value and all other instruments that are crucial to use those funds for our development. People say in the people: a bad friend is a debt. I say, yes, if the funds are used badly. Countries that are less developed than Europe, such as ourselves, have the aspirations to join this Europe. If we were to go by the principle of minimising risk and not be in debt at all, then we would deprive ourselves of resources and opportunities to catch up with the world, to catch up with Europe. If, on the other hand, we accept this borrowing, as we propose to do, then we are not deprived of these risks. So this borrowing is a dangerous and risky step, such as investing in someone's education is a risky step, such as building a house is a risky step. You must also separate the resources from, often from the mouth, and from what you can spend today for the future. This is the part of the budget relating to the future. This is the part of the budget that parallel to education projects offers us a better future in, not five and ten, but in 30 and 50 years. That's what's important. We end the program here in three years, we finish the program that was supposed to end 10.15 and 20 years ago. Now we are going back to that task and hopefully finally, we will find that degree of political, economic, human consent where it is not something that is a matter of the political choice of an individual or of a party, it is something that is common. Corridors 10 and 11 are not political parties. It's a question of the people. It's a matter of bonding. I'll say more. Not only that, but these corridors will make their full sense when all the crossroads are secured, when everyone can get from their village to Europe, to Belgrade and to the rest of the world as soon as possible. Switzerland is developed among other things because from the smallest village you can get public transport to any point of their territory within a minimum of very low costs compared to their income. That's what we want to offer Serbia with this budget. More importantly, we want to offer it in a sustainable way. There were many countries that did this in a way that was not sustainable. Too much debt that did not result from unfinished projects, too much debt that did not result in the rise of the economic growth base and the maintenance of that growth in the longer term. I think for the first time now we're on the verge of doing it. Another aspect of achieving this, the important aspect of this budget is that this year the budget plans to spend on interest, as a result of the debt from the past, will be 118 billion dinars. Just a year ago, it was 16 billion more. How did we achieve this result? By implementing, among other things, the budget that we adopted last year, which the whole world recognized, to leave the articles of individual and individual opinion. Markets recognized that and our margin on interest rates fell from 550, 560 base points to 130 and less. So now we're not just getting loans from international financial organisations with 1% margin or 0.86% margin, we're getting loans on the financial markets. Serbia can come out today and borrow funds below 2%. First of all, four or five years borrowed 7.5, eight, 10 and 10.5%. Radoslav Milojic throws it away. ) We have data on the public debt management site, where there are data. In this book called Budget 2018 you have detailed projects with concrete interest rates. Please, you'll have a discussion in detail. Name any loan and we'll talk about it. I absolutely like opposing opinions. But, please, we have the right now to say in the beginning so that we can retaliate after that. Let's respect that principle of dialogue. By reducing interest, which others admit to us that we are a less risky country, the more others acknowledge these results, the more we need to take advantage of ourselves now. So now we've dropped interest rates on average, and the interest rate alone has dropped by 16 billion in one year. I expect we can put that down further. In other words, we now in old loans still have those interest rates that were previously agreed. I'm not saying it's someone's fault we paid high interest rates in 2011. That's what the market was like. It gave us those rates. It wasn't someone else's fault. Now we have another favourable circumstance that the market is now giving us this, and now the principle is that we can borrow cheaper, better, better, longer-term funds to finance our development and the future of our children. Not only that, but the private sector also feels better. Our public enterprises and the entire private sector today have by 5.6 or less percentage points, not relatively, which is about their interest rates are down to half. This has come down so much that the former mechanism to help people with subsidized loans has begun to lose its meaning. Remember, the National Credit Insurance Agency was the main place on the market when it offered young people credit through insurance to reduce interest rates of two, three percent. Today, interest rates have fallen so much that there is no longer this margin, and now they have to find other ways to help people who are trying to buy the first apartment, build the first house or provide themselves with some other way to improve their living conditions. That's the result of you changing the parameters so much that some old conventional methods don't make sense anymore. So we have to look at other methods now. Also look at what happens to interest rates, you all know that. Interest rates are dropping. Banks offer cash loans. Cash loans on one side are risky, and on the other hand, one collective view of certainty and the future. If people take cash loans, it's the best way to show that they believe in what we're doing and show that they believe that we're going to have a bigger income in the future. There are millions of people voting, not one individual, not the finance minister, not any MP, not any other minister. It's not what we say in person, it's what the markets give us. I'm saying this is the best way to do it. Finally, another aspect of the budget that I think is very important, it allows us, in the best sense, to move towards the processes of Eurointegration. So we want the projects that we have here to build not only classical infrastructure, roads, railways and so forth, but look at the parts of the projects that you have in this list. These are projects to improve the quality of the environment, these are waste water treatment projects, these are projects to improve heat pipeline or heat-distribution Obrenovac-Belgrade. It should raise the water temperature that enters the heat system in Belgrade, thus reducing the consumption of fossil fuels, thereby reducing the pollution of Belgrade, thus reducing our so-called carbon, that impact on the pollution of the atmosphere, on those substances that spoil our quality of life in the long run. I think it's a good orientation of our projects to include road traffic and rail traffic and projects that are very important from the point of view of the environment. Notice, there are non-sumption projects there, there are waste water treatment projects, there are projects to improve the reconstruction of water supply in a large number of cities in Serbia. So that's the quality of development we had, and now we have even more, 470 million dollars is planned only for these two projects for the city of Belgrade, which is the largest city in Serbia, the largest number of inhabitants has. These are projects we expect, not just development potential, but the quality of growth in the future and a better environment for us and our children. From the point of view of the distribution of investments, I have already said, from the point of view of the distribution of this long-awaited increase in wages and pensions, the Law on the Budgetary System, which means point 5. The budget system law specifies, as we need it under the law, that this pension increase of 25 billion, a 35 billion salary increase, to so-called. allocate gross two amounts to individual sectors and users. It's something that's in this bill. In addition, the bill offers some more key elements on how to improve the quality of our budget process and decision-making. We have here added the formation of several working groups and commissions that should introduce a new accounting continuum plan and its consistent implementation, as well as the establishment of a commission to monitor the so-called "improvement". program budgeting. We've talked about this more than once, and we've made more promises in our debates here, where were the questions of MPs justified, when will this be done? Here, now we're forming a group that should systematically help us move to the next phase of programming. In other words, let's go from phase two to stage three to the stage in which we're going to capture all the effects and predict how to measure these effects. It means that we evaluate and approve the funds according to the expected effects, that we reward the good effects, and that we punish the bad effects properly. I think it's a significant part. These points 7, 8 and 9 are standard laws that monitor budgeting. So we have to reflect the things that change in the budget in practical laws. A few measures I would like to apostrophe are amendments to the Value Added Tax Act, which changes the way this tax is cut and allows equal treatment for everyone, refund taxes where it is allowed and equal treatment for everyone. When obtaining legal persons and income citizens, we want to enable equal treatment and in particular we want to enable the possibility of increasing the censorship effect from 11690 to 15000 in a proper way channelling through the system. After the decision to increase the minimum wages made, it seems to me in September of the month officially, and in effect on January 1st, we wanted to offer a change using a good situation on the side of income, we wanted to offer a change that would offer businesses, entrepreneurs, neutral fiscal effects. In other words, raising his censorship to pay less taxes and thus increasing the minimum wage does not affect these burdens, overall labour burdens. It will hopefully, have positive effects, that people will carry more money in envelopes or get into a bank account, which I'd like to make a case, and it won't have an effect on the increase in gross labour costs. Of the more extensive laws, these remaining ones here, you have a more extensive law on Republic administrative fees. It looks like we're imposing a large number of taxis. It is actually a law that only everything that has been passed over the year translates into one law and publishes in one place at the rate, or amounts that have been updated and brought into line with all basic laws. The proposal to amend the Law on Public Property also has a limited fact and only allows some important projects to be implemented. Concessions and other projects. The value added tax is also very important, equal to the equal treatment of concessionaires. In other words, not to be burdened with taxes on newly created value, i.e. added value, concessionaries only because they belong to one category of owner or other. In particular, I would like to stress the importance of the Law on settlement deadlines in commercial transactions. We've had so-called years. We tried to implement financial discipline, primarily between the public sector and the private sector obligations, and that law limited public enterprises and budgetary organisations to pay their salaries and other benefits before they regulated their obligations to the private sector. So we tied financial discipline to something that mattered to them. The law had its good results, but failed in many things, in particular it failed to regulate the behaviour in which the motivation of certain beneficiaries of the budget was such that they avoided paying for commitments. Let me be clear what that means. That means it could have been manipulated so-called. The invoices, that someone could have paid the invoice when it suits him. He could have arranged to put the invoice in the drawer and when the budget inspection came, that his books or his state of mind in the budget seemed to be very good, and in fact, there are a lot of unpaid invoices. We wanted this, because we saw it in practice, that it gives a lot of bad results, creates hidden deficits and creates financial indiscipline throughout the system, we wanted to introduce one, we can't call it system law, but one systemic approach to solving this problem, that all invoices at the moment of issue are registered in one system, so that the budgetary inspection and everyone else will at the moment when they come either to a company or to some unit of local self-government, or to some public enterprise, know exactly what kind of invoices the company has issued, and which invoices are delivered to it. Even colleagues suggest we maybe see if the amendments can be taken to so-called. a paper part of it, that the invoice must be mailed to someone, to move to a more modern era, that three days after recording the invoice in that united electronic system is considered the day when the invoice is delivered. What does that mean? That means we'll know exactly where we are. This means that we will prevent some kind of monopolyal behavior of large ones, who have the right to pass laws and past some deadlines that are completely unusual in the world, 90 days, 180 days don't pay, to bring it down into legal frameworks and that we can sanction and that we know where we are. This law introduces order in that sphere. I know that those who are comfortable not to pay, use their strength, political, but above all, the economic power not to pay, will be against this, but I appeal to everyone that it's order in this sphere as well as in all the spheres that we do here, for our sake. We're not doing it because of the Fund or the international accounting organisations, or I don't know who, but we're doing it so we know where we are, so we know what's going on and where the funds are, where the debts are. After that, we have two laws that raise our level of responsibility in relation to international standards relating to so-called. preventing money laundering and terrorist financing. One is the law on this, and the other is the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Limitation Act, available to the property in order to prevent terrorism. In other words, we pass one law that is fully in line with the international standards that have been adopted and implemented in all countries that want to do so. It is very important that we pass these laws, so that in every respect of the regulation of our system we are in line with international standards, no one will believe you to implement them. We have a well-placed, after this we will also have full laws that are harmonised, we have a well-set structure of institutions dealing with this, but we would have to do this to the end in order to sort of prevent the facts that are happening under the radar and that violate perception of how well Serbia is financially arranged, transparent and responsible country. I think this is something that will be useful for all of us, and for our descendants, if we say that this year we are innovated by laws that are fully in line with that. You see, from time to time, in the newspapers with us and in the world scandals that arise about secret cash flows, funding, money laundering, terrorist financing, and the rest, I think it would be very important to bring the laws and the implementation of these laws into line with the world. The addition of the law under point 15 speaks of the fact that when some violations are found by this law, then the authorities responsible for this will have the right to mobilize the property involved. In other words, as well as customs normally has the right to stop a car in which drug trafficking, money or something else has been found, so here the authorities responsible will have the right to prevent the availability of assets that are linked or acquired by violating the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism. Point 16, Law on Public Debt Regulation, it is about extending the law that once was to allow equal treatment to all citizens of the former SFRY who were both on the territory of Serbia and on the territory of other republics. You know that there has been a difference in treatment among some former republics and that some citizens in that, I say, have lost their right to claim compensation for their foreign savings. After the court's ruling in Strasbourg, Slovenia and Serbia made a decision, and we have already made those decisions, to ensure equal treatment for all of these. It was practically a crucial verdict of this court, that everyone gets equal treatment. We thus allow all those who can legally establish a way to prove that they have had the foreign savings they have the right to compensation, to apply and to achieve it. This law here, defacto, allows us to apply the instruments of debt with the achievements written in that law to do so. So without those instruments, that law would be an empty letter on paper and we couldn't accomplish it. In this way we have allowed the application, we have provided deadlines for people to apply and their legitimate rights to come true, and this is how we provide instruments for it to be realized. Finally, we have two loan agreements. One loan was made, i.e. on the Council of World Bank Directors long ago, and was seduced in August of this year. It's a law in the field of risk management of natural disasters with the so-called option. delayed payment of funds. What's this about? It's a defacto loan that you take, those funds are available and you're pulling them into a situation, so a favourable funding, now a banchmark again, an interest rate at 0.86% or less premium. You're paying 0.25% just so-called. interest, on the reserved, unused funds and in case, God forbid a natural disaster that requires the declaration of an emergency situation in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, we can, without waiting to reach out to those funds and use them to intervene, to save people's lives, to prevent the spread of the negative consequences of such disasters. It's a new instrument and it's called the DDO -- a deferred radion option that you actually have as if you have insurance, only that the premium here is given at the level of the entire country and we have the right to use it on standard terms. This defacto means that what happened in the floods of 2014 about the compensation of people who lost fruit in the fields, about the direct compensation of people who lost homes, buildings, energy facilities and other things, that you can immediately intervene and return the situation to normal conditions very quickly. That's what many countries have on them when floods occur. Between images of floods on television and intervention, it's a minimal amount of time since they have resources and people and a way to do it very quickly. I think this is a good instrument and that Serbia is one of the first countries in the world, and that is also the World Bank's trust that has been offered to use it, otherwise a subsidized instrument. The World Bank has limited resources that can target this, and they gave us the advantage that we can use. Finally, we have another project that is very important, and this is called – the Programme to improve the efficiency of the infrastructure. Technically, if you read the description here, you won't understand anything. So it's a project that allows retroactive financing of a very large number of capital maintenance and small infrastructure projects. How did that happen? For years, we had relatively small projects that, either because we had purposely to cut costs or speed up the realization, we didn't plan certain parts of the projects. Let's just say, we didn't plan some complex traffic, we didn't plan intersections, we didn't plan some ipsyon arms, we didn't plan some things that were expensive to us or happen, let's say, like in the situation of some donors that happened in their country to say a situation that nobody expected so they can't finish the project until the end, so they stay parts of times ten, twenty kilometers that are not finished that no one will ever consider as a special project. Especially what is more quality, united, efficient maintenance, capital maintenance and raising the quality of roads. Here we have agreed that in the area of infrastructure and energy efficiency we can use these funds to recover what we have already funded from the budget over the past year. So, we're going to return these de facto funds, so we're going to be able to recycle those funds next year, and all the other projects, which are being done strictly according to the standards of maintenance in Serbia's corridors and Serbian roads, railways and elsewhere, are funding. I think this is a very good instrument, because under the highest quality conditions, it offers us something that usually people have to finance. I use the term “people, ” don’t take that as bad for me. Therefore, they can only finance from their current incomes, i.e. current costs. Here we are offered quality capital funding for 20 years, to finance something that is otherwise, I think, the next weakest point, which is the quality of maintaining our roads, railways and everything else. It's something where we'll have a chance to recycle and use this for years. That 100 million is time-dependent. You'll see the terms, the terms of the loan are written there in the bill of ratification. The bottom line is that we have to ratify and secure this before the end of the year, so that we can refuse the first cycle. So, the deadlines are short and it's very important that we put this out on time. Nothing will happen if we don't do that, we'll have to submit again a list of projects that will be refinanced candidates, but it would be good to do so from the first move this year, when we already have a list of projects arranged in 2017. That's what I wanted to say for starters. Thank you very much. We will have the opportunity to discuss both in general discussion and in detail all the details.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26839	Thank you, Minister. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has been given by the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26840	You violated Article 103 because you did not allow to speak according to the Rules of Procedure after the incident made by Minister Vujovic in the hall. Of course, that was when the second colleague, who also violated the Rules of Procedure, chaired. You must once teach ministers that they must behave in accordance with this Rules of Procedure and you must take care of Article 116. The fact that the minister has weak nerves, so he can't listen to the MPs, that's really his problem. And he was very boring to us, so we listened to him. He didn't say anything that could explain what was on the agenda. He didn't even mention why we haven't had a final account in years. So, Minister Vujovic is not the first time he's made an incident. He was leaving his session at the time because he could not accept that he, sir, could only talk about the amendment for two minutes as well as the MPs. Therefore, one who is unable to behave in this room in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and who does not have the concentration to speak should not come. Minister Vujovic didn't have to come to us. The fact that you jumped to stop him from leaving the session, I don't know why. Here, there are ministers who were probably, I suppose, ready, each of them to talk about these proposals, which you've come up with any draft laws. Each of them has at least one law in its own field, and even if not, I guess at least every minister is able to speak about the budget. It has never occurred to us that the other ministers respond to the fact that the MPs speak a little bit, they will, etc. It is completely, Minister Vujovic, a normal state in the National Assembly. If you can't handle it, tomorrow, instead of here, go to the university reading room, there's your silence and talk to yourself about these suggestions you suggested here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-06-0.u26841	A colleague of Radeta, perhaps my colleague who led before me was supposed to apply the provision of Article 109, which says that the reminder is given to the MP, indent 4, if he interrupts the speaker in the presentation or throws away, or interferes with the speaker, or otherwise endangers freedom of speech. Because each of us fellow MPs here is expecting him to be debated by fellow MPs, if they won't listen to him, at least to respect him in the sense of allowing him to express his views. The same is the right of any minister, including a colleague, Vujovic. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about it? The Faith of Radeta: Of course. ) The National Assembly will be made known in the day to vote on it. Do any of the other authorised representatives of the motionors or other authorised representatives want a word? (No) If no one wants to, we'd be done with today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. [[The session was suspended at 19.00 hours.]]
