ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16857	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 107 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 94 MPs are present in the hall. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16858	Thank you. Dear President, I would like to ask the Ministry of Transport and "The Ways of Serbia", and it is about the reconstruction of the road leading from Svrlig to the Old Mountain. By the way, it's a state-owned path and it's very important for southeast Serbia, because we all know that the airport in Nis "Constantine the Great" is very frequent, a large number of passengers come to Nis from all over the world, so a large number of these passengers want to go and rest on the Old Mountain, which is very beautiful. Normally, I invite all my colleagues and people to come and see the beauty of the old mountain. But before they do, they have to go through Srlig, and in order to get to the Old Mountain through Srlig, we need to finish this time. In the course of last year, we spoke several times about where we agreed and the Ministry of Transport and Minister Zorana said that this trip would be done this year. I ask if the road has been put into the Road maintenance Programme via "The Way of Serbia", or will it be done through another programme? The bottom line is that the construction of this part of the road is very important because, apart from tourism, it will have the opportunity to develop agriculture and all that is important for that part of our Serbia, that is, for southeastern Serbia. Otherwise, I would ask the same question to the competent ministry, which is the same road as the local character, but it is the only alternative to the master road from Nis towards eastern Serbia, according to Književec, towards Zajecar, which is part of the road leading across the village of Grbaca, four kilometers long. I ask if this part of the road will be completed during this year, because we have also been given by the Ministry of Transport and "The Way of Serbia" that will be completed? That part of the road is important precisely because it's the only alternative in case there's a traffic jam in the area of the master's path that goes through the Vrljig. It's very important that it ends because the high intensity of traffic is in the area of the magistrate's path, and a large number of people work there. When there's a jam, it's big and long car columns. That's why I ask again if it'll be over? I expect by agreement last year that it will be completed, and this part of the road to the Old Mountain and part of the road across the village of Grbaca, which is an alternative to the magistrate's road if there is any congestion. Once again, I would ask the Ministry of Agriculture, i.e. the Institute of Breeding – will my initiative be accepted that municipalities that are undeveloped in Southeastern Serbia are also able to use the funds for the insulated throats when RB numbers are obtained in the same way as they do in Vojvodina? That is why, if we want to develop livestock, give the same opportunity and thus our agricultural producers from southeastern Serbia can use funds, turn funds, increase the number of cattle' throats, and thus provide themselves with the existence, development and prosperity of both households and municipalities themselves, as well as the very southeast of Serbia. Otherwise, I can remind myself that within the part-round of the work of the Institute of Breeding, it does not accept that when a household, or throat, receives a RB number, which is the starting number, that man, that man, that household, does not have the right to receive funds from the Ministry of Agriculture worth 7,000 dinars for sheep or goats, or 25,000 dinars for large throats of cattle. In this way, if we could even it out for undeveloped areas, for mountainous and mountainous areas, for southeastern Serbia, it's a way to accelerate livestock farming, to develop livestock farming, and in such a way as to allow people who want to deal with livestock, and I remind you that our municipalities in southeastern Serbia are very old, the municipalities are devastated, mountainous and mountainous areas, in this way we will have the opportunity, I'm sure we will give greater prosperity and development of these municipalities through livestock farming, because we all know that without the development of livestock farming there is no development of agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16860	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16861	I have two questions, actually three, with it being repeated first, and it was meant for the Emergency Sector at the MUP. My question was anti-urban security, and I was expecting an answer, he didn't make it, maybe he got stuck somewhere in this bureaucratic forest. So we all know what kind of monster Serbia is every year, and these are also exposed by the city. Obviously, the anti-grader protection system doesn't work well. In that sense, I have asked a very clear and concrete question, and it is no military secret, and I expect an answer so much before. What's with the system? Why didn't he come into effect? Is it planned to enter into force the integrated anti-building protection system and as far away as that direction is concerned? Why isn't it moving faster? My second question or first question today concerns yesterday's statement by Romanian Prime Minister, the Romanian prime minister who said Serbia has also given up on the Belgrade-Bukurest highway project. That's what the Romanian prime minister said. I'd like to hear it, so, as far as the Department of Traffic is concerned, I expect an answer from the minister of traffic to say if it's true and I expect more detailed information on the subject. It is absolutely terrible, not only because of the importance of co-operation with Romania, which is one of the few neighbours with which we have no or at least no major problems, but I am also talking about the citizens of Banat, South Banat, and, otherwise, a very important project, a very important direction, and the Romanian prime minister, perhaps he is doing it out of his own interests, may be some of their internal reasons, but still, if the Romanian prime minister publicly said, I expect that our government, preferably the prime minister, publicly and answers – does Serbia have any interest in this corridor, where it is stuck? In particular, this is a little scary given the fact that Serbia is very intense, at least according to public statements, building one other allegedly strategic direction of Nis-Pristina, therefore, something detected in the work of the public as the highway of the great Albania. Not denying the importance of any road route, I am not sure that the road to Pristina and Drac is more important than the road to Bucharest, or Romania. Not to talk about these threats by Hashim Thaci and other Albanian representatives from Kosovo, perhaps the future prime minister, that around Kosovo will expand to Nis, and we are about to help, we are meeting to advocate the highway project. I am interested in what kind of expertise, what project, other than the promise and the desire to tap into Angela Merkel or someone else in Brussels who insisted on this road route, who assessed that the road route towards Pristina and Drac is of strategic importance and of more strategic importance than the direction towards Timisvar, or Bucharest. My last question, therefore, is today's third question, concerns just yesterday's statement by a Serbian MP in the Kosovo assembly, Aleksandr Jablanovic. Mr. Jablanovic said that my third question was addressed to the Office for Kosovo and Metohija and to the address of the Prime Minister, so I expect the President of the Government and the Office for Kosovo and Metohija to answer this question – is it true his claim, I would like to deny it, that according to the Office's speech, in particular Mark Djuric, so the head of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, the representatives of the Serbian list gave the quorum for the election of Hashim Thaci as president of Kosovo? So, is it true, I repeat once again, that representatives of the Serbian list gave the quorum and contributed in this way to the election of Hashim Thaci as president of Kosovo? There may have been some important state reasons for that. If they are, why hide them? Why not boast, if it is in Serbia's interest, that Hashim Thaci is elected? If they're not, if that's slander, I expect Mr. Djuric, first of all, because he's been called directly, but also by the Prime Minister to defamation this disgusting defamation. So, it is one thing to fight in the media and tabloids and TVs against the great Albania, and the other to support and vote for the election of Hashim Thaci, and also now says Mr. Jablanovic -- on the current list, means today, yesterday, the submission list, the Serbian vote list for Pristina, or Kosovo, also includes three MPs who voted for the election of Hashim Thaci. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16863	Thank you. The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16864	Good afternoon, Madam President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. A question for the Prime Minister, but also for the ruling coalition, or all the ministers representing it in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Yesterday, Alexander Vukic gave a lecture at the Faculty of Security. During that lecture, he said something he could not, at least as far as our party is concerned, remain without a political reaction. Namely, the current Prime Minister and elected president of the Republic told the students of the Faculty of Security that Serbia would have far fewer problems than it currently has if it changed its attitude towards NATO, but that something like that at the moment he does not want to do because 75% of the population in Serbia does not have a positive view of the military alliance. I would agree with these percentages, and at all with that statement, that I cannot accept what comes out of it as a conclusion, and that is actually an argument for this poor relationship between our country and our own future and our own interests, and I would like to talk seriously about it. In 2007, this parliament adopted a declaration of military neutrality in an unserious way. Unserious not because most voted as she voted and declared that military neutrality, but because no debate was held here in the Assembly, and even more so because it was not discussed in society. Today, Alexander Vukic also told the great truth when he spoke about the fact that he would have much less problems in developing the country and stabilising opportunities in society and when he talked about the resistance to the idea. But imagine if, at all times, the parliament or the government in Serbia were to take care exclusively of the social reaction. I'm sure there was a much higher percentage of those who were against wage cuts and pensions, let's say, when that decision was made, that it was a much higher percentage of those who opposed the amendments to the Labour Law. Not to go back to our political past now, mostly all the big moves that dramatically changed relationships in society were followed by resistance because society didn't understand what it was really about. I remember the 2001 Privatisation Act. I don't think it's been better than the 1997 Privatisation Act, that, as a rule, when it comes to privatization of public systems, there's a lot of resistance from unions and employees, and a year, two or three after that when there's no money left for further technological development, for competition, we start to regret what we've missed in the past. Not to go back to national issues, to what marked the beginning of the '90s. And today we discuss whether someone has offered us entry into the European Economic Community for a peaceful solution to the Yugoslav crisis. Not to go back to Z-4, not to mention here, Ahtisaari's plan, while we're fighting for its parts and its application in what we accepted in Brussels for six years after we rejected Ahtisaari's plan here. So, we need to talk about NATO seriously. I am interested in when the Prime Minister, the elected president, will put this topic before us here in parliament, so that we can as responsible people talk about what has not been discussed in the Assembly so far. What is the perspective of a society so deeply isolated and hermetized as ours at this point? All our neighbors have either entered NATO or are trying to do so. Let's not get too far into an analysis of the crisis in Macedonia and what we tried to do there, but Montenegro's entry, the formation of a new ruling coalition in Macedonia and a stronger NATO presence in the region. What is ahead of us, it is a solution to the crisis in Bosnia and Herzegovina, cannot be neglected, first of all, given the fact that two of the three nations that are the foundations of this country want to join NATO, that is where I think of the Bosniaks and Croats, and the fact that it was once wanted by Serbs, even if those represented by Dodik, in the meantime changed his opinion. So, Vucic's stance that the country would have much less problems if it were to define co-operation with NATO and NATO commits any authority, including its own, to open a serious debate here in parliament, so that we can assume responsibility for implementing that policy that may not be seen today in society, but will certainly open a different and more high-quality perspective and provide the future for even our children, which will be different from what we all have survived together. Imagine what the relationship between Greece and Turkey would be like if both were not in NATO. We live in a place where every generation is a war generation. And my and a generation of my parents, their parents, only our children born after 2000 are fortunate enough to describe themselves as a generation that isn't war. We must ensure such a future. NATO membership is the most common guarantee in this turbulent time, for which we can define ourselves. That's what we need to discuss seriously, with all the problems that follow. I don't know about any country in the region that has entered NATO without serious internal misunderstandings. I don't know about any of them who came in by voting in a referendum on it. But let's say that at least they will open dialogue in society and that we will allow the country to decide seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16865	I'm sorry. Time. I've been thinking, I'm sorry. Over the subject. The truth is, I was interested in the subject. I'm sorry. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16866	Thank you. Presidents of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, I question the Prime Minister, outgoing Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, what has qualified Bratislava Gasic to become Director of the Security and Information Agency? What exactly was a paraphrased statement – poor Bata Gasic, has been waiting patiently for a year and a half for his appointment? What exactly does patience mean, in this case, a year and a half after all the scandals, when the former defence minister was removed, insulting a journalist in Serbia, having hundreds of affairs? What exactly does it mean to wait patiently for a year and a half? The pensioners also wait patiently for their pensions, patiently waiting for educators on their salaries, patiently waiting for both soldiers and policemen to return their dignity, patiently waiting for farmers on their subsidies, families killed in a helicopter accident waiting for justice, and there is no justice. The helicopter accident investigation has not even begun, the shameful prosecution has taken place in the case, and the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, based on some personal impression of Bratislav Gasic, is apparently putting him at the helm of the Security and Information Agency. In view of what we heard, a lecture at the Faculty of Security, Alexander Vukic, then I am quite certain, if the Prime Minister is aware of how much security system in Serbia is at stake, by putting Bratislava Gasic at the helm of such a sensitive system. A security-intelligence agency, once a state security agency, which was in a bad position because of a few people who led it during the 1990s, because of those who abused their roles and functions within that service, the service came out of a very bad position, but after the reform, after 2000, the Security-Informatic Agency has members who do their job with honor and honesty. The job is very serious, responsible, requires great readiness and expertise, which Bratislav Gasic does not have. I do not know by what law the Serbian Prime Minister, Aleksandar Vukic, puts a party official at the helm of a Security-Informative Agency, if the law itself says that members of a Security-Informative Agency cannot be members of any political party. How can no member be, and the director of the Agency can be? In what is this paranoia and fear of being the head of such an important agency a party listener who was known in the previous government only for very large gaffs and affairs? A tragedy with a military helicopter is one of the biggest shames that occurred during his leadership of the Ministry of Defence, where the system was completely, completely destroyed, where even the planes gave away from the Ministry of Defence to the city of Krusevic, so that Bratislav Gasic would have MiG-29, placed as a model in his town, where conflicts with the Citizens' Protector were abundant. We remember the criminal charges, Major Helena for discrimination, we remember the city's money from the budget of private television Bratislava Gasic, we remember building buildings with rotten iron, we remember the affair about fake investors from Britain, we remember fake diplomas, we remember listening machines and I don't go any further. What makes Bratislava Gasic the head of one, such an important institution that takes care of the security of the state and to what extent the security of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens will be threatened by the appointment of Bratislav Gasic, an unworthy politician in the Republic of Serbia, unworthy of any function in this country, let alone the head of a Security and Information Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16867	Thank you, MP. This was not in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure. The question wasn't in this, but good.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16868	Of course it was.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16869	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16870	Ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, respect for the rules of extreme importance for the functioning of every society, when the rules violate the most important state officials, it is a sign of great concern and a question for all citizens – how are their rights respected if the biggest state officials do not respect the rules? We are asking these questions here and today in accordance with Article 287. The Rules of Procedure, which says that when a Republic official is asked a question, he must answer in writing within 15 days, not verbally to the MP. So far, the DJB parliamentary group has asked 32 times the Prime Minister and the President of the Assembly to whom we have not received a single answer so far. To see citizens ask a question like this orally in the Assembly, professional services type, or write a letter, send to a republican official, to whom the question concerns, in this case, the President of the Assembly or the Prime Minister, and they are obliged to answer within 15 days. That's never happened before. Let me remind you, on 16 November, we asked the President of the Assembly – when the annual work programme of the National Assembly will be adopted, as prescribed by Article 28(1). Rules of Procedure, November 16th. We didn't get an answer. We have sent a question about when the final seating schedule will be brought in the Assembly, where DJB MPs will get their seats in the front row, which they have received from citizens in the elections and are completely ignored. No debate is scheduled here on the opposition's proposal, no survey committee, no committee, no topic can be put on the agenda. Question for the President of the Assembly and Prime Minister – why do they break the rules? Do they understand when the rules are broken, that it is a sign for citizens that everything is allowed and that no one's rights are respected and will not be respected. We also asked the Prime Minister several times yesterday, from October 19th, about this time from LJG to Preljina. Of course, we think it's very important to build roads, but the way it's done, where you take loans from which countries, then their companies are given construction, while our subcontractors get crumbs, one wrong way to build infrastructure. Because when you take credit, you build a road, then it's in your interest to spend most of that credit on domestic companies, because that's what encourages domestic GDP. Well, when it is put on, let's say a contract that 50% of the contracts should be given to domestic firms, then there are ways to reduce that number, and the government and the ministry are doing nothing about it. So on October 19th, we asked whether it was true that the Azerbaijani firm Azvild was engaged in the construction of the road from LJG to Preljina, importing oil from Azerbaijan, without paying customs duties, excise duties and VAT. How much oil are we talking about? Is it true that they sell this oil further to our subcontractors at travel prices and why is that allowed? You'll agree, this isn't normal. In this way, in no country, no one can do business unless it's about corruption. Is it true that the company has leased the "Sovo" separation, that it produces a twisted stone aggregate that also sells to our subcontractors at 35 euros per metre cubic, while the market price is 21 euros per metre cubic? So we've got foreign companies taking out a cock who still get to use our resources, resell them to our subcontractors, and that's how they make money. Since this question is being answered by the Prime Minister, next to him, we are also asking the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance. Yesterday in the debate, I couldn't get an answer from the finance minister to the question – we have activated guarantees from incompetent public enterprises in 2015 of 39 billion and this year some 8.3 billion, and the question is that we get exactly what public enterprises in the state are paying loans in the name of guarantees, which are public enterprises?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16873	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16874	I have a first question for a special prosecutor for organised crime – did the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime ever, as part of the operation "Balkan Warrior" and the process against the Dark Saric clan, carry out informative talks and hear or take some investigative actions against Nenad Kovac called Neša Roming, Sava Terzic, who owns "BUS Plus" and owner, together with Zeljko Mitrovica, the application "Global", which aggressively advertises with them on Pink TV? Have you ever held talks with Ljubis Jovanovic from AIK Bank, Slob Racic from AIK Bank, Dusan Jovanovic from "Pireus Bank", Bojan Kordić from "Comerial Bank", Djordje Stojsic from "Hipo" Bank, Igor Laussom from NLB Bank and Srdjan Petrovic from "Metals Bank" or later "Vojvodine Development Bank"? These are all senior directors and officials of the banks mentioned. Have you ever done any research on these faces? Another question I would like to ask concerns the prosecutor, but also the director of the BIA, whoever is at that point in office when it is answered – will he do anything about the fact that the evidence provided by the security services was obtained with the aim of processing the perpetrators of the crimes finally being used for that purpose, not to stand in some drawers and to serve as mutual blackmail between politicians?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16877	Thank you, MP. The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16878	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am asking the Prime Minister and the newly elected President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic why has no agreement yet been signed and delivered to ratification of the National Assembly with the Government of the Russian Federation on the status of Russian experts at the Niš Emergency Intervention Base, or the Serbian-Russian Emergency Intervention Centre, whose status would be formally the same as the status of members of the NATO Pact stationed in Belgrade? The statement that Serbia's NATO entry would solve all problems means that Serbia's entry into NATO pact would destroy Serbia and Serbia so that it would no longer have any problems, destroy the Serbian people and the Serb people would not have any problems. Joining NATO is impossible without recognising Kosovo's independence. It is impossible without the destruction of Republika Srpska and its drowning in unitary Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is impossible without special status for the Rusk area, or Sandzak. It is impossible without the separation of Vojvodina from Serbia, and I guess in Serbia it is clear to all, and how Serbia can preserve what it has left and possible future and recover what it has temporarily lost is to join an alliance with Russia. Serbia is not enough base in Nis. Serbia needs Russian military bases and a formal alliance with Russia, i.e. the entry into the ODKB, into the Collegiate Security Agreements Committee. Serbia should offer Russia a radar system base and several emergency intervention bases. Russia must be ready to defend Republika Srpska, if necessary, and must defend its interests throughout the Balkans. The Americans dragged reinforcements into their Bondsteel base in Kosovo as soon as the regime in Belgrade verbally sharpened its views on Kosovo and Metohija and the behaviour of the Cypriot separatist authorities in Pristina. We need Russian help, not to defend ourselves against neighborly neighbors, but to defend ourselves against the NATO Pact, from its destruction. In our midst, experts threw NATO's national defence strategy as a major potential opponent, and now our fight against terrorism is a major preoccupation, not NATO that threatens the survival of Serbia. We mustn't look up to our neighbors. The Croats have always been in a camp of defeated forces, both in World War I and in World War II. Bosnian Muslims, Croats were all in Hitler's camp 100%, this is seen in the wake of Hitler's army in Zagreb in 1941. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, there was a somewhat different situation, but most Muslims were for Hitler, but there were also significant numbers against Hitler, who opted for the Chetniks Draža Mihailovic or Tito's Partisans. In Kosovo and Metohija, all Albanians were for Hitler. In World War I, all of them were for Austria and Germany, and before that, they were just the Christmas of the Turkish army, therefore, the irregular troops that served to prepare military acts for the destruction of the civilian population, etc. From their fate we learn something. They're no example of reputation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16879	Time. Thank you, five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16880	I'm the only one taking care of the weather. It'll take Chad a minute longer, the rest of us can. (Kedomir Jovanovic: You will be for NATO.) Yes, do these for NATO have protection here or what flowers bring?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16881	No one resented me for Chad. It's media for you. The word is by MP Radoslav Jovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16882	Dear Presidents, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and above all the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Considering that in the past few days, we have faced a kind of public recognition of William Walker, that he worked in continuity from 1999 until today on a project called the so-called project. "Greater Albania", i.e. at the unification of all Albanians, are there mechanisms and measures at our disposal, and given the frightening consequences of the report that this man sent to international institutions for our country and people, there are mechanisms and measures that our country can launch for his personal responsibility with all this in mind? This man who has gone deep in nine decades instead of seriously facing his own safety and talking to his own security because of the consequences that have been inflicted on us, comes to the celebration of Ramush Haradinj and his movement and says he has not done the job until the end, but that his goal and his project has actually been to create this famous "great Albania". In addition to this requirement, our country must also insist on this kind of responsibility and political and legal going and huge sacrifices. Let's remember that 2,500 thousand people in these areas lost their lives, that 12,500 thousand people left with the consequences of being wounded, let's remember that today hundreds of people are gone, we know nothing about their fate. Here, every day when we enter this building we face photographs of these people outside the home of the National Assembly. What happened to those people? Who traded their hearts, their lungs, their livers? Who did this monster crime? And it all came from William Walker's report. Everyone confessed, including Bill Clinton and Solana and everyone else who at the time justified the aggression on our country, that this particular crime was committed in Račka, a key stone that moves to punish our people and our country. Witnesses, like Dr. Helena Ranta, and our experts who took part in seeing Račka, say there was no talk of any crime against civilians, but that these victims were actually victims of the struggle between terrorists and our country. Unfortunately, the consequences will continue. The economic destruction they have done to us, as well as the poored uranium that has remained behind the "merciful angel" in these areas, will only have consequences in the coming period. That is why neither this institution nor we who sit here nor our government and all other institutions in this country must close their eyes to the fact that one false report of such a man as William Walker has done is a great and terrifying injustice both to this people and to this state. Why can't we just forget this, and why do we have to keep talking about it? So that history may not repeat itself to us, that the same way in this place or in another place would not create a false image of one nation or of another country, and therefore a terrifying force, that is, the law of power, was applied. Inhumans on our warrants must never be removed. They must constantly fear that they will come to justice and will answer for the crimes they have committed. The sacrifices we have suffered in the past century, and we remember how many millions of us have been killed in the name of freedom and in the name of justice, oblige us to ask this question daily and not to close our eyes in front of him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16883	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18 hours. We continue to work on the amendments. This is the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the granting of a guarantee of the Republic of Serbia to the benefit of the German Development Bank KFW, FRANKFURT ON THE MAIN, after the borrowing of the public enterprise “ELECTRAPRIVRED OF SERBIA”, BELGRADE On the 1st amendment in the same text were submitted by Members of the People's Parliaments Vjerica Rade, Marinika Tepic, Zoran Zivković and Vladimir Đurić. Does anyone want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16884	Ladies and gentlemen, we have also submitted amendments to this law yesterday and to this one where we have requested that these proposed members be deleted because we don't think this law should exist at all. This is a harmful law, as much as you tried to cover it up and show it in some other way. These laws, both of them, are borrowing. You say, "It's just a guarantee." It is a formal guarantee, but one law further owes the state 45m euros, another for 15m euros. The fact is, no matter how many ministers try to cover it up, these amounts are paid by interest even if we don't withdraw these amounts of credit, or we don't use it. One more thing's a fact. Minister Vujovic did not want to respond to those remarks because he knows we are right. These amounts are determined and envisaged strictly for both purposes. You've already changed their purpose because you've turned them into securities of value and now, of course, you have a problem explaining to this German Development Bank that your transaction is illegal and that is not in line with what you're offering us. We also insist that you deliver this agreement to us, and one and the other, let's see, yesterday we said it had to be an integral part of the reasoning of the bill, what it is that the National Assembly here is discussing and what it's being voted on. We don't really know what someone's on behalf of, it turns out on behalf of the Assembly, because they signed someone from the government without the consent of the Assembly. The question is, what would happen if the National Assembly didn't vote these proposals? Also, the question we didn't get an answer to is -- who signed these contracts with this German Development Bank, and how did it happen, where did nearly half a billion euros that were spent on mediation go? Who intervened, and where's the money? So there's a lot of questions you haven't given an answer to. The explanation for why you do not accept our amendments is unserious because you have not really responded to what we have written in the amendment, nor to what we have asked you since the principle debate. So, we suggest that you adopt the amendments and return these laws, so make a nice suggestion with that text of the contract to see what you've been up to and what we're supposed to discuss here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16885	Just a minute. Vice President Marinkovic says you spoke yesterday under this amendment. The squirrel Radeta throws it away. Take it easy. It's my fault, so I'm not gonna take this time away from your group. It's my fault. Let's see if Vladimir Djuric spoke yesterday. And you spoke on this amendment yesterday as a proposal. Do you want to waste group time? (Vladimir Djuric: Why don't you give me a chance? Because I made a mistake, I made a mistake. When someone finds a mistake, don't make it again. If he makes mistakes again, the problem is him. They all spoke as promoters. (Vladimir Djuric: It is your fault. () No matter what my mistake is, when you make a mistake, you don't go any further. The word is by MP Marko Atlagic, a time group.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16886	Many respected presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I propose that the amendment be rejected for reasons of retrograde, destructive, anti-safety and unacceptable. Dear President, we listened to criticism yesterday at the expense of this law from those who, twenty or ten years ago, were supposed to make a transition to "Electro-prime Serbia", which they did not. It's not because they didn't know or didn't want to or did the money. It's going to be one, the other and the third. Dear People's MPs, you who criticised this law yesterday, remind you of the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017: "Article 3 provides for the release of guarantees from the German Development Bank from Frankfurt to Main up to 45m euros. The funds are intended for the project "Electroprivrede Serbia" called - Reconstruction of the system for transporting ash and slags", completed a quote. Dear People's MPs, did you read the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which you criticised yesterday, for 2017? Of course you didn't, because if you didn't, you'd see this in that section. This is proof that the government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible because it implements the draft budget plan and, of course, that you of the opposition have an objection to it. If there were a bit of parliamentary morality and responsibility, we wouldn't have any objections. Let me remind you, honourable MPs, that enough energy represents the primary resource of every country, including the Republic of Serbia, because without energy security there is no national security of Serbia. With that in mind, my Serbian countryman, but globally, Nikola Tesla once said, otherwise the creator, as you know, modern energy, quote – development and wealth, I see that some MPs find this ridiculous, one work, the success of one nation, the progress of the entire human race, strictly defined by energy available for use, finished quote. That is why the excellent move of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is creating conditions for using enough energy, and thus strengthens our country's defence capacity. We saw one of the legislators of this law, yesterday he made a remark, a man who had just been prime minister and federal minister, and I think it took so much for him to be correct if he had read the budget of the Republic of Serbia, then he would not have declared what he was here yesterday and criticised the government about this law. No, that's his, he proved himself better in the wind because he invented a vaccine against the bird flu of yogurt and water and vaccinated chickens in the village of Pukovac. Normally the cokes died, and he took the money and accounted for it, but he came back to Chagravac later. But about that one. Dear People's MPs, these here today have been given such untruths at the expense of the opening work of the President of the Republic, the newly elected and Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16887	MP, according to the amendments, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16888	By amendment, but just to quote a sentence, because it's about...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16889	No, we've all heard those sentences, but according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16890	By amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16891	Let's not spread the story, it was my birthday yesterday, so we're going as usual.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16892	Please, it's about the country's security, the energy amendment, and then national security. It was just one member of the parliamentary group who said that we should join NATO. I quote -- Serbia would have fewer problems if it joined NATO, but 75% of the people are against it. That is correct, but he forgot the second part of the sentence that is important -- but if we join NATO, we would have long-term instability in the country, point, Serbia will be militaryly neutral, it will not go into any military alliance. I'm asking the president of this parliamentary group when he quotes, now he's gone, because he knew I'd say this, because he left, even if he was a NATO dustman. I'm really quoting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16893	Ambassador, you're wasting group time on a wide discussion. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16894	Thank you. For the first time in my life, I've reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure in the assembly of this assembly. Article 158(5) - every applicant of the amendment has the right to explain its amendment for up to two minutes. The Honorable Chairman, you made a mistake by repeating the debate on the agenda that was done yesterday, and you gave your colleagues the word that again as an amendment promoter the same explanation, although she did so yesterday. I believe that you should have brought the MPs into an equal position and allowed additional time for the other amendments to be proposed. It's no problem. I explained the amendment yesterday. I have no desire to say again what I said yesterday. I also draw attention to the violation of Rule 106(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The previous speaker really didn't stick to the agenda, he talked here about who he was counting on and stuff like that. It's really already repeated as a completely standard practice that I'm asking you to interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16895	Thank you. Eventually Verity Radetti to take away a minute and 32 seconds. You're right, but not to make a precedent, now what's done is my fault. You can vote on it, it's not a problem. I warned Mark Atlagic that he wasn't in the topic. We'll vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Is that right? Yeah. Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Marinika Tepic, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Djuric. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16896	If the rights and justice and respect of the Constitution these two draft laws would not be on the agenda. Why don't we be on the agenda? Because this first contract was signed on 28 February 2017, and then I guess it enters the procedure, so we pass the guarantee law, and then the authorised representative signs the guarantee act. However, we see from this law that this guarantee is already given. So you're in a hurry. Why did you hurry? Here, because of the checks you rushed. If we look at the state of direct obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the energy sector we have a total, additional funding of the energy efficiency project in Serbia at the World Bank, and then we have within the International Development Association - a project of efficiency in Serbia, and additional funding of the energy efficiency project in the Republic of Serbia, and then we have two Chinese credits for foreign governments, and at the German Development Bank, which is trying to develop Germany on the territory of Serbia, we have seven loans with KfW from the rehabilitation of the local heating system, and beyond. When it comes to indirect obligations of the Republic of Serbia, and this is based on these guarantees, we have almost 16 projects from the emergency reconstruction of the energy sector, and the procurement and installation of electronic smart numbers, and then we have a project for small hydropower plants, then a project for Kolubara, and a project for the reconstruction of the EPS, then a project for the European Investment Bank - a project for the energy system, then a reconstruction of the energy system, and then a project for the upgrade of the "Electro Network", and again, the German Development Bank on the territory of the Republic of Serbia - the rehabilitation of Bajina Basta, and the thermal power plants of lignite, then Zvornik, and the absence of the mining combination "Colubara", it no longer exists, just so that you know, then there are two projects of the energy community for Southeast Europe, so we also have a project with foreign governments where the Poles finance us, and then the state takes over the more directly into the energy sector in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16897	Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16898	Thank you very much. So I'll repeat the same arguments and repeat them all day round each amendment. Why is it pointless for the state of Serbia to take over guarantees for the company that we heard about sometimes funny, but from the Prime Minister's words that it's a pearl of the Serbian economy, that it's a perfect company that practically produces only profit, that it's completely fixed in relation to the 90s or after the 90s, and various other fairy tales that are ugly fairy tales? That's not true. We have a big problem with this company, but if we have a big problem, then let's work on solving these problems, not talking about being perfect, and the state is in debt. In addition to what I said yesterday, to repeat, there must be at least one third of the extra employees, that the salaries are the biggest in our economy, that only a one-month payment fund EPS can finance these liabilities, which is why it takes credit and that the fairy tale is that we have the cheapest electricity in the region and that one kilowatt hour costs six cents. I call on citizens to take their electricity bills now and to calculate the total amount of what it is, to divide it by, say, 7.2, roughly somewhere in the dinars of six cents, to see if the price of one kilowatt is six cents or something much more. So when you have zero consumption, then 800 dinars is your account or 755, let's be exact. It's very interesting that the government is sending you a representative here today and yesterday to sit down and defend itself with silence. I expect the Minister of Energy to be here as a great expert on the area and to talk about this topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16899	Thanks, time. Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16900	Thank you. So today we are discussing an agreement in which the EPS of KfW from Frankfurt takes 45m euros in credit. Article 2 of the Law that we are talking about defines the project for which these funds are taken. This is the modernisation of the “Nikola Tesla A” thermal power plant. We, as representatives of citizens, should decide whether we will provide guarantees, that instead of the EPS, we will repay the loan to the German lender unless the EPS is able to do so. In order to be able to make a decision on this, we need to know how the EPS manages the projects, how it manages the projects for which it borrows funds and how the borrowed money returns. In the principle debate, ministers assured us that EPS was not one of those public enterprises for which the liquidity and incompetence of the repayment of loans made we must activate guarantees that we paid out of the budget of almost 320m euros last year instead of these public enterprises and that the EPS manages its projects well. I will remind citizens that in October 2012, the EPS with the same "KfW" contracted a 65m-euro loan and a ninem-euro grant for a total project of 181.6m euros, whose purpose was to secure a secure continuous delivery of coal. Five years later, we have a decline in electricity production in the first quarter of this year, which was around 14% at the quarter level, with a frantic 22.9% less than the same period of the previous year in March. From imports, as far as the Energy Minister has told us, some 47m euros have been compensated, but certainly the EPS has a huge advantage because if it had produced this electricity that it did not produce, it would have been exported as an surplus and we would have a foreign trade inflow. In addition, we learn from the media that "Colabara" is in serious trouble, that we are late with the fields "Hots", "Big Blacks", fields B,D,E about G, to do non-planish work, and then we have to evacuate and dump in "Hots" and then we have to evacuate the school urgently. All of this in favor of whether we give guarantees to the EPS or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16901	Thank you. Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16902	Thank you. Article 2 defines that the Republic of Serbia becomes guaranteed under this loan law taken under the loan agreement and speaks in several places on the loan agreement, and MPs are unable to see the agreement. What we asked for in the debate in principle from the minister is to deliver the agreement to the MPs. Minister Vujovic said he saw no problem in getting the deal. But to this day, we have not received it, and unfortunately our amendment, which goes later, to make the agreement part of this law, the government has not accepted. We think we'd be irresponsible here if we gave a guarantee and passed this law without being able to see an agreement. The fact that some parts of the agreement are cited in the light of the law may be enough for someone, but I think most of them are not and I don't see any reason why at least until the end of this debate we don't get this agreement, let's see all the details, the details that are listed in the reasoning, as well as those that aren't mentioned in the reasoning. It's obvious from this debate the last two, three days that the situation isn't so great and that EPS management has serious problems. We've heard about how the reorganisation was started, probably after several years of high-paid consultants' stay, we've come to an epochal solution that we have seven in the EPS instead of 600 directors. Now this information obviously should impress all of us and we should say bravo, but the question is – the job of those 600 directors who are doing today, who are these people and whether they have knowledge of the job. Obviously, on the basis of the EPS results in electricity production, which is the primary activity of the EPS, and the EPS, again, said a colleague, in March of the month produced 22.9% less electricity than in March 2016. So it's obvious that the results are catastrophically bad. And if we follow that logic, I think we better get those 600 directors back, if the power production is going to go back to the 2016 level. This debate must be conducted in this context. It must be guided in a context that has not yet been done, and it is related to improving health and environmental conditions in Obrenovac. We have a loan approved by the Japanese Investment Bank back in 2011, signed in 2013, which is supposed to be out of $200 million for the absence of harmful gases coming out of Termo Power Plant A. To this day, the realisation of the job has not started, four years after the contract was signed. What penalty does the Republic of Serbia pay for unrepaired funds and signed? And is that an indicator of concern for the health of the citizens of Obrenovac? What are we doing to meet the conditions of the European Directive on emissions of harmful gases from large boilers? And since we're obviously not going to meet those rules that we've accepted ourselves to meet by the beginning of next year, will we have to shut down three or four blocks at the thermopower plant in the next five years? And what position will we be in for security, economic, each other if these blocks stop working in 2022? These are serious topics, unfortunately, neither has the Minister of Energy here today, and in the last few days we could get no answer to that question. We've heard stories about major reform, reconstruction, transition, but the result of this transition is catastrophic – 14% less in the first quarter, with 22.9% of electricity being produced less than a year ago in March. Mart wasn't the coldest moon. The colder winter was 2011, 2012 than this winter, and there were no such declines in electricity and coal mining. It is obvious that SNS's incompetent personnel are primarily in charge of the EPS system, they may not be called directors today, but they have some other modern name, but apparently their work is not capable of working. The consequences of that are catastrophic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16903	The word has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16904	Thank you very much. It could have been based on replication, but it's not necessary. So, I call certainly not to accept it, and I also think once again that this is a good thing, I share it with you. I'm calling for us to think a little bit more. So, all this talk, I'm going to comment, and that really doesn't hold any particular reasons. If we're talking dates, for example. on the government's February-month conclusion, and that should now be the basis for something useful, which is on favourable terms for this country, we realize, I can't say anything other than not understanding. We've already heard that this is what we're talking about in the budget, and the budget wasn't in February of the month. So it's nothing unplanned and it's no surprise. So that's no argument. The second thing, as far as some kind of conflict with the law is concerned, is the entry into force regulated by it coming to the turn when the Assembly declares itself? Yes, it is. Will the congregation plead? It will. Any consequences before that? There isn't. It was a question – why all this, what is all this for? That's what the ladies and gentlemen say. It's a nice writing, and it's perfectly explained. It is very understandable in the opinion that we have received from the Government on the amendments that have been submitted. It says right there, without these guarantees, these conditions weren't so good. These favourable conditions would not be so favourable, the interest of 0.8% a year is due to the fact that there is a state guarantee here. So more than clear. Since there have been some objections to the development of Germany in Serbia through such agreements, here is an open invitation to anyone who really thinks so, let the bright example, let them not, in itself, provide, find a way for such funds under these conditions and let it be he who develops himself or Serbia, does not matter. But if no one can compete with such means under these conditions, maybe it's better to keep inappropriate comments to yourself. So I have to call not to adopt, although I am grateful for the good recapitulation of successful projects that are being implemented in this country, for the good recapitulation of all good and useful, which is what this government does, for example. Although I am grateful for the reminder that through these arrangements we have also had grants. So if someone thinks they don't have it, everyone can consult with their colleagues and share the information they have, they'll probably put together a good enough picture. I don't want to pay any attention to what I consider to be underprivileged remarks. There's been a story here to spread this subject a little bit, so let's talk about what was realized in the meantime, and what wasn't, in the area of protection and health and environment in Obrenovac. If I wanted to do this, I could talk long and wide, because for years I watched it with my own eyes, as the DOS bolument took care of this country, and among other things, the Obrenovac and the power plant that was there, literally black snow could be seen every winter. Then think about how healthy that was, and for the environment and our natural environment, nice, clean and useful. If such things didn't happen, look at the content of the agreement that this is for and once again, remember the terms. You don't have to politicize things here if there's something real about people who are dealing with this debate, it doesn't matter. If we're going to talk about it, we can talk about it, but the citizens see it, and then we don't wonder what they're worth in those elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16905	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16906	Ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, this amendment should not be accepted, because it simply makes absolutely no sense. There is no point in the very text of this hygienic amendment, which reads as "expect" or in the arguments given for the adoption of the amendment. There is no concern that the state of Serbia will pay this loan instead of the EPS for the following reasons. Perhaps you should understand the concern of the previous regime, because by 2012, the state had paid all the EPS loans because the EPS, while those governments were constantly down and this was a classic abuse. Now we have a completely different situation. Instead of their incompetent staff, people who know how to handle, who want to invest themselves and spend on the welfare of this country and EPS and EPS 2016 after a long series of years of positive business for the first time. Soon we will have the official results, but if the company that today has 500m euros in account is allowed to consider an undertaking that is risky to be given a guarantee of such an important project through a loan, it is really completely pointless and then we have a problem with ourselves and our own sense and memory that it ruled in some previous period. Treating such an investment loan as a cost is really possible only from those who do not understand that investment is not a debt, that investment is something that needs to be done new and good, and only those who do not realize that they have actually cost the Republic of Serbia's budget by their pointless decisions, so they have made huge costs for the damage this country pays for illegal arrests in Saberja, judges who have been resolved for no reason, those who have been paid banana shorts instead of paying scholarships for young artists. Not to mention, it could take a long time. I propose that the Parliament, in the day to vote on this amendment, reject the law as proposed and support the EPS in its efforts to continue to upgrade and function even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16907	The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16908	Dear President, Minister, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I certainly feel that the proposed amendment should be rejected, not only for the reasons it contains one word - is deleted. In order for Serbian citizens to understand better, erasing amendments means in fact erasing the bill completely, but this also means erasing the possibility of modernising the EPS, i.e. the TENT. This also means erasing the possibility that Obrenovac and the environment breathe healthy air. This also means erasing the possibility of living something healthier both Obrenovac and Serbia. This means erasing all that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing when it comes to co-operation with the Republic of Germany. No wonder, the promoters or many of them would erase God knows what in Serbia. They would erase the past, if possible, and that part of the past that Serbia is proud of, but also that part of the past that many should be ashamed of. They would have wiped out the affair with the famous vineyard and Krcedin. They'd also erase events at the Regional Sports Secretariat. They would have wiped out everything that was going on in the construction of the House for Children with Disabilities in Vienna. They would erase those affairs that took place in the EPS during the past period, especially in 2012. They would have wiped out, of course, and in 2010, when 30 million were paid for the expropriation in Vreoc, which has never been implemented. Then in the winter of 2010, we imported electricity for 100m euros. I repeat, we're talking 45 million here, and we've imported electricity for 100 million euros. They would have wiped out the part between 2001 and 2004, which we listened to the praises about yesterday. I wasn't politically active at the time, but I remember very well that famous contract that was carried out, which was actually concluded without an import and export tender for excess electricity, so there was one assembly committee on that and how he discussed it. Minister Kori Udovicki then said clearly and loudly that these contracts have caused damage to the state of Serbia. They would also erase the fact that private machines worked in Kolubara between 2004 and 2010. Some 130m euros were paid for the job. They'd have erased the machines if they'd worked 25 hours a day. They'd wipe out if the fuel was poured into the private, and then I paid for it by the EPS. They would erase a lot of things, respected citizens of Serbia, however, MPs in the Assembly will not allow the erasure of this amendment, but we will not allow the removal of this people's collective memory for all that has been done to Serbia and the EPS in the period up to 2012. Thank you, and once again, I would like to invite everyone to dismiss the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16909	The word is Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16910	Thank you. President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I'm advocating Article 106. – The speaker is obliged to speak only of the agenda point. Here we have heard salva insults to the opposition, DS and a lot of nebuloses, so you have been obliged to warn the previous speaker as you remind me and immediately take my word away as soon as I take something off the subject or show some picture of the boasting of SNS, buying various villas while the people are getting harder and harder to live.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16911	There, you've made my argument. So it's equal to everyone. The word has Vladimir Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16912	Thank you. So, I agree that the amendment is not accepted, even though I am his proposer. The point is not to delete this member of the law without having a democratic debate on important issues. So the project is good, it's not controversial. Credit conditions are good. They are not something extra special because this power of the German state and the German state bank particularly loves, but perhaps because Minister Vujovic is a capable financial manager, so he has the ability to negotiate better conditions, and these conditions are, since they are state affairs, otherwise more favourable than commercial conditions in commercial banks. So we are aware that by erasing this law and this member has no credit, because without guarantees, credit will not be granted at all. So it's tearing down the whole deal. That's not even the point. The point is that even if he accepted that the EPS is liquid and would be able to repay this loan, which may be questionable, and perhaps not, we should see it through the EPS balance sheets that are not always so accessible and detailed, it is an EPS project management issue, which is already a matter of management, a question of the quality of staff working in the EPS, which is managed by the EPS. That's why I set it up, and that's why I actually opened the topic of a project that was financed five years ago by a large loan KfW to ensure continuity in coal production, which we don't have five years later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16913	The word is Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16914	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know that we may now be exaggerating and explaining what we heard several times yesterday and today, but one of the amendment's proposings said in his opening statement that there was no intention to explain the amendment, but that he would repeat the arguments he repeated yesterday. It's a story learned by heart that, unfortunately, we're listening to today. But really because of the citizens of Serbia, I think we should stress why we should reject this amendment, and we should not accept an argument that, again, is completely pointless. By erasing this article, and it is fortunate that this bill has only five members, so we have five amendments in the text to delete, if there were more members we would probably have more such amendments, but because of the citizens of Serbia just to repeat a few more times. So it's a loan that takes the EPS to project the modernisation of the TENT A impregnating system. What are the terms of the loan? So 45m euros, payment from 2022 to 2028, 0.8 interest rates on an annual basis. I know we've done it a few times, but it's not from the worse one yet. This is incomparably more favourable than any loan you made during your reign. Not to repeat now who knows what kind of green conditions these were. Don't make up any more and stop repeating the same learned story that this is not good for Serbia. No, this is very good for both the EPS and the stabilisation of the entire electricity sector in Serbia. I ask you once again, for all that we have pointed out, I call upon you to reject all these meaningless amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16915	The word is Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16916	Since we don't have an agreement, then we can't read and be familiar with all the details, but let's look at what's in the government's explanation. If a colleague went to talk about certain conditions, he could at least be consistent and read them all the way. So the interest is 0.8%, but there is a "front end fi", as the minister here said. So, a one-time fee to be paid at the beginning of 0.75%. Well, there's an interest rate of 0.25%, if the funds don't withdraw in time. Since we don't have an agreement, we don't know what time it is, what tranches it is, and since we have an obvious ineffectiveness in the implementation of the project by the EPS leadership, will that interest also be charged. This way, if a citizen went to the bank and gave him such defined terms of credit, he would say, "I'm sorry, I have the law, you're under the law to calculate an effective interest rate." Then the citizen's bank would calculate and this wouldn't be 0.8%, but it would be 1.55%, plus this fine-stricken interest in terms of not withdrawing funds. That's real interest, and that's the real cost. If we had an agreement, we could also see how much will be paid for consulting services. Something the minister also said, but he didn't give us the agreement to see exactly how much he paid for the funds. Then, counting it as an effective interest rate, I believe it would grow over 2%. It's still good, but don't say things halfway around here, but just say it all the way and bring us an agreement so we can see everything so we can support it. The agreement was announced by the minister, he said there was nothing controversial, but he was lost afterwards, and there was no agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16917	The word has Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16918	When we talk about saying things to the end, it is certainly important to note that this agreement is not only good because the Assembly is asked to confirm the state guarantee, but also because the total investment is 55m euros, of which 10m euros is given from the EPS' own funds. So that's one condition why interest is 0.8%. The second condition is that the state is behind it. The third thing, I said yesterday, obviously some of them didn't hear me, so it's important that I say it two and three times more times and because of the citizens of Serbia and the respected MPs, so there's no commission and don't let anyone in that way, really ugly, disabling the citizens. There's no commission for this job, there's 0.75% to organize a job. It is not an intermediary, it is an administrative cost of the processing of credit provided by each commercial credit bank or by the German Development Bank or the EBRD or the International Development Bank, however. Therefore, it is perfectly normal, well known and certainly implies that there is an administrative cost and this cost is taken by the bank, i.e. in this case KfW. There are no other hidden costs, and certainly there's no middleman who takes money from here. And finally, when we talk about the financial situation of the EPS, it's amazing that we're talking here about things that don't have any economic and financial logic. So, you're saying that if there's someone in the account of 100m euros and they need something to finance 50m euros, they need that 50m euros in cash, from their own resources and to finance a project.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16919	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16920	If it was done like that, no one would ever take any credit. So, he had Shell Oil that would never take credit, there wouldn't be banks if everything you do was cash.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16921	Time. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16922	Let me finish. The point is that with 50m euros that you would be participating, you can finance 10 projects, not one, and that's good financial management.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16923	Thank you. The word has Marinika Tepic, as a proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16924	By amendment. I'll be right back with the Minister's explanation. As you interpreted here that someone decides if they have cash and ready money to take credit or not, it's a completely private matter and that's how you look when you make a private, family, partner, whatever other decision you make. When you make that decision on the burden of Serbian citizens, you cannot treat those obligations in such a way. Yesterday I said – giving guarantees for an EPS loan is not for some imaginary or imaginary woman, for example. It's called government or state. So this is a commitment for all citizens of Serbia, and for those who voted for this government and Alexander Vukic and those who did not and those who voted against and who were not in the country, etc. So, you're taking a commitment on behalf of all Serbian citizens for a rather long period, regardless of whether the interest is 0.01%. We can't say it's the best possible thing right now. We still didn't get an answer to the question asked several times yesterday, which is, and this example I don't consider a good, maybe an additional explanation – why does someone who's creditworthy, in this case EPS, have a longer state guarantee to take credit? It's a very simple question. We've been looking back at what state someone left the state and why these loans are now necessary and that we have something against seduction, which is actually the goal of improving environmental protection with this loan. No one's got a problem with the seduction. We are opposed to the way funds are made, i.e. guarantees for that loan taken by the EPS. Far be it for any of us to have anything against the seduction.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16925	Thank you. Time. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16926	I'm sorry you don't have the same archaic, so if the minister spoke for more than two minutes, the previous colleague could have finished the sentence. The minister said there was no commission in this business. Now we can talk about terminology, but here's what it says here. "The fee for organising the job is 0.75% of the amount of the loan and is paid once. “ A commission. Minister, don't laugh. That's what it says here. It's a commission. The non-exploited amount of the loan is 0.25% a year. Thus, interest and commission costs on the unused amount of loans will be paid on a half-yearly basis, June 30th and December 30th. So you used the term "provision" here. I'm saying, so we don't throw dates here, so we're asking to see the deal, see exactly how much what, when, who and what it pays for. Then here when we discuss, what I'm asking the government, I'm a layman, I admit, but I know as a citizen enough that the interest is not only 0.8%, but that there are other costs that citizens, by law, as a citizen when they go to the bank, must be accounted for and shown to him as an effective interest rate, in order for him to know how much they pay more than the money they get in the name of the loan. That's what every citizen who goes to the bank has the right to know. I think we here when we give a guarantee, which is a question of a number of colleagues here -- why does the state of Serbia have to guarantee a company that, you say, has 500 million in its account, which has, I don't know, property worth several billion euros? Why does the state of Serbia have to guarantee this loan, why does only the company not guarantee it? These are questions for this debate and they are all I think in place and deserve an answer before voting on bail.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16927	The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16928	Dear MPs, I wanted to say something about this subject. I listened to the previous MP who said the interest rate was 1.5%. He's picked up grandparents, watch out, you can't add 0.8% and 0.75% of the commission and interest on loan and tell Serbian citizens that interest is 1.55%. I mean, it's a shame and impeccableness maximum. You see, what's our problem? Which is for those of us who are in position all white, and for you who are in opposition all black, and the truth—not everything is white, nor is it all black. Negative isn't black doesn't mean it's white, and negativity isn't white doesn't mean it's black. Maybe it's black and white. It must be said, please, the electricity industry has some problems, that we understand each other, because if production is reduced by 14%, it means that something needs to be done, it's not a good direction. But on the other hand, you can't attack a loan that's unwarranted. All those who can take credit on favourable terms, as the minister says, take credit no matter how much cash they have. Well, it's a modern business. Well, money serves to be used. What's this about? So, please, let's go in the direction of making Serbia better, make the electricity better. Don't attack everyone like we don't have to defend everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16929	The word is Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16930	There's not much time for our parliamentary group. I had to check in for Mrs. Minister's exposure. So, even if it was the cost of the loan, as you said, and it probably is, although we don't have an agreement ahead of us, you agreed to it, whether out of love for Angela Merkel I don't know it, but it's 470,000 euros. Madam Minister, there are other German banks that take zero euros for credit processing costs, as in Serbia every day you all see there are commercials on TV for citizens who want commercial or cash loans that are zero dinars of credit processing. You willingly agreed to this relationship with that bank, therefore, it's the subject of our criticism because it's big money. Why didn't you choose another investment bank that also provides huge funds for these projects and a lot of what your colleague doesn't know, this previous one who spoke in the O.R., more suitable conditions, and where there's no hidden costs. If you, gentlemen of the SNS, are just like that 470,000 euros for 470,000 euros, don't let God help as a girl from Kragujevac the other day, we can have two children who are seriously ill to receive treatment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16931	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16932	I'm gonna use the line right now for everything we've heard before. So like this, it's completely pointless to talk here on the subject of conditions, not to mention some of the banks we'd like to look up to. What kind of interest do they provide services for? What kind of amounts are we talking about? Of course no one here cares. Why isn't he interested? That's more than clear. When it is heard from a certain direction in this room that the commission is half a billion euros, the brother was told to his brother two or three times yesterday. It's clear to me how much it has understanding for matter and for everyone around it, interest in general. As for those who don't understand what the state guarantee means, if there were a little elemental logic, they would say themselves, is something cheaper, because the risk is lower. I guess so. Is the risk less when it's guaranteed by the state? I guess so. Of course, I expect that healthy logic as much as others who have been targeted here for billions, but on the subject of those who mix up persistent commissions and the issue of mediation. The minister said nicely, the middleman is gone, that there is something going on as a commission for any service. I guess that's normal, but it's completely abnormal for someone to worry about it just because they have reflexes. Whoever took care of it earlier, I appreciate it has a reflex. He's used to working exclusively with middlemen. That's how they did it. It's used to being run like a commission. That's how they did it. Since we mentioned black and white, and that black snow, but that some things are seen exclusively in black tones. Maybe black as black was a contract with the Fiat? By taking intensive care of whiteness in everything today, they might bring it here once and show us that contract with the "Fiat" if it's below 70% of the healed surfaces. Here, I'm gonna pull everything I've said so far, and I'm already telling you in advance it won't bring it back. They won't, because then they'd have to explain -- why those percentages are at least 70% and why the percentages and the commissions for intermediation and marifetteluca were in their time, so they were as they were. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16933	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16934	If I may direct the President's replica. I simply cannot understand that my colleague Orlic, yesterday and today, has the need to repeat something as a broken record, because it corresponds to everyone without understanding what MPs with concrete grudges. I think Mrs. Brnabic understood me very well. So there are, that the MPs know, such banks on the world market that don't take a commission and that give, you won't believe, an even more favourable interest. It's a second story, "Electroprivred Serbia" even during these yellow dosmanias, entered the project of the German KfW and that is now total, I think a billion and 100m euros, the total debt for various projects, and it is likely that there will be them next year and all until the Germans succeed in their intention, and thus they wrote their influential paper, a month ago, "Dojce Vel" to get "Electroprivred Serbia". Of course, they won't say it openly, but Mic by mic which, our people would say through the restructuring of this turning public enterprise into a stock company and it's a real issue for you, too, if we've already come to the situation that the electricity industry is now, the stock company, whether these actions will end tomorrow on the stock market or the Serbian government will decide at some point to sell them to a known buyer, and we claim that it is the very state of Germany.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16935	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16936	Thank you. What is the topic here is a bit funny, first of all, is the situation that Minister Brnabic is unable to answer precisely the questions that opposition MPs ask the government of the Republic of Serbia, in terms of credit, or guarantees for a credit for energy efficiency, i.e. to increase energy efficiency. What's very strange is that in front of the government of the Republic of Serbia, it has been given the authority of the minister to talk about this guarantee today, without either the minister reading this law, the bill of law, or a completely different solution has come to us, which has not been given to the minister who has the authority. So, it says -- that a commission to organise a business of 0.75%, that it is over, of course, identically agreed and interest rate. Our question is – who is this commission being paid to? So 0.75% we pay to borrow from? Administrative costs are at the level of agreed interest rates. The second misunderstanding is about consulting contracts. Who pays for consulting services here? So we don't know how much of the total guarantee the works are paid, and how many consulting services. That doesn't say here, because, as our opposition colleagues said, there is no contract that we can look at and on what basis to deny today. So we don't know the total value of the guarantee, how much work is paid, and how much consulting services are paid, and who is paid. Mr. Orlic, I'm sure you have no idea about this, but how you're waiting to respond. It is important that we tell citizens – under what conditions we take credit, to whom we pay consulting services and to whom this high commission to negotiate a job. Here, and Mr. Krasic, who's nosy, agrees. The situation is very dramatic, if you're trying to hide something in this way, and on the other hand it says you're paying someone consulting services and commission, and it doesn't say who. Why didn't we get an agreement with the bill? That's one thing. The second thing, you said to the minister himself, is that the EPS has 500m euros in account, unless I'm wrong. Why is it that if we have 500 million euros in our account, then we're borrowing money? I know you don't understand, neither do the citizens of Serbia. No, because this is how you charge the budget, and then you work on the other side to increase energy efficiency. Why can't an EPS fund out of its resources, it's economically insane, and it's not doubtful that we're borrowing and it's not doubtful that we're paying on this basis, someone's consulting services. That's not crazy. It's insane that based on the funds that exist in the EPS, the EPS can't do it alone. It's crazy, and this isn't crazy. All right, all right. I just find logic a little strange, but the logic of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is very, as I say, more than ridiculous. There's money that's obviously spent on wages and pensions and he's full of the republican budget, and on the other hand, that money you already have, you borrow from the other side so that the energy efficiency is supposed to be greater. That it should be bigger is not disputed, so we say, but the way you borrow this money and who you pay all the commissions and consulting services, and the MPs don't know anything about it, and they don't have paper in their hand, it's a shame, it's a disgrace. I don't know why your advisors, or your government colleagues sent you here with half the information they whisper to you when we ask you a question, so you're telling us who we're paying, who we owe to, to meet, etc. It's very important, 0.75% we pay the commission, which is the same rate as the interest rate, it's a shame, that someone is saying it's economic crazy to ask one such question and I'm also repeating 10% – who is being paid consulting services and to what extent? I'm glad Mr. Antic is here, so here he is, maybe he knows something more about this subject. Minister Vujovic never appears when it comes to such puzzling things, since economic indifference is not unique to him, and then avoids coming to the National Assembly and answering MPs' questions. This matter concerns finance, not energy efficiency, but come on, it doesn't matter now, so the thing is that we have questions that the ministers who are present have no answer, and the government has wisely sent ministers who do not know the answer to these questions, and Minister Vujovic, who would possibly know the answer to these questions, of course, is not in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today. So much money in the account, we borrow so much and still give guarantees to allegedly successful businesses, and on the other hand, Serbia's debt is growing and bigger? We also ask the final question from the beginning, or I repeat how much of the total guarantee is paid for, and how many consulting services and, in relation to this proportion, who is paid for these consulting services? That, Minister Antić, you did not deliver it to the MPs, which is not right and is not in line with the law that MPs control your work, the work of Minister Vujovic, the work of Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. If you think the opposition will just keep quiet about the laws that you serve here to the MPs, your ruling majority, and you're going to present to the citizens that it's good and in their favor, then you're making a terrible mistake that we're really going to stay silent and act crazy like these things don't exist. What's your problem is that often things that you're trying to get under the carpet or table come out somehow because we're reading your suggestions accurately. On two issues, we have been trying to get an answer for two days, and we can't get that answer -- who is being paid consulting services, to what extent, and why is this much commission, which is in height, retail, interest rates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16937	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16938	Believe me, here, I can't believe this. I can't believe we're talking here. You're talking here -- who did the government send from ministers to the government? You're talking about a ticklish proposal? There's nothing here to praise? (Balsa Bozovic: Answer me.) Great. I'll answer you. I don't want to answer, but you can have an eighth grade kid answer as well. Believe me, he can answer you. This is where we talk about the cost of processing credits, which you say are at 0.8% interest? Well, credit processing costs are constant, always in every bank, in every country of the world, "one of" cost. So, one-time credit-processing fee. What do they have to do with 0.8%? What are you saying? 0.8 plus 0.75. So, it's a one-time loan processing cost, as well as any bank. Consultative services, I can fully understand that you think that consulting services - someone is coming today and saying "who gives them"? Well, they will be selected, consulting services in an open, international tender, transparent, who will receive these consulting services. How do you think the government can say today who's going to get consulting services? Because it's gonna be a tender. (Balsa Bozovic: Who pays them? ) They're paid out of loans. (Balsa Bozovic: How much? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16939	Don't yell at the minister. You'll get your word if something's not clear. Let her answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16940	No matter how much. It's a terrible degree of misunderstanding. As much as they are, that total loan is 45 million. So today you're talking about whether you're going to allow a guarantee on that 0.8% interest loan. So that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16941	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16942	Thank you. I'm advertising Article 108, Madam Chairman, and I could be another member, but I'm going to leave a colleague who will also report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Article 108 says that in line at the session of the old National Assembly President, you must finally understand that this is not your SNS, where ministers can yell at their similar party colleagues. We're not going to let us, especially from the DS, get anyone in this rude way, and if I didn't have respect for Mrs. Brnabic, first of all I have both sisters and wife and mother and why she's a lady, I'd say something worse, but I don't want to say it. What does it look like, Madam President of the Assembly, to you, that the minister speaks to the MP, Mr Bozovic? You can share in your Advanced Page the Mayor of Nis notes and yell at him, you can't. Please really bring the debate to the home where we are. It really doesn't make sense that you said that to Mr. Bozovic, who asked what hurt you. Whenever we ask why you owe us 10 billion euros, you take our time. It doesn't make sense, really.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16943	No direct address, as far as I know, according to the Rules of Procedure. Make up your mind, are you talking to me or the Minister? Yes, I understood in part two that you spoke directly to Minister Ani Brnabic. Article 108, yes, thank you for reminding me that I should be in charge of the session. I ask you to respect Anna Brnabic as minister and politician, not as a woman, because what you have stated is more than discrimination, that you only respect her because she is a woman. (Radoslav Milojic): I would react to Burnier if he were a minister. ) Having a mother and a sister or a daughter, I didn’t remember, is your private business. I'd like you to respect the Ministers of the Women's Gender as well as the Ministers of the Male Gender. I'm not even going to comment on the rest of this, who needs to be yelled at by the members of the SNS. I'm not interested in being the chairman of who you're gonna yell at in the DS, if you're yelling. So if you want to vote on article 108, I'd be happy to. (Radoslav Milojic: Yes. ) The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16944	Thank you. I think you've injured Article 107 over the last few minutes. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, i.e. the dignity of the National Assembly and all of us MPs, by not reacting when Minister Ana Brnabić nicely, neatly insulted us here on many occasions. I don't want to talk about mummics and gestures, a reflection of personal identity, but to tell us that we're like in the first grade of elementary school here? So, if she's upset, if she's upset, you can recommend that she go out, take a break, take a walk, have a lemonade and come back and keep the quiet heads discussing with the MPs. And I like that there's something I don't like here, and I think maybe there's a clear debate here sometimes, so I don't act like it, especially not to the ministers, and especially not to Minister Brnabic. My first-row discussion was, I believe, very well-founded, well-founded, without a low blow, and I expect that you, the president of the National Assembly, are also treating us as well, whether a woman or not. And I'm a woman, so I think my colleagues have insulted me countless times through my discussions so far, so I haven't abused my birth or sexual determination to jump or run monologues. Please really introduce objective behavior as a rule, not to be treated by ministers and said that we are like in the first grade of primary school. That's inadmissible. So when it comes to saying it, you come out, walk around and come back.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16945	We will exclude the personal address of Minister Ani Brnabic. She can't go out drinking lemonade when she doesn't like lemonade. Therefore, counseling her to come out or not to come out is not correct. She didn't say and compare you with people from elementary school, kids, but she said "everyone who's finished" so she said "eighth grade elementary" or something. I run the session as I know it, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and in the manner that the MPs allow me. (Zoran Krasic: Super debate. Is the debate great? And I agree with you. I wouldn't change anything either, really, but none of the MPs sees themselves but only the chairman. Please imagine how well it would be if the MPs cooperated with the chairman and what a good session in the eyes of the public would look like, but I certainly accept, we will vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16946	Dear MPs, since I am a high school teacher, I can understand the ignorance of the previous MP. But that doesn't have to be understood by the Minister. This is in the high school textbook. It's a loan bill. All sizes are given and all can be calculated. This discussion of yours, as far as it is, can be found in the textbook, read and calculate, and if not, I can show you after the session, and I can now say the formula by which it is calculated – you calculate the annuity, multiply the number of annuities, subtract from the principal and get the costs. There's a ready formula. If you really don't know it, it's a shame. And if you're acting like one, then it's a shame again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16947	Right to the replica, to mention the name, Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16948	Thank you very much. Direct mention, and I'm taking the opportunity to answer my questions. I'll try not to bother you further, Mr. Chairman. One question was why I sound like a broken record to someone and another why I don't know anything. It may be that this is what can be considered an impact not so close to the environment. Since I'm talking about professional stuff, it would probably be professional – influence from a faraway zone. Good news for those I hope not too much, I'm starting to look like. I haven't crossed a line over which there's no going back. The good news is - I have not yet begun to claim that the commission is half a billion euros for something worth 45 million. So, for now, you know, I'm good. As for the others, why do I not know anything? It is good. I have not yet come to the point that I do not know because it is a bun. You know, with us in the people, when it's explained to someone that he's a complete duduk, it's said he doesn't even know since he's a dick. Now, those who persist here, from session to session, claim that the muffin costs 150 dinars, explain to us what our wise people think when they say: duduk. Where is everything they asked? It's on page 3. And it still takes someone not to be lazy and read it. Again, maybe it's not about laziness, maybe it's about purpose. Some here seem to try hard to self-recommend. Who? That association of young philatelists who seem to have been founded this weekend. I am referring to the association of Dossovic candidate Jankovic, who has his MPs, and it will be said that the president of the Yellow Cartel City Committee has decided to come out and join him, and is now highly recommended. "Note Bene", ladies and gentlemen. Although it may seem interesting, the question of effect, because when you go from an existing form of yellow cartel to a new one, the point is – so what? Once again the wise people say: "Wise from the hollow to the empty." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16949	This is a replica, fellow MPs. Why does that bother you? The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16950	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The previous speaker, no one understood the best in the O.R. What's very symptomatic is that his colleagues from the Serbian Radical Party said they didn't even receive it when it came to membership 20 years ago, but, well, what is it -- there it is. What's important is that Minister Brnabic escaped from this room, obviously nervous... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16951	I'll have to interrupt you, pal, but I'll give you your word back. You used 38 seconds, you've got about two minutes left. Yesterday, the minister announced that he would leave the session at 12.00 hours and would be replaced by Minister Antic. Therefore, do not speak falsely. Don't tell me someone got away. You can say he's gone. Otherwise, you're not so scary that some minister would run away from you. Ask for a word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16952	It was strange to me that someone was afraid, too, which is why I said so. We talked, and in the middle of the debate, the minister decided to leave the session suddenly, so to speak. So she didn't run away, she suddenly left. Okay, she announced in the middle of a discussion that she was going to leave. I don't want to respond to the insults she has put into my account, me and my colleagues, I wouldn't go down to that very level, but it's a noticeable nervousness, because the second day we haven't received an answer to a very simple question that is – how much of the total guarantee, how much work is paid and how much consulting services are paid, and in relation to that proportion, who is paid for consulting services? So, the simple question that we, as MPs, are entitled to. Why do we suspect there's something here that's not in the spirit of good practice? Because the prime minister himself announced that energy efficiency procurement will go according to some faster procedures, if you want, I can also quote it, when it comes to "Colubara" and when it comes to the energy system in Serbia, that we will not respect the tender but that we will have some accelerated procedures, that we will have a shortened procedure, whatever it means, and that we will be able to get some things out of the public eye much faster. So, for that reason, we're worried that maybe you haven't reached out to something similar this time. We have consulting services and we ask – who and how much? It's simple. There is no need to insult the MPs because they ask who and how much you pay for consulting services. Nema, am I right? I did. Thank you. Why is a high commission of 0.75%, which is almost identical to the agreed interest rate, and here we boast that the EPS has 500m euros in account? That's a lot of money. Now we've been trying for two days to just set up a logical question first, why are we in charge if we can do it out of our own resources? It's not the first, not the last time any successful firm, a public, state-owned company, etc., invests from its assets. We had, you were the president of the City Assembly, as I recall, so you remember that good example that we had a situation that, for example, The water pipeline company made "Makish 2" out of its assets without a dinar of credit, loans from the budget, etc. That's what we could have done this time. Okay, Orlic is young, so he doesn't know, but you were there, so you know. I want to tell you that can happen. It's a logic that even you were as socialists and you applied it in Belgrade, so I'm surprised why we're not applying it here right now. That's kind of logical. Here, and Krasic says he is. What's important is that we don't have an emergency, we don't have a shortened, we don't have an easier procedure, we do everything by law, and then in accordance with the law, we can ask one logical question -- who and why are we paying for consulting services, how much does it cost? It's not an attack on you or anyone, but only when you don't answer that question for two days, then we suspect and then it comes to this. Now that Minister Brnabic doesn't know the answer, he's insulting. There's no need for that. Let's talk as people and answer the questions of MPs, because the MPs are here to control the government and not the government to control the MPs and tell them how to behave. I don't think that really makes sense. And you, Mr. Arsic, also do what often the President of the Assembly doesn't do, take care of these things. If Maja Gojkovic does not care about the dignity of this home, you will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16953	We also take the speaker of the congregation and I care for the dignity of the National Assembly and ask the MPs to help us do so. Right on line, Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16954	First of all, I would like to thank my colleague, Brnabic, who changed me to my application at times when I had other ministerial obligations. And it was said yesterday, ten to twelve today. I'm asking for correctness, although I'm not expecting it. I will go over it, I will not comment on this understatement between my colleague Brnabic and me who I have heard from certain MPs. I must say that this question to which an answer is sought, the answer to that question was given several times by my colleague Vujovic. If the MPs were to participate in parliament's work, in a debate that has been going on for the fourth day, they would know for sure. Since I heard what was said, then I suggest a colleague who said that, because he underestimates me and counterpart Brnabic, and does not come to the sessions, has at least so much effort to take a stenographic note from Friday's session and find a colleague of Vujovic, who has made a very precise point, as much as he participates in funding from work to consulting services in a dinar or euro. My colleague Vujovic made it clear, so take a look. As for the 3% commission, since I haven't been in the government for a long time, I've been looking for a loan that was until 2012, and, look, I have to tell you the last one I found was a commission of 1%. So I don't know now how you can say 0.7, 0.8 large, when it was 1% on a $344 million loan a few years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16955	The People's Messenger Mircic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16956	I'm advertising a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. A short time ago, an untruth was made public and how she marked her colleague Orlic as someone less valid or worthy, so the SRS did not accept him in its ranks as counterpart Balsha said. I owe it to make amends to react...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16957	Comrade Mircic, you're already on your way to the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16958	No, it's not a replica. It's just a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16959	I don't mind Mr. Krasic getting a replica after the SRS was mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16960	It's not a replica, it's just advertising the Rules of Procedure. Just be patient. First of all, the truth is, Mr. Orlic was a member of the SRS and a good member of the SRS until he changed the party and we're not ashamed of it. We're not like the DOS, so they're ashamed of each other by snitching with the police and reporting the names of the same parties. He was, while his will was, when he changed his will for the party, he went to another political party. So don't use false information and false information.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16961	Thank you, colleague Mircic. We're going in a row now. counterpart Jerkov, Mr. Balsa Bozovic has spent the time of the parliamentary group. (Alexandra Jerkov: He used the time of authority. I need you to announce what time you're wasting. The system always takes it down like that. You haven't been an MP since yesterday. I'm sorry, colleague Jerkov, but clear this up with your colleague Balsha and charge if necessary. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16962	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let me explain to you why the representative of the former regime's party is so suspicious today. Yeah, now that he's turning his back, he suspects from his own experience. It's his experience in the Maldives, it's the experience of his party president. That's the reason for doubt. Because he explained to me in time that his president "grabs" money since 2013, while you were competing to be the president of the city board, was giving a million euros at the expense of Erste Bank. I've checked the allegations of party representatives of the former regime and they're quite accurate. Yes, he gave me accurate information and therefore had reason to suspect that of the former public affairs, Mr. "grab the money", he allocated a million euros to the account and gave me this information only to win the Belgrade elections for the party's president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16963	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16964	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, the financial structure, when we talk about a credit arrangement for the Modernisation of the Encouragement System Project, otherwise it precisely states that the 45 billion amount of guarantees is defined, and that ten, I apologize, 45m euros are guarantees to KfW Bank and that 10m euros are the obligations of the Republic of Serbia. What's to say, repeat to those who don't understand, in what way does the operation and withdrawal of these loans go in the first place? First of all, you need to compete with certain technical and technological documentation. So, the Republic of Serbia couldn't even enter into the withdrawal of these loans, although the memorandum was signed at the time of those who are now rebelling, but simply when you finish the technical documentation only when you are financially capable, such as "Electropriority of Serbia" is now able, given that in 2012, there were 17.3 billion dinars, you are in a position to be able to realise such projects. Now is the time to implement such projects and then they go under certain conditions. The conditions are that you have five years of opportunity to withdraw certain tranches for certain phases in the realization of such a project. You have one-off fees that you give immediately and you have interest rates that go on an annual basis. What is important to say for those who do not know, what you have had the opportunity to hear from the minister, consultants who will perform consulting services for the realization of such a single credit arrangement will be elected in the tender. It wasn't in time until 2012. So it's a very transparent way. This kind of project will be realised, and this is simply the desire and political support of this Government of Serbia, that all the jobs it does in this way, in cooperation, not only with its partners, when we talk about financial organisations from Germany, from the World Bank, from the IMF, but simply from Russia, China, it works in a completely transparent way. All those insinuations that someone here now wants to hide something doesn't stand, and that shows one level of ignorance. I don't want to get into whether someone is smart enough, malicious enough, but it's obvious that an attempt to place themselves in the public of complete untruth in order in a certain way to show these projects completely as impossible to realize in practice. I think Serbia is no longer in such a position as until 2012. I think those who want to take down projects like this, and the Kobajagi advocate European integration, show that they stayed in that time until 2012. I think that in the coming time we have to go to meet these modern projects, as the EPS will work, especially when it comes to modernising the energy sector's functioning system, especially with the introduction of standards from the environmental protection sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16965	Thank you. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16966	Thank you. Article 107 has been injured, where the speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. However, we had a situation where the ministers gave us a lecture, which is absolutely wrong. Minister Brnabic and Minister Antic count us when we attend the assembly sessions, allowing ourselves not to attend those same sessions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16967	Col. Pavlovic, did you answer after...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16968	I'm the one who picked up the phone after the Rules of Procedure's injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16969	After a direct violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16970	When you gave me your word, I could talk. Mr. Antic spoke a few minutes ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16971	A few minutes ago?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16972	A few minutes ago Mr. Antic spoke, and I signed up and you gave me your word. I checked in right after him. I ask you to take care of the order in the Assembly and ask Mr Antic to bring us this agreement, so that we know whose equipment will be installed for that seduction. If it's German equipment, then we know why there's a commission. Don't fool your MPs with half-information anymore...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16973	This is no longer advertising the Rules of Procedure, articles 107 or 108, to which you have called, and also the violations of the Rules of Procedure were not, but simply your desire to engage in the discussion. Do you want the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly to be declared in the voting day? Yeah. All right. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16974	Thank you. How much time do I have from an authorised representative, I apologize?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16975	Just a minute. Wait for your colleague. You have 15 minutes, my colleague Bozovic. Ask for the word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16976	Thank you. What is very important is to underline the expectations of the Serbian government from the MPs. You expect us, Minister Vujovic, who read this agreement, to find that he is fine, to take your word for it. We don't believe a word you say. Everything you've said in the last five years, it turns out you haven't. Every promise you made wasn't the same. So I don't believe your word, and you didn't give us the agreement to take a look at it. Then how can we not get what the amendment is and what it is? Is it possible for us to ask a logical question – how is it possible that a company that is creditworthy and has 500m euros in the account, how is it that you are now convincing us that it is cheaper to borrow than to invest those assets, invest from our own funds, and then pay interest and give a guarantee for a credit firm? Because you have no intention of returning those loans, that's the point. You want the loans to be paid back by the citizens. With 500 million, you will see if you will fill in the budget, pay and pension, etc., etc., and in an irrational way spend these funds, just because you obviously have no intention of returning those loans for which you are today seeking guarantees from this Parliament. There is never a chance for these 45 million to return, or the intention is not to return that money, but to return the money to Serbian citizens. I'm telling you honestly, one more thing, we already had a situation where we built large systems out of our own resources. Today, as the capital of Serbia, we have the best quality water in Europe, because then Cvijo Babic, you know this very well, Mr. Antić, from his own assets, has spent four years raising funds, investing and making his own resources the most modern water factory in Europe. Now, these are the results, and we're not the only dinar or euro in charge of that thing. It's a big deal for Belgrade. Why can't we do such great things at Serbia's level? You claim you have 500m euros in your account, maybe you don't have 500m euros in your account, maybe it's just fairy tales and stories. Then all right, you say we don't, so we're borrowing. You don't say we have enough, 20 times that, but we're borrowing. So either you don't or you do. If you have to invest from your own resources, if you don't, then you have to tell us why you lied to us that you have and why you don't have it in the end. How can you claim to be a successful company without having a single dollar? It's only important that basic logic, because citizens want to know what your goal is here. Are we in charge of paying someone consulting services, as Minister Brnabic would say to a commission that was agreed in advance by a loan agreement? The one we're borrowing, we're giving him a commission right now. How can I tell you one thing? You can't play with the money of Serbian citizens. We can't treat money irresponsiblely that they don't have, and obviously neither do you. So, let's see what we're in debt for if we have the money, do you intend to pay it back? Why can't we invest from our own resources? Why should we be in debt? Ten billion euros and more, eleven more is Serbia's debt and we don't know how much it is. Every time you come to the congregation with some new law, let's do more, because it's important because of the efficiency of this or that. What did you spend this 10 billion on? What makes Serbia more efficient for the 10 billion? We absolutely don't get that. We want, therefore, a commission and consulting services on the money you borrow on behalf of Serbian citizens, out of their pocket it is funded and paid, they have the right to know who that money goes to for consulting services and who the commission goes to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16977	Right to the replica of Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16978	I'll have to check for this Makish, I trust my colleague Bozovic to say there was no loan dinar, but then it's certainly the only project that was done without credit, considering both schools and kindergartens worked out of credit. It's possible there was no room to take credit for it, so Cvva worked as a good director from his own incomes for years, but I doubt it. It's not good to go back to the time that I was president of the assembly, because, realistically, everything that was done at that time was made out of credit, and we shouldn't take it as an argument right now. I want to say a few things. First, for every loan that's given, there's this loan-processing commission. I told you, the last loan from 2012 in the field of energy was $334 million, a commission of 1%. Unfortunately, these are the rules of the game that must obviously be played. Why are you taking credit? No one is serious about projects, especially from energy efficiency and environmental efficiency, from its current liquidity. Simply, for that there are credit lines, there are favourable loans with low interest rates, and that's what they all do. I think everyone, absolutely, understands why. The Elektroprivreda of Serbia has funds, it has more than 50 billion dinars in its account, I don't know today, it changes every day, but these are assets that are for liquid liquidity, these are assets that are for the current investment cycle and investments that are made in Kolubara.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16979	I thank the ministers. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16980	Thank you. What makes me happy is that there's a positive example that can make one positive practice that those successful companies that tried and wet power to invest, out of their resources, and end up such a big project that we can do it at the Republic level every time there's an opportunity for that to happen. First of all, we are not in debt, secondly it is cheaper, thirdly more efficient and faster, we do not have to talk this way in Parliament, we have even more important topics, but it is very important that we try to change economic logic and that in the period when Serbia is highly in charge, even if we withdraw the loans agreed in China, on the last trip of Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic with his associates. Please ask him not to travel anymore, because whenever he comes back, we won't be able to pay off everything. From year to year 10, 11, 12 billion euros are due to God's own knowledge. So, if we withdraw those three, three and a half billion more, we'll come to 90% of GDP. With 90% of GDP, we're bankrupt, then you'll have nothing to pay out of pensions. So what I'm saying is that it's an economic logic that's wrong. Let's change it together and play it out for me and thank you for this discussion, Minister Antic. What is very important is that you too, in accordance with your programme, and we, in accordance with our beliefs, can offer some alternative and some different concept of development. We don't always have to do every little thing, I agree with you, you're absolutely right, every school, every kindergarten, but that's not profitable, as I would say to you, organisations, they don't have money in their account, but EPS if there is, then maybe he can finance it himself, and that's the difference. There's no cost of investing in education, in schools, in kindergartens, in colleges, in high school. It's not a cost to invest in health care, it comes back to you, it's not a cost to invest in science, but it's a cost to invest in projects for which we have money in our account or for projects for which we don't have money in our account, which are not cost-effective, and such projects, unfortunately, in the last five years, are growing more and more. You started from that channel Morava - the Aegean Sea, etc., so you realized that it was really the same for you too, imagine just how it was for us and for you it was too much. Now, you've figured that out, and then you've modified it a little bit, so now every next project is megolomanic, and now we're going to invest a billion euros in "Belgrade on Water"...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16981	Comrade Balsha, can you explain to me what this has to do with your amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16982	No, I'm just talking about an economic logic consistent with this amendment. So let's see how and how we spend the funds of the citizens of Serbia, because they will eventually pay it all off. There's no people money, you have to understand that. There's no people money for every promise you make every year. (Alexander Martinovic throws.) It costs your staying in power. They cost your functions, Mr. Martinovic. What do you mean? Well, I mean so many salaries, so many executives, so many cars...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16983	Comrade Bozovic, please, without speaking directly to the MPs
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16984	He threw it to me, and for that reason, I bowed down, and I apologized.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16985	Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16986	Thank you, Minister Antic, but there has obviously been a change in logic, especially in those who were once in the SRS, they are now in the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16987	What does that have to do with your amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16988	They're changing economic logic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16989	Does it have to do with economic logic that someone changes the political party?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16990	You see, I tell you, they used to spend on wars, and now they're spending on failed projects. What's wrong, Mr. Arsic? Of course there is. Thank you for this discussion, Minister Antic, and I hope you will adopt some of the proposed solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16991	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16992	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the thief thinks they're all thieves, and that if they were stealing at a time when they ruled this country, everyone next must steal. That's not true. Here, I will now read to you, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the delivery agreement, why they are constantly interested in these consulting services, so they understand best, the agreement on providing consulting services - the development and implementation of the privatisation strategy for the Public Enterprise JAT Airways concluded between the Republic of Serbia - the government and the Rodschild consortium and others in Belgrade on 26 September 2007. That's usually the government where Shule was famous, who used to melt our tanks in the "Smederjevska iron" and sell us boats, so we didn't have when the floods were, was the defence minister, and Bozidar Djelic was the finance minister. Under this contract, the government of the Republic of Serbia paid 38 consultants, otherwise the privatisation of JAT never occurred during their rule, so for consulting services, 38 consultants paid a total of 150,000 euros, and for material costs involving transport, translation, hotel costs, etc. 63,000 euros. And then today Balša Bozovic, who flies in the Maldives, sells apartments in "Belgrade on the Water", so often mentions it, because she advertises it and lives it well, she says – here, those from the SNS want to steal something, she says something, they're usually the expressions they used. Here, look how much money they spent in September 2007 for...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16993	You're bringing the end of your colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16994	... privatization of companies that never happened. That's what DS personnel were doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16995	I thank my colleague Martinovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16996	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is where the famous Cvijo Babic was mentioned as a positive example. Let's see what kind of commissions they were, what they were, etc. to be seen from one data. The praised Cvijo Babic, vice-president of the one here who suspected so much on July 26th 2011 decided on offers for spare parts of "The Waterway of Belgrade". You see how some look good and smarter from behind. He decided on offers, decided between two offers – "Multipartner" and "FireSpre". "Firesprem" offered 2.4 million, and "Multipartner", that must have been Shulet, which took part in those million euros in the Erste Bank account, made an offer of 7.9 million. Now imagine what offer during the famous pair of Cvijo Babic and the authorised representative of the former regime party are accepted. Is this a rewarding question, of 2.4 million or this other of 7.9 given by the Multipartner? Of course he was a "Multipartner". They accepted three times the price, and that's the way they did business. That's why Mr. Martinovic is right when he says the thief always suspects they're other thieves.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16997	Mr. Risticevic, by amendment. Replica, Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16998	Thank you. I will unite the replica and Mr. Martinovic and the previous speaker. To mention in this context both the presidents of DS and DS is very funny, especially when the privatisation of JAT is mentioned. So you gave “JAT. ” They took on the debts and the citizens paid several more times a few hundred million euros so that it could function as you imagined. The director pays several tens of thousands of euros with everything else going on, and we read in public. So you can't talk about "Belgrade on Water" because you should be ashamed to talk about the money you spent on behalf of the citizens to put money in your partner from the UAE. You should be ashamed of that. There's absolutely no development here. You paid one job of 150 000 euros for a worker who receives a salary at that construction site of 20,000 dinars. How is it possible that this is your development project and you are now making apartments that are going to buy so many tycoons around Belgrade, from the UAE... (Alexander Martinovic: I'll buy. So you have money for it. You have five salaries. The situation is that you built a bar there run by the top of the SNS. You'll be building a hotel to run the top of the SNS. You'll build a shopping mall where you'll probably have stores like the top of the SNS and it's like a project to develop Belgrade. In doing so, you passed a law on this "Belgrade on Water" and said that there is not your interest but your public interest, that there is culture, that there is art, etc. It is an art for you to take your money and put it in your pocket, but there is no public interest except that you become richer and richer in such a poor country.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u16999	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17000	Thank you very much. There's something about that recognition we were just listening about. So when those who are used to doing everything on commission, intermediation, and then the corresponding soil, here care about these issues, it's logical, they do it because they're so used to it. They can't function differently. Then they ask themselves, they read the explanation, they ask where your data is, where what they would certainly do, where that part they would certainly take, and when they don't see it, when it's gone, they don't get it, they're nervous, they're scared, they wave here. Maybe not a minister, but I can say that as an MP. In doing so, making mistakes, nervousness leads to a man falling, and then it sounds like he didn't graduate from school. It really sounds like that from time to time, so then even elementary mathematics isn't good, and then stories about how long it was, and how long it was. It's all done on your fingers, and I don't say that by accident, because some people are used to not only counting, but also doing it using their fingers. If we're going to talk about the pub, who made the discussion in the National Assembly, so very often, can remind us of the beer? Let them look at each other a little, not only as they figure out their own answer to that question, but also as they ask themselves what to do next. We know what happened. We see very well and how it is today. And since that's how it is today, that's how it goes in the election, so some censors can't reach the ceiling, but let them ask themselves what to do next. Not only is he gonna see that little bar that looks like a lot of crocodiles drying up more and more and it's gonna disappear completely over time. Anyway, let them look at how far over their shoulder, over there on the other side, and let them see how they can go if they do that bar story and do that estradation. Whether it ends up, about, at the level of invalid ballots or maybe another ten thousand votes below it. So, let these things answer to themselves. As far as we're concerned, we've already seen the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17001	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Two minutes. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MPs Milorad Mircic, Marinika Tepic, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17002	We, Serbian radicals, continue to insist that with great caution, credit arrangements are entered and this amendment follows amendments that say this treaty should be annulled, i.e. not to sign this type of guarantee by the state. Article 3 clearly states that the borrower will settle obligations, repay the loan, but they are state guarantees. We heard here during yesterday's argument that these funds, first of all, are meant to remove the ash that's on the TENT, the ash, which a colleague would say, and then we heard it wasn't because of us, but because of our children. I can understand that someone can use pathetics as a means of consent or gain a majority in this assembly to vote, and so on in this case. But how much do colleagues think when they use such arguments, how much do they think our children are going to pay back these loans? Secondly, with this contract, there should be an agreement. The fact that you gentlemen who are proposing this law, the representatives of the government, convince us that everything is fine, and there is no agreement, that's one thing. The other thing is, you need to clear up once and for all, we, the Serbian radicals, of the Brussels Agreement, don't trust you. You're the signatories of the Brussels Agreement and I haven't trusted you since. As far as the return guarantee is concerned, you know how it is, we had a recent situation that many public enterprises could not service their debts, so the state, as a jury, is a guarantee in the situation that additional obligations must be undertaken and those obligations which cannot be served by public undertakings. We continue to insist that as few states engage in such or similar arrangements.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17003	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17004	We've heard, of course, a lot of things in an attempt to justify this pointless act on which the government, the government, is forcing us to agree with our positive vote and I think it's another affirmation of these draft laws on medical examinations for the MPs, members of the government, president of the state. Because it's completely insane to say that someone has 400 million euros in their account, 50 billion dinars, but that it's necessary to take credit, because it's much better to take a small-interest loan than to finance it from their assets, and since they're in his account, that means there's nothing more important than that loan. So that's not normal. It couldn't have gone to elementary school, let alone the seventh grade that was mentioned earlier. Like, there can't even be a statement from the prime minister in China calling on the Chinese president to come to the opening of the Belgrade railway -- Budapest, which is not even on paper...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17005	Comrade Zivkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17006	... And it has a lot to do with international loans, because they're Chinese loans and they're not making that railroad, they're giving us credit, and we're paying for it. Therefore, to be clear to everyone, it does not exist. If Serbia has no financial problems, as the same prime minister said the other day in Beijing, return pensions, salaries. Let's get the kids treated in a normal way. Let's all get a review of the state's cost, at least you can do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17007	Mr. Zivkovic, I'm asking you about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17008	I'm asking you the same thing not to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17009	I have the right to interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17010	I'm talking about loans, amendments, what the subject is. If the EPS is incompetent with 400 million to repay the loan, then someone fat is lying here, and if someone's lying, it's only then that they need a guarantee from the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17011	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17012	Thank you. So the EPS should take the loan, 45m euros, with information that last year ended with a very good cash flow and had 400,500m in the account. This is what we will believe when we see the final account on the Business Registers Agency website, the 2016 final account, and when that final account passes the revision of an internationally recognised auditory house. Because we had situations, let's say, that state-owned companies booked 500, 600 million dinars of supplies, so when counterpart Sasa Radulovic asked them as economy minister – how real it was, the director then said it was a realistic third. So, accounting is a cut-off reality several times. That director, for that kind of final account he signed responsiblely, he's taking the mayor today. Could the EPS have financed from its own sources? It's not just a question of whether he estimated that he had his own 500 million, if any, needed or not. Of course, it's crazy to take 500 million, shoot at project financing, so when the payday comes, and then you say – there's no cash, give me a fast cash loan to take. I'm trying to make things simple, so it might be easier for the citizens to understand what it's all about. When we talk about funding sources for projects, there is a very large source from which the EPS could finance projects if political will existed. The political will is gone, because it implies the public sector is being settled. That source is called the debt claim. It's also EPS property, it's their money in other public enterprises. So says Zelezara Smederevo, 38m euros, Railways 21m, RTB 67m euros, according to the EPS website, of which only in 2016, 32.4m, that is four billion dinars. So half that debt is from last year.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17013	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17014	It could've been re-replicated again, but it doesn't matter. We'll make sure it's two minutes. So, one more time. Of course, there is no need to accept a suggestion that just because someone here says it doesn't explain why they would delete it, it's not worth the effort at all. As much as it was at the level of the amendment's reasoning, so much will be at the level of counterargumentation. It is useful. And when the Prime Minister, the elected President of the Republic, and relations with the People's Republic of China, is mentioned, there is something else that is useful and I don't expect those who don't understand that life projects for our businesses, for this country and for its citizens are important. Absolutely not, but to hear Serbian citizens say, thanks to these visits and this extraordinary co-operation and this partnership relationship, we also have mechanisms to realise in practice. That railroad we talked about today, that should go to Budapest, will be faster than ever at the time of these political geniuses and experts in general practice from the time of the yellow cartel. Infrastructure projects such as modern traffic to Montenegro should be implemented, which is also useful. The Jelizara we've already done is also not the end of the ballad, but it's also the RTB Bor, which is mentioned today. These are all the good consequences of a serious and responsible relationship with the state. Since there's been some pathetic talk about exposure, I agree, you should refrain from it. As a kind of pathetic person, I appreciate that someone will try to soften me up in the debate by saying that I was a good member. I certainly think I'm still a good member, but please, political parties, never a single-man fan club. That may be the difference you missed to notice. As for the haircut, a very good remark...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17015	By amendment, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17016	Those who are so serious and experienced professionally, that's where I end up, that's my second minute, they've had a complete haircut in the election. The first one will fall and shave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17017	Thank you. The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17018	Thank you. Here I am, as MPs of the ruling majority -- let the citizens of Serbia hear, I support this amendment, and I do not think they have given any elements on which this agreement would be good for the citizens of Serbia. Actually, we don't have a deal. I'm going to introduce a little engineering logic into this interpretation, not just financial. If the agreement contains who is the supplier of the reconstruction plant, as well as the improvement of energy efficiency on remote systems, we might be able to define these elements more clearly as regards the loan and not be so hard on it. However, if Germany is a German producer, which is possible in the agreement to be tied up to be a supplier of equipment, then again, by who knows which road one thing is happening in Serbia. Germany has done a good job, interest rates look low, but for Serbia, it is a devastating job, i.e. Serbian citizens will repay credit, and Germany will return the funds it has given as a loan to Serbia, loans to Serbia, to its driver. So I would ask Mr. Antic to explain this to us a little bit, to give us these elements, is there, in addition to these financial elements, these engineering elements, which directly refer to the reconstruction of the impregnating plant, as well as to the improvement of energy efficiency on remote systems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17019	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17020	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. So we came to the third amendment, which was submitted by fellow opposition MPs and suggest that it be deleted. We support them in this, for the simple reason that we still do not have an agreement, which no one from the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants to deliver an agreement to the MPs to see what it says. Because if we decide something, we have to make decisions based on facts and on what it says in the agreement, not on what someone gave us. Someone gave us a word and told us – believe me, everything's fine here. We don't believe anything you say. What I have asked as a question to Minister Antić is that more and more as the discussion moves away, I doubt that 500m euros in EPS is on the bill. Is 500 million EPS really on the bill? Then why are we in debt if there's 500 million in the account? So maybe we don't have 500 million in our account. Will he bear the responsibility of who said we have 500 million in our account? So if we have the money, it's pointless to vote in debt. If we don't have the money, don't tell the citizens that we have the constant money and that you are imitating and imitating the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia in every statement you make. You hear that he said something in China and then you say it out loud that everyone understands and hears you – well, it's all right, we have money, it's gathered, now we're going to pay back and pensions, etc. So, it's impossible for Serbia to have money, and it's not for subsidies, and you don't have pensions, you don't have to pay, you don't have to pay back the difference you've reduced people. It's impossible, because if you had the money, I guess you'd do it. But you obviously don't have the money as soon as you're in charge, which means the EPS doesn't have the money in his account. So we can't run the state the way you imagine it should be run, that everything that makes some company that's profitable you're actually spending on wages and pensions, on subsidies to failed public enterprises, your directors who have tens of thousands of euros in income, tens of thousands of euros in income... (Alexander Martinovic: Who? Tens of thousands of euros in income! You know who, sir. (Alexander Martinovic: Who? I don't know. ) I want to tell you that these are the things that are spent on the money of citizens who have reportedly saved themselves by cutting pensions. Then you took someone's right to give their grandson some money or your uncle, and on the other hand you give the directors of the company tens of thousands of euros in income.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17021	Comrade Balša Bozovic, tell me at least one, I would like to know his name and name.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17022	I wouldn't interfere with your coalition within the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and if you want to come in and talk to me, call the line, and we'll talk. Let me now talk about Amendment 3 and why I'm about to delete it, to delete this article of the bill. For the simple reason we have 500 million in our account, and you're in charge of 45 million. It's completely irrational, illogical, and it has nothing to do with math. Minister Brnabic, who announced that she would leave this room, left right when I asked her that question. Okay, maybe she was in a hurry somewhere, but either way, you can't get away from it. You can leave, you can't listen to the citizens, you can't talk to the MPs, but you can't hear us who are always talking and we won't let us ask these questions without getting an answer. That's the key questions. What's the point of having money in your account so you don't spend that money on investment, but you're in charge? The company that allegedly has 500 million is not in need of a guarantee, because it is creditworthy. No company today in Serbia has that money in its account. Who's got it? They may have some of your tycoons, but none of the state-owned companies have that money in their account. Then ask for more guarantees. I don't know who you insult here with intelligence, not for sure. That's what you do to citizens who will have to pay that loan tomorrow. The consulting services to be paid by taking this loan... Can you just... ?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17023	I can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17024	So they have the right to interrupt me while I speak? I can't hear myself because they win and insult. You don't mind? All right. So, we heard on several occasions that procurement is done by emergency procedure, that tenders are not conducted, that because of the urgency and efficiency of the energy system, we're going to do some things in short procedures. We don't trust any of the Ministers of the Republic of Serbia with a word. He didn't give us any agreement to read, and that's what we were right to do. Citizens have the right to know that. As long as this House exists, I speak for the citizens, citizens have the right to know what it says in that agreement. Don't expect us to vote for such destructive solutions. It's important to invest in EPS, it's important to invest in efficiency, we're not against it, and we want this system to be more efficient, but to tell us exactly, not to hide...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17025	You've wasted the time of the parliamentary group and the authorized representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17026	Thank you, President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17027	Please, another time. The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17028	The "Electroprivreda of Serbia" and "Electro Network of Serbia" themselves return their loans, so it is today, so it will be tomorrow, there is no need for anyone to question the topic. We said there's about 50 billion EPS in the account. It doesn't have to be impressed by that amount of funds, that's 430, 440m euros, I apologize, 55 billion, here's to today and that's verifiable data. But I repeat, don't be impressed with this data, these are liquid liquidity funds and evidence that "Electropriority of Serbia" is doing well, but these are not the funds used for large investment cycles. There are therefore lines like this KfW credit line which is extremely favourable, for two reasons – because these funds, I say, are defined and projects are defined to what the funds can be used for, that is primarily environmental protection, energy efficiency improvement, and they are additionally favourable because there is a state guarantee and that is one of the conditions. Therefore, such funds as the EPS currently has in its account do not finance such projects, alphabets as are run by the state and run by an electricity company. I have to say at the very end – we have one responsible management of all state finances at the moment, and I ask that we do not bring the issue under observation from some prism of the earlier period. Don't mention consulting services that way. Consultative services, not much of a commission. It's surveillance and these are funds that are very clearly separated.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17029	Time. Thank you. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Marinika Tepic, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Djuric. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17030	So, I would like to conclude with this amendment a thesis that I didn't arrive because the chairman ruled out the time spent and to remind me that the EPS has a very large source of funding called claims. These claims are not charged because they are public sector debtors who do not have a political will to impose order on them, and the citizens are represented differently by the government's successes than they actually are. So, "Zelezara Smederevo" owes EPS 38m euros, Railways 21m, RTB "Bor" the entire 67m and is in the pre-prepared plan of reorganisation, therefore, in the bankruptcy process. Instead of introducing order in these debtors, citizens should, in addition to reduced salaries and pensions, increased taxes and electricity excises, now provide guarantees that if "Electro-priority Serbia" does not repay this loan they will actually repay it, so the money will be reimbursed from the budget. We think it is better to introduce order into public enterprises instead of burdening citizens with additional charges, and this guarantee is potentially another additional imposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17031	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go. You have four minutes and nine seconds from the group.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17032	The amendment to Article 4, as far as we are concerned by the SRS, is the same as the other members. We asked to delete this member. This Article 4 may best confirm everything we have been saying for two days because it clearly states what will happen if the guarantee, which is the state of Serbia, fulfils the obligation instead of the borrower. So you've tried to distract us here from what you don't want to show us ministers, we've been looking for it for a few days, and we're asking you today to show us this agreement to see and understand why this agreement wasn't an integral part of the reasoning of this bill. Because we should know exactly who participated, who signed it and how, who spent 470,000 euros on the name of mediation. Did someone like the lapus say half a billion instead of half a million don't matter much, it's important that we don't have an answer to the question – where did that half a million euros go? If we had all these agreements that you're going to show us like this, it's probably going to exceed that amount of half a billion. So it's inadmissible, it's actually not in accordance with the law or the Constitution, that the government can owe Serbia by signing some agreement and paying the commission, on behalf of the state, it's going to put the National Assembly on the table for consideration and adoption. This simply doesn't comply with the law and you can't act like that, that later on, you're covering yourself with the fictitious decisions of the National Assembly because your MPs have to vote for this, otherwise, what would happen? I guess someone would have to go to jail because he owed the state 45m euros, and he didn't have the right authority to do that. There is a sympathetic debate here between these previous ones who want to make an insight into this agreement, which is what we are looking for, and those who are reminded of the contract that has been concluded on the business of the flag from Kragujevac. Indeed, that black flag contract fully resembles this invisible one. I also remind those who are now in power that they were able to put that black flag contract out of force, that is, to demand the termination of that contract, and not to hide behind what someone did earlier, so now you can't change it. Even so, you Minister Antics don't have that problem, you've been and then and now, so you understand that anyway. Your party, Mr. Antic, I suppose you belong to that party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17033	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17034	This is the moment for me to mark this session. I must read to the MPs and to the general public a member of this law, who, after much work and activity, individual MPs suggest that it be deleted. He says: “If, on the basis of the guaranteed guarantee, the guarantor fulfils the obligation instead of the borrower, the guarantee will have the right to demand the return of the principal, the interest, the fees on undrawn assets, the following borrowing costs and the costs incurred by the borrower due to non-execution, i.e. untimely execution of the obligation, up to the amount of the settled obligation, as well as the right to charge from the borrower the account of the tightened interest. The right to return will be granted by initiating the payment from the borrower's account on the basis of the authorisation granted by the borrower or other security elements." What does this member say? This member says – if the EPS as a borrower does not carry out any of its obligations under this loan, we as a guaranteeing state have the right to charge those funds from the EPS. Those who have been here for days are saying that the problem is that possibly EPS won't return those funds now demand that a member be deleted that guarantees that the EPS will return at the end of the day in each scenario. For me, this marks a debate and a completely unprincipled amendment that either ruins this story so far or shows that you, by some kind of automation on each member, are peeling off. (Zoran Krasic: We're pounding? ) I'm sorry, I didn't mean in this context, colleague Krasic, put on a "wipe" and that it's just one copy paste that's not at all the subject of your analysis. (Zoran Krasic: Replica. ) (Verica Radeta: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17035	Let me see who. The Verica Radeta and Zoran Krasic can't take the line either. Who's replicating? Your group's right, he said you knocked, but just tell me who. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17036	It's not about what Minister Antic said, it's about next. If Elektroprivreda thank God, we learned that it is a public enterprise, yesterday those from the SNS claimed it is not a public enterprise, if it does not settle its obligations on this loan, so calm down the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia will be charged by itself, so EPS has state property, Mr Antic. All EPS assets are state property. Mr. Anticius, how is this state property formed? Here, gentlemen, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, look at your electricity bill, if you have zero electricity consumption in a month, you pay the calculated power, the cost of guaranteed supply, and then you pay the excise, VAT and tax, and that's 755 dinar. Mr. Antiću, how many numbers in Serbia do they have each month that have zero consumption? Of 3,200,000 counts? When you calculate how many numbers there are zero consumption, multiply by 755 dinars, no cost of "Electroprivrede", clean money in your pocket. Those in power have come to a wave of promises to cut the price of electricity and raise the price of electricity. Please calculate, Mr Antic, how many numbers in Serbia do not have monthly consumption, and they have to pay 755 dinars. How can you charge excise on zero consumption? How can you VAT on zero consumption? It means that you plan that whoever registered the passenger vehicle and is standing in his garage must pay excise and VAT on fuel they don't use.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17037	The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Prophet of Rade, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17038	Yes, the minister has just responded to what I said and has been researching how it is possible that we have submitted this amendment to delete Article 4 because, I don't know, what concept in this way we are tearing down, perhaps ministers and government, but our concept is that Minister Antic can't find this law in legal traffic, and we can express it in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, only by proposing to delete each member. Article 4 and that is not so, so concisely written and despite what Mr Krasic said that you predict that you are potentially charging yourself from yourself, but imagine another one, which you would say, banging in a member that you wrote - that the state of Serbia guarantee, that is the state of Serbia, has the right to borrow from the borrower that is the EPS asking for. She has a right, so I guess she has an obligation, if someone is obliged to the state of Serbia, she has an obligation to ask for it, and she has no right. What does that mean? He's right. Something someone has a right to do, he doesn't have to use it, and you offer the MPs to vote for something so general, where you don't actually commit to charge it eventually, even if that bill makes sense, and it doesn't exactly come from the reasoning Mr Krasic just told you, from the explanations we gave in our amendment and in our other amendments. Minister, since you were so disgusted with this amendment, I ask you to tell us in a quiet tone when you will show us this agreement and who took 470 euros? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17039	Thank you. Here you go, Minister. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17040	I absolutely believe that we all understand that the Republic of Serbia, firstly, will return the loan alone, and this Article 4 is additional protection for the Republic of Serbia, if "Electro-priority of Serbia" at any stage makes any mistake. The Republic of Serbia will have no damage. So, either way, EPS will repay that loan. We're playing a little game of words. It says very clearly – the guarantee will have the right, so no – the guarantee has the right, and the borrower has the obligation. So the guarantee has the right to seek vomiting. It's a very clear formulation. Once again, I apologize, although I think you understood that the word that I was about to use was not intended to offend any MP. I repeat, our loan and our law on granting guarantees to the Republic of Serbia, a completely clean thing. I assure you, we're going to do a small analysis that the funds for the commission to process this loan and these loans amount to 0.8% of the effort that the Ministry of Finance has made to reduce these funds. In earlier years, on earlier credit lines, e.g. of China's Exim bank was 1%. That's how much their credit processing service and all the activities they've been going through in the whole process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17041	National MPs – Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic, Zdravko Stankovic, together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new Article 4a be added after Article 4. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by Natasa Jovanovic, Marinika Tepic, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Djuric. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17042	Mr. Minister, you delete yourself and Article 5 means that this law never comes into force. A key question for you. You say I come to the key points of the debate. Why didn’t Elektroprivreda guarantee herself? In fact, you know that by July 1st, a list of complete assets, "Electroprivreda of Serbia", is that right? On the other hand, if it isn't, we'll go back a few years, I won't argue with your efforts since you started as Minister in 2015, but it didn't all start with you, Mr. Antic. As for the use of ash for useful construction purposes, but if in Serbia by the estimates of 270, here I have recorded exactly 270 million tons to dump. Is this information correct? How much could it be used to save on the construction of a highway on other construction works, and I think it's a lot more than 45m euros, which are now the subject of this borrowing? If they had acted domestically, as they are not, and the situation is as good as you are trying to present in "Electroprivred Serbia", we would not have been in a position for the state to enter any arrangement to guarantee for them, but rather from their own resources, first of all, with one first model guaranteeing its property, and the second is that they have correctly exploited all this coming. Yesterday, a colleague was talking - you were protecting the future of children. No, we're not against it, but we're about to get out of something that's negatively useful. That's what smart and responsible people do who don't want to spend 470,000 dinars on commission or whatever you say processing, but that what already exists is used wisely and cashed, materialized, and that we don't come into a situation to improve the technological process taking on these loans that the state will guarantee. We don't even have accurate information on the billability of the claim as an alternative source of funding, instead of borrowing, therefore, on the charging of claims from these famous giant public sector debtors. On top of that, we don't even have an agreement ahead of us, so we don't know exactly what is agreed in that agreement, in exchange for these objectively favourable terms of funding. So it's all pretty nontransparent, cloudy water. This project is good and necessary and it is not controversial. He introduces new technologies and protects the environment, we've said that many times in this debate. And yes, a German state loan is more favourable than a commercial or fast cash loan, and that's what we said. True, the state has the right to regress, that if the EPS doesn't pay, the state pays for it, and then the EPS regresses, but that's not an obligation, that's the right. I'm all afraid that the state of EPS will use the right to regress and besides, what guarantee is that to the state? If the EPS wasn't able to repay the loan and pay the creditor, why do we think he'd be able to pay the state? That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17043	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17044	I have to tell you, I haven't taken a moment to make an ideal picture of the EPS situation. So EPS isn't great. EPS is a very complex company, a very difficult firm for both management and management. I repeat, over 7,000 megawatts of installed power, annual production of coal almost 38 million tonnes, the fourth largest producer of coal in Europe, a very large, complex and difficult management system. Every time there's a promotion, there's a lot of problems. It's part of the problem in unpaid claims, especially from companies that have passed the restructuring process. I have to say, personally, I think it's a good thing that these companies, by the name of the so-called "we" didn't fail, because if we had shut down the power and stopped the production, we would have stopped some cities, so it's all part of a difficult economic environment that this government is trying to change. And I am absolutely convinced that in the last few years, she has been very successful in changing a single overall economic picture and the opportunities that we have all been through together. I believe that what we're doing in the EPS billing process is good, it's going slowly, but it's going through some safe steps and we're helping businesses survive, which I think is very important. When it comes to ash, you're right, there are more than 200 million tons of ash. We can't make anyone use that ash. We're trying to promote the possibility of using it, but, you know, in Serbia every innovation is hard to get by. In Serbia, they fought against railways and street lighting. It all takes a while.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17045	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We're moving to the fourth item of the agenda. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular, following a principled search. Members of the 1st amendment were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic and Vladimir Djuric. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17046	This is another bill entirely similar to the one we discussed today and yesterday. It's just that citizens know about the 15m-euro debt. You will say again that these are guarantees, but we have convinced you, we have convinced citizens first of all, through these discussions and we will continue, that you are uncontrollably in charge of the state and thus you are in charge of the citizens of Serbia, so the question is, how are we going to get out of these debts that the Government of the Republic of Serbia imposes on us, in the follow-up of what we had from the previous government? We have achieved 69.2 participation in GDP well, which is much more than what our Budgetary System Act provides. The question now arises here why did this law be passed by emergency procedure, including this member? You said that the reasons for the emergency procedure came from the fact that the entry into force and the application of the loan agreement, i.e. the withdrawal of funds and the reconciliation of the obligations of electricity networks reached, were subject to the entry into force of this law. And for five days you've assured us there will be no withdrawal of these funds. Do you really think we don't know how to read and we don't know how to think? We just want to draw attention to the citizens of Serbia who are following the work of parliament what you are actually doing and how you are trying to get some things under the grain. You have also written in your explanation that funds will be provided in the budget for the implementation of this law, and in the second sentence you say the funds are provided in the budget for this year of 15m euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17047	Thank you, you've wasted group time. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17048	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, I've had a lot to talk about before, but since both laws are quite similar and they deal with the same subject, I wanted to discuss it together. Regardless of what needs to be done on Serbia's power grid, it is the second phase of making the Trans-Balkan Corridor and what is good for the country of Serbia, I, personally and the Serbian Movement Group of MPs, will vote against this. Why should we vote against it? Here in these papers we got, we got a lot of things we know, but it seems to me there are more things we don't know. We know the cost of the entire programme is 29.600,000 euros. We know that 6,468,000 euros is a donation. We know that the loan is 15,000,000 euros and that there are still own funds to provide the "Electro Network of Serbia". I'm asking Mr. Minister to listen to me, because I've really listened to you all these days. What else do we know? We know that the commission to organise the job is 0.75%, and it is mathematically 112,500 euros. We know that fixed interest is 0.8% a year, and when this is calculated, given the grace period of three years and the payment from 2020 to 2029 on an annual basis, that total, together with these guarantees, that is to say, a commission to organise a job over a 15,000,000 sum, is another 938,831,65 euros. But what don't we know here? We don't really know how much the works on that other stock, the second path of the Transbalkan Corridor, and we don't know how many services, consulting and other costs, as it says, and we don't know because we didn't get the agreement we were supposed to get here either. The experiences of the agreements that have been verified in this Assembly so far and I have studied and talked about, say that those who perform as lenders often force their firms to perform those parts of jobs that are easier and more economically profitable, so that we do not know how much Serbian firms will work here, whether they will work harder parts of work, and less economically profitable and whether, in this case, the lender, the German Bank, will have, in addition, what they will have as interest, which will have as a loan commission, have additional profits. Yesterday, Mr. Minister, you said we weren't happy about this loan, and that's something where you and I agree. Well, I'm not happy about the loan either, but you also said and assured us that both EPS and EMS are domestic. It's something where you and I can never agree, and I'll explain later why we can't agree. Since the money is for the second part of the Balkan corridor, which will work from the Kings to the Kragujevac, and where should we change the voltage in the network from 220 to 400 kilovolts, I am interested in whether some companies that are related to the city of Kralje will be involved? Of course, maybe he will, I couldn't see it, because I repeat, we don't have an agreement. Why won't you and I ever agree that it's a domestic business? You're the Minister of Energy and you should know some things that I don't doubt you don't, because I think you're well-intentioned, which I'm about to tell you. What you call domestic business in the city of the King seems to be presented as follows. Do you know that there was a tender for a new year for the purchase of gilded cups and umbrellas of red silk, which will be paid out of the electricity distribution funds. This is the power grid and I know when they're separated, but I also know that power distribution will then be distributed by the power distribution that's part of the EPS. Do you know that this company doesn't have any more chairs to receive how many SNS and SPS personnel you've hired? Do you know that the head of the committee group, publicly on television, which is also the recording of, in the last assembly meeting, admitted to being employed by the EPS via the SNS? Do you know that an ex-species MP hired her husband in the EPS because the EPS director hired his wife in the SPS Directorate? Is that household business, Mr. Minister, I want to hear the answer? Is household business if the bill I receive in my dental office, where I have 600 dinars spent electricity amounts to three thousand dinars a month? Where do 2,400 dinars go? Is that the money that goes to EMS? I couldn't find the data I found for the EPS how much resources the EPS currently has. I don't have that information for the EMS, but I don't feel like this is a domestic business. In the end, I'm going to beg you, not when we're working, and about the past law, the seduction, to destroy all the ashes. Branimir Joni Stulić says – every little one of them goes up with ashes on the head. Leave us some ashes, we'll need some. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17049	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17050	Don't worry, there's 200 million tons of ash, so for that head-to-head spilling, it'll be for the next century. So, KFW very strict, very strict procedures for the realization of each loan. Every project is implemented in an international tender. There are no conditions for the previously defined seas this equipment, this manufacturer, the sea from that country, means absolutely nothing. The international tender, in the international tender, selects a contractor, the overall equipment, who makes the best offer. KWF as a lender controls every stage of the process, from the making of a tender, through its consultant to the realization of the whole project, and through the “Fidik Engineer”. So, very one serious and very transparent procedure. In the end, I really don't know these individual things in the King. What is certain is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is keeping an eye on and strictly insists on respecting some of the restrictions that exist on public sector entry, and if there are such cases, I will really check them out, and I will inform you of that next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17051	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Do you want a word? (No) Representatives Zoran Krasic, Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic and Vladimir Djuric submitted to the second amendment in the same text. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17052	The situation with these laws is really simple. This is a proposal for a guarantee law. What does that mean? When we give a guarantee to the law, then an authorized person signs a paper called a guarantee. Now, we have a situation here that on 1 March 2017 this paper was already delivered to this bank dealing with the development of Germany. If this were according to the laws on granting consent to a given guarantee, then it could be later, but this law requires that it be passed before and then that the paper Serbia guarantees. Just to remind you, Mr Antic, currently the Republic of Serbia has seven contracts that represent the direct obligation of the Republic of Serbia to this development bank of Germany. We have four arrangements where we give guarantees. It's all about the energy sector. Since we've heard there's money in the electro-price, there's too much to tell what's going to happen with that money, so invest that money in these two projects. Unlike the first law, where there was a public enterprise, there's a stock company here. Why are we helping society with limited responsibility? Why are we going into a guarantee once d.o.o. How's it going? I have to draw your attention, Mr. Anticius, to be careful, the Colubara, in 2000 they had the highest salary, so they threatened to strike to succeed the protest. Now Kolubara doesn't even have a current account. It's not even a company. Meanwhile, their union president fought for a change in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia about five years ago. Be careful with that Elektroprivreda. If you start firing in Lazarevec and the surrounding area, be aware that you will bear great responsibility because the empire strikes back. To remind you, you also have that electroprivred company in Slovenia that makes money and when electricity is imported and when electricity is exported and when there are intermediaries and when there are new investments.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17053	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17054	Thank you. All arguments that have already been made that are against the guarantee that the state of Serbia should give for the EPS loan are also valid for the ESM. Except for one letter, everything else is the same. I said yesterday, it's such a good company that someone's best man can run it without any special expertise or preparation. Maybe the citizens of Serbia don't know what it is or what it's for. It's a power line and it's a monopoly state that never privatizes anywhere because no one's going to buy it. That's where the losses are made, and that's technically what someone was already talking about, on the power lines, because there's never that amount of power coming from the power plant to the end-user. But here, it's even more pronounced, because it creates losses that are intended, which are losses that the ruling elite, under quotes, gives to its friends so they don't pay for electricity. Here, first of all, I mean "Sartid". There's a minister to tell me when Sartid paid for the last electricity, Sartid, "Gelezara Smederevo", when they last paid for the electricity, what was the last bill? What's their debt? The same question for the present minister is – how long is the Serbian glass factory's debt on the same basis? It's another fellow ruling elite, under quotes. This is Bulgaria's Cvetan Vasilev, who is otherwise wanted by the Bulgarian state through the red Interpol warrant, and is guarded by Toma Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic. These are topics that are of interest to the citizens of Serbia. The question is -- how can such a successful company not fund the poor 15m euros, how many of us are asking us to give a guarantee? I'm waiting for the minister to say something, not to defend himself with silence.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17055	Time. Thank you. He'll get back to you. There's just one more MP. As authorized, your group has time. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17056	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the accounts were told by my fellow farmer in an attempt. Given the weather, I thought he was dealing with the grape spray. How did that work in his day? One storm is made, fires are ordered, and then all citizens are invited not to pay for the electricity and to throw the bill into the barrels. In such a way, through dissatisfied citizens, whom he called for him to throw the bills into the barrels, into the fire, he gained a lot of barrels, a lot of storms on the Frust Mountain, and now he's giving us a lecture on commitment, on academic integrity. It should also be reminded of his acquired high school diploma and of the tour of this more in vain, so my advice to my fellow farmer that he no longer proposes to the citizens some solutions about not paying energy, bills, because it can bring them back to their debt and repay them. As for interest and credit, and objecting that credit is expensive, and spending money is used to it, but taking a loan of 0.8% interest, if my colleague was a farmer and a host, that means that you are below the rate of European inflation which is 2%, so that the price of money is negative, so I think it's better to take a loan of 0.8% interest than spend cash, because you can put cash in the budget, because the state is the founder of the EPS and that money of 45 million you can service a loan of the former regime that was at the interest rate of 6% and that you can be good at two to three million euros each year. However, since he did not finish the eighth grade of primary school, he find it difficult to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17057	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17058	Of course, I have no intention of going into an argument with the smartest, most beautiful, most witty and eloquent among you and the most educated. That's more than obvious. Your leader said, but it's also proof that even the smartest and most equative among you can speak falsely, in a very bad way. You can ask about my education who's going to sit next to you, so let him tell you that, if you're interested, but let's get back to the eternal issue of barrels and electricity bills. It is, of course, an absolute lie and the present minister used it the last time he was in parliament, but also because of Nisli and all other citizens of Serbia. So, the debts that occurred in 1996, when I was accused of doing what I didn't do, ate inflation in 1999 after the bombing. Power debts came in 1999 when Milosevic said electricity was not paid during the bombing, so he sent bills in October of that year. The government of Zoran Djindjic has forgiven interest on these debts and over 50% of the principal, so by the end of 2003 there is not a single cent of the electricity debt from any earlier period. It's true, they're all other lies. Whether he speaks the smartest among you or those less clever, those who are substitutes, those who are coalition partners, it's a completely irrelevant thing. What I'm telling you is the pure and clear truth, not about schooling and these things, it's clear as day, but about things that only an abnormal man, who can't pass a medical examination for an MP, can take credit when he's got cash.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17059	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree right now to examine my psychophysical condition, but to examine his as well. He constantly calls for medical examinations conducted by ministers in the government of Zoran Djindjic, but will not say he was not in the review. When he inherited the late prime minister, where I voted from the pitet to the late prime minister for him, he didn't go to the doctor's appointment, and he won't tell us, he was obviously afraid of something. I agree that we're going to the polygraph to see who's lying, in beauty I won't compete with him, I don't have that chance, he's the most beautiful, he's the smartest, it's Pavicevic's claim, and the polygraph determines if this is the person who spoke in Nis – throw the bills in the barrels, resistance to victory, resistance to the 200-square apartment on Vrakar, to see how he gained it. Is this the person who “Time” claims, and its members Istvan Kajic and Marko Matic, is that the person who kicked the passenger out of the train at full speed, “Time” writes 13.11.2014 just because he spoke English? So, I agree to establish, in beauty I have no chance with him, to carry out an I.Q. test, to go to a polygraph and to necessarily examine the psychophysical state of me and my fellow farmer, and since he didn't serve the army for the reasons known to me, I don't think he has any chance, and if we leave the IQ test he'll be negative.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17061	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17062	Since it's in fashion overnight setting up party aparachics who are ready to kneel easily to the highest functions in this country, I think we've heard here today a few candidates for some more vacant places, and from something just as soon as possible the smartest, most equivalent, etc. among you, I think this was a candidate for the head of military service, a secret of course, both at the same time or for the head of that office of relations with China, Russia, South Africa, Brazil, was another country, I can't remember which, with BRIX. It is very interesting that the president listens with deep understanding to this exhibition of insults of the worst kind, but well, that also speaks of how it becomes, how it comes to some places and what sacrifice everyone has to have in order to have a special place in this kind of government. I know that Serbian history is full of good solutions, that we are a people who always knew how to put themselves in a good way, that he knew how to choose good, not evil, normal and healthy people, not idiots and fools. I'm sure that soon that time will come back, and whoever recognizes what I'm saying and who hears well, and that's why it's being recognized, I recommend that he read a little Serbian history, he can learn a lot, if he hasn't already learned from law, economy, and I don't know what, a little bit from history. It's an excellent reading, and I want you all to get familiar with Serbian history.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17063	If I had a vice president, I'd be replicating you, but I don't have a vice president, so I have to sit here. So, I have to run the session myself, otherwise I'd be happy to rephrase it for you. Branimir Rancic, on what grounds? (Branimir Rancic: I come from Nis. It's a good thing you're coming from Nis, but it's just... Please, I can't give a word to representative Nis, but I can give it to Marijana Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17064	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've heard everything, except for the answer to the question, and it's interesting when two peasants fight, people enjoy it, is it true that my farmer from Nis bought an apartment of 200 squares that cost 500,000 euros? Is it true he bought it out of pay? Is it true he bought three garages? Yes or no. Is it true he borrowed his own 10% interest money? Yes or no. Here's the deal. Unbelievable. To justify the money, he borrowed his own 10% interest money, on June 21, 2013, the contract itself. Is it true that he received 525,000 euros in subsidies for the vineyard? Is it true that he registered the winery, in his own time, on the Virgin Islands? Is it true that his partner was a certain Puddar, who was suspected of a sugar affair? Is it true that this happened on Fruschgora? Is it true that he cashed that vineyard by selling to Milorad Kostic? We haven't heard those answers. Also, is it true that this plot, which he sold along with the company, was the subject of the restitution, which we from DOS, by contract with the people, we were to rotate with previous owners, and he sold it, so now the state, whether it is true, now the state has to pay compensation for those 52 hectares of 500 000 euros. Our farmer colleague didn't cost 500,000 euros, he cost a million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17065	Minister Antic, pray for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17066	I apologize, I applied for a word, first of all with the idea of going back to the amendment and on the subject and a few questions that the predecessors asked me. For the public, I have to do it again as soon as possible. It is the second phase of the construction of the "Transbalkan Corridor". It is about the construction of 400 squares of power lines between Kragujevac and Kraljev, with the rise of voltage in the Kingdom to three to 400 sq. It is a project of 29.6m euros, of which 15 million is a loan provided by KfW Bank, 6.4 million is a grant that monitors this project, it is a VB-6 project and I thank you, of course, for that grant. I repeat, these projects are subject to favourable credit lines. This is not funded from liquid liquidity, and it is indeed miles away that economic view that Mr. Zivkovic and I have on this issue. It's not funded from the cash Firmak has, so there are these lines of credit. "HE style", means new owners of "Storms", regularly meet all obligations for delivered electricity, each within a deadline and each in a dinar. The debt that exists, which you can also see on the website "Electroprived by Serbia", is the historical one that leads to "Sartid".
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17067	National MPs Milorad Mircic, Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic and Vladimir Djuric submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17068	First of all, to be clear, the SRS is not against these projects. The projects themselves are justified, but we are still against this way of funding these projects, which is the very role of the state. There's one valid reason because, we just heard from the minister, an attempt to explain that the lender, he will, by some objective international criteria, find the contractors. It's the only thing one can believe that, and there's no idea what's going on on the European market, and every day we're more and more witnesses that "Simens" is a dominant company, when it comes to electricity, when it comes to producing some other appliances in the field of electricity. Now we need to believe that the German Development Bank, by objective criteria, is ultimately no problem, if the technology is top-of-the-line, if it meets everything, is in any case appropriate. What's a very, very bad experience, is that, looking at the history of the newer and the events that happened in Ukraine's space, we have similar examples. The Ukrainian Parliament, in the same, or almost identical manner, explained the justifications of entering credit arrangements with the World Bank, or with the German Development Banks. What is the connection between this Parliament and this debate and what was happening in Ukraine? The finance minister here was director of the World Bank for Ukraine and you see the situation now in Ukraine. We, out of that fear, do not want to engage in such adventures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17069	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17070	Thank you very much. Of course, the same argument as we just heard. Now, the minister has given another newest argument, which is that "Zelezara Smederevo" has no electricity debts, but that it is "Sartid". It means the solution, changing our names, and, let's say, radicals become advances or something. (Zoran Krasic: He's attacking us. Free radicals, not parties. Then there's no debts, then it's all spent. It doesn't exist. Now it's paid regularly. Of course, it doesn't pay regularly now. You take this as a parliamentary question, so send me a formal response to pay everything since they took over the Chinese "Sartid". On the other hand, you have not given me an answer for the Serbian glass factory, you have not given me an answer for many other companies that I have already mentioned in this debate. Finally, I think it's clear to everyone what this is all about and it's just a matter of stubbornness and showing power, that although nothing is right, even though these are pointless laws, they will go away because we will and because we have enough MPs to vote and who will support it. What one of them said, the smartest, the most efficient, the most, most recently, about me, is absolutely incorrect and false. My property, like any normal man and politician in Serbia, is listed and is available on the Anti-Corruption Agency's website, and as far as I'm concerned, the past head of the BIA, both current and future, and all left right, prosecutors, cops, all alive who know how to read two and two, can deal with my property. I'm a public figure, unfortunately a politician, and I have to be prepared for that. Look what you did in your village.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17071	Thank you. The word is Sonja Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17072	Thank you very much. Mr. Antichu, you keep trying to...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17073	Excuse me, MPs, you're not at the DJ anymore? You don't have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17074	I've got time on my own.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17075	But it's spent three on its own, the fourth one's gone, it says in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17076	What's the third one on his own?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17077	Three independents, no fourths.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17078	I got information that I have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17079	Who did you get the information from, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17080	I'm here. From the secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17081	You've already spoken on that basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17082	I'm not six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17083	MPs, read the Rules of Procedure, once to five minutes, not 66 times a few seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17084	Okay, good thing you're mad?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17085	I'm not mad.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17086	Tell me, how much time do I have left and everything is correct then?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17087	I didn't follow up on who was in which group of MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17088	There's no reason, you say you have a minute, you don't have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17089	No, you don't have a minute. Whoever informed you, works in the departments, could learn the Rules of Procedure for all the time he's been working here. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17090	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my fellow farmer spoke of the debts of Sartida. The truth works, and the citizens do, it is this person, under very suspicious circumstances "Sartid" was sold in 2003. That's what my colleague Krasic knows. It was sold during "Sablje", the prime minister was, my fellow farmer. Under very dubious circumstances, there have been various proceedings in the prosecution. The debt, when he was already talking about debts, which he left to the state during the sale of the then-Sartid, or "Smederevo Irons", which belonged to the state, was over $1.5 billion. So, $1.5 billion left a debt to the state, when it is with Vlahovic, Mr Krasic will explain it a little bit better, I give him the right to use it as a replica, but at least $1.5 billion has gone to the state, to privatise it during "Sablje", in very unfortunate times, and then you can figure out where he got the 500,000-euro apartment on Vrakar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17091	Minister Antic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17092	I didn't say "KfW" was conducting a tender, my colleague Mircic. "Electroprivred Serbia", or "Electro Networks of Serbia", under this second law, will conduct tenders by which they will select the most favourable bidder, with the sole obligation to tender-agent "KfW" to agree on tender documentation. I repeat, it would be pointless not to accept such a project for which we have a 6.5m-euro grant as an investment grant that is supported and in this VB6 mechanism, I repeat, to the total value of the project 29.6m, 6.4 million is a grant. I think it is very favourable for the Republic of Serbia and it is perfectly understandable why we have defined ourselves for this way of managing this project which, I repeat, is capitalal. Even those who disagree with it and will not vote for this law, say the project itself is important and that the project itself is good. I repeat, "The Iron" pays its current obligations. Since the company H Steel has become the owner of the Irons, they have been at peace with their regular running obligations. Since there is a historical debt, the contract itself did not provide for it to be regulated by the Chinese partner. When it comes to other companies, I repeat, I would very much like to give answers to parliamentary questions, but I am referring you all to an EPS website where each month a table of 20 biggest debtors is appended, where you can monitor whether they regularly settle their obligations and whether they reduce debt. And what I can tell you is that most of the 20 biggest debtors have this trend that they reduced debt in 2017, e.g. About 12 companies, I think.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17093	Thank you. Replica, MP Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17094	You just said what is essential - the tender a.d. "Electro Networks" is called in, Mr. Antiću, but consent is given by the bank. That's the point, and that's exactly why you needed to deliver this agreement to us to see the details of the agreement. Let's see if it's contained in the agreement. What's confusing about lending this project, is whether there were other options or alternatives to this loan. We see here that the consumer of this power that will go through power lines, one part through Serbia, and from Ukraine, not to repeat, is Italy. Are Italian development banks interested in this project? Are any other banks developmental? Why the German Development Bank? Hypothetically, this is more a question now. Anyway, don't be mad at Mr Antic if we talk about the details. We're talking about something that matters. If we had an alternative or if you had more offers, let's see if this is the most favourable. That's all it's about. We, Serbian radicals, insist on it, as we insist that you finally form polling committees in the Serbian Parliament, to determine what the previous government or previous previous authorities were doing in their mandate. Did they steal as much as they did, whether this current government was involved in crime, it's a matter of polling committees. Especially in this area. Don't forget, the current newly elected president of Serbia, and the current Prime Minister, was head of the Survey Committee, which is... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17095	Thank you. The right to a replica of a proposing representative, Minister Antic. Here you go. You're right, Mr. Sarovic. [[Nemanja Sarovic: There is no right to replication. The minister can't get a replica.]] I thought Mr. Antic answered the questions asked, but according to the Rules of Procedure, there is no possibility. Next time or next amendment. Thanks for the suggestion. Members of the 4th amendment were submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic and Vladimir Djuric. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17096	Just because Mr. Secretary doesn't have a right doesn't mean MPs have a right. I assume you know that we have incomparably more rights. The Serbian Radical Party has submitted the amendment to the fourth member, and we are also seeking to delete because we are in principle against the whole of this law and there is no other way to say it. That's why we haven't corrected it, that's why we haven't given any other solution, because we want this whole law never to come into force. There's a lot of things that are controversial. You're bringing it back, Mr. Antic, and you need to explain it to us, by emergency procedure. The contract was signed on 1 March. The only way you can do this is if you couldn't predict something. What extraordinary circumstances are now that you couldn't predict. This law could have been done on a regular basis. He could have done it two months ago. He could have done it a month ago. He could have done it whenever you wanted, but of course you didn't. One more thing about what you were talking about with Mr. Mircic. So it's not true that the bank gives consent. The bank prescribes rules and that's what's in the material that you delivered us because we didn't get the contract. Here it stands, which means – the procurement of works and equipment according to the rules "KfW", according to their rules. They're the ones who prescribe the rules. They're not the ones who give consent. As an EPS attribute, they say – yes. So, the EPS is here in a child condition. He's a party that has to agree to something, or EMS. They're under the rules, and it's clear. You might not know that, the Germans will. They'll write a tender so they get their company. That's quite clear. Another very important issue, he says -- the commission to organise the job is 0.75% of the amount of the loan. It doesn't stand who gets that commission, Mr. Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17097	Thank you. An amendment to which a new Article 4a is added after Article 4. together, MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17098	Thank you, Chairman. I will repeat why we have submitted this amendment which is the same as the amendment to the previous law, and it says that the agreement under which it is required that the National Assembly guarantee an integral part of this law. Once again to express my protest and dissatisfaction as to why the MPs to this day could not get this agreement to see it. We hear as much as the ministers who change around here think they are on tape. They introduce us to certain parts of the agreement, but only what they think they should tell us, not everything. There is a constant exchange of thesis and avoidance of answers to some questions. So, what are the actual costs of this loan? There's always talk of a loan rate. The interest is 0.8%. I keep telling you, our law that defines the notion of effective interest rates related to loans that every citizen takes and there is said to be an effective interest rate covering all fees and fees paid by the client to the bank in the approval of the loan, all, including these 0.75% commissions or "front et vi", and also 0.25% for undrawn funds by dynamics that we don't know because we didn't get the agreement. In order for all these questions to be answered and to avoid the debate and shorten it, it could all be done that the agreement was delivered to the Assembly, or that it became an integral part of this law that we asked for by amendment. When it comes to ESM, I would like to ask one question about this Transbalkan Corridor, which is why this loan is being taken – did the Transbalkan credit ESM buy 10% of the shares of the power grid or what is it called, Montenegro's electricity transmission system? Why is this transaction paid 9% higher than the price shares the day before and the day after, since that purchase was made on the stock market? Why was it bought by small shareholders? Who is behind this in Montenegro and what was Serbia's interest in buying those 10% shares, to pay 13.8m euros? So, you subscribe to 9%, because the stock was worth 87 cents a day, 95 cents paid, and the day after that it was worth 87 cents on the stock market. What about today's 65-cent stock, which is almost 5m euros lost? That's one-third of this loan, lost in one business that's never been explained. What was Serbia's interest in all this? Was it an interest to get this loan, because then the funds that we're going to pay for how much this loan is going to cost us, not 7.8 but 50%? These are the questions that we need to get in order to support a possible guarantee, and we have not heard a single word from the minister on these issues so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17099	Thank you. The word has a proposing representative, Minister Aleksandar Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17100	There are some unwritten rules and these international financial institutions usually don't like to compete on projects that are financed from them and rarely when we have to say, more offers, so we now choose which of them is the most favourable. We also had an IBRD offer and a KfW offer on this particular project. The definition was to offer KfW because it was more favourable. Whether KfW funding is being made, the IBRD, there is always the clause that the tender procedure is conducted under the rules of the international financial institution that finances it. (People's MPs Milorad Mircic and Nemanja Sarovic win. I speak to all MPs, but I comment on what you asked. On the other hand, I repeat, an extremely important pan-European project that has more phases. At the first stage is this direction of Ukraine, Italy, the second direction is Turkey, Central and Western Europe. As such, I think it is extremely favourable for Serbia. I repeat, it has a 6.48m-euro guarantee that makes the project even more quality. Finally, the EMS became owners of 10% of Montenegro's electrotransmitter. I really don't know how this is defined on a daily or monthly basis on the stock market.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17101	Thank you, time. Mr. Mircic, you have no basis for replication. The Minister has not spoken to you for a moment. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic and Vladimir Djuric submitted the 5th amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17102	Mr Milicevic, you have violated Article 103 and Article 104, or I call on Article 103, and you have violated Article 104, which speaks of the replica, and Article 103 says that the MP has the right to orally point to a violation of the actions of the President of the National Assembly. Mr. Antic was clearly talking about the display of Milorad Mircic. Not only that, he said directly – yes, Mr. Mircic, I comment on what you said. He misread his presentation, and that is a clear basis for replication. I really don't know why you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, if the debate is in a completely peaceful and democratic tone. Let's keep going that way.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17103	Thank you, Mr. Sarovic. I agree with you completely, we will continue in a peaceful and democratic tone. I did not realize that Mr. Antic spoke to Mr. Mircic, nor did he mention the name of Parliamentarian Milorad Mircic at any point during his discussion. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? Yeah. I thank you. According to the amendment, Natasa Jovanovic's MP has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17104	At the end of the review of the amendments under this law and Mr. Minister, I believe that you will accept my argument that the EMS is now a stock company made in 2005 by detachment from the EPS to rob electricity. For Serbian citizens, it is the simplest thing to say, it is the highway for electricity, used by Vuk Hamovic and Vojin Lazarevic. To make one parallel, since you were talking about how much EPS, 400, 500m euros, and that's not much, Hamovic has a thermal power plant and it's only one part of his wealth, right, Mr Arsic, because you were also a witness to that robbery, 400 million as they say at least dollars, how much is it estimated and now offers it to Croatians to buy. How did he get that fortune? It is precisely this company that now wants to be in debt with 15m euros, that the government of the Republic of Serbia guarantees after all for it, which is a stock company, and has been using all the time to rob electricity to make the two rich first. If that's what the fact is, and you had to do it as a resolute minister and before you a minister, to make four companies that will manage, it's a professional term, so I have to read it – the transformation cells of 110 kilowatts. Why would EMS give it up? It is precisely because it should only be used in the right sense of the word highway, that electricity passes, that someone from there is taking a Kajmak, and on the other hand we explain to citizens all day that 15m euros is owed to this company that we have to return, or Serbian citizens if something happens to them, because they are a stock company.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17105	I thank my colleague Jovanovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17106	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, these loans we're about to grant will be recovered by the EPS and the EMS. That's very clear. Only the EPS had 100m euros in profit data last year. It is very clear as long as the majority rule that EPS and EMS will be able and able to repay their loans. If God doesn't come to a change and yellow ducks come back again, then I'm not sure. That's why it's the citizens' interest not to return this loan, to keep this government stable, namely to control EPS and EMS, to keep them stable, to make profits and to return credit. So the message to the citizens is – if you want the EPS and the EMS to repay this loan without the citizens returning it, not to be on your burden, it is up to you to vote for this ruling majority in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17107	Thank you. After we've completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the bill in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of the Parliament, given that the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint 23 May 2017, starting at 17.00 a.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the Fourth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-23-0.u17108	Dear MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 131 MPs are present in the hall. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 136 MPs, against – two abstentions – there are no votes, nine MPs have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Milorad Mircic and MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Djordje Vukadinovic and Slavisa Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. The parliamentary group Liberal Democratic Party – The League of Social Democrats Vojvodina - SDA Sandzak submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Zoran Krasic and the Social Democratic Party MP, People's Movement of Serbia, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Djordje Vukadinovic and Slavisa Ristic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that this amendment has not been accepted. Since we have completed our decision on amendments, I am putting to the vote the draft law supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 146, against – no one, the abstentioned – two, voted by two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill supplementing the Deposit Insurance Act. I am voting on the draft law supplementing the Deposit Insurance Agency Act, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 147 against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MP Milorad Mircic and MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Djordje Vukadinovic and Slavisa Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 1 of the amendment was submitted by the Devere parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The parliamentary group Liberal Democratic Party - The League of Social Democrats Vojvodina - SDA Sandzak submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 2nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Zoran Krasic and MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Movement of Serbia. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Djordje Vukadinovic and Slavisa Ristic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Since we have concluded our decision on amendments, I am putting to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on Deposit Insurance Agency, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 149, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted by two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill supplementing the Deposit Insurance Agency Act. I am voting on the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank KfW, Frankfurt in May, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise Elektroprivreda Serbia, Belgrade (Modernisation of the Te Nikola Tesla A Immobilisation System), in principle. I conclude the vote: no three MPs voted for – 142 against – seven abstentions. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Marinika Tepic, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Marinika Tepic, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Milorad Mircic, Marinika Tepic, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendments, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Marinika Tepic, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Movement of Serbia, have tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 4a be added after Article 4. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Marinika Tepic, Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Having concluded our decision on the amendments, I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Germany's KfW Development Bank, Frankfurt, in May, following the responsibility of the Public Enterprise Elektroprivreda Srbija, Belgrade (Modernisation of the Te Nikola Tesla A Immigrant System), in general. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: no three MPs voted for – 142 against – seven abstentions. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all MPs, adopted the Bill on the Guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Germany's KfW Development Bank, Frankfurt, in May, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise Elektroprivreda Srbija, Belgrade (Modernisation of the Te Nikola Tesla A Remembrance System). I am putting to the vote the draft law on granting the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank KfW, Frankfurt in May, under the responsibility of the Electric Network of Serbia Action Society, Belgrade (Regionn programme of energy efficiency in the transmission system), in principle. I conclude the vote: no two MPs voted for – 143 against – seven abstentions. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic and Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic and Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Milorad Mircic, Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic and Vladimir Djuric submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 4th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Nemanja Sarovic, Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic and Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment, added after article 4, was submitted by a parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party and the People's Movement of Serbia. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic and Vladimir Djuric submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. As we have concluded our decision on the amendments, I am putting to the vote the draft law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank KfW, Frankfurt, in May, under the responsibility of the Electric Network of Serbia Action Society, Belgrade (Regionn Energy Efficiency Programme in the Transit System), in principle. I conclude the vote: no three MPs voted for – 142 against – seven abstentions. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all MPs, adopted the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of the German Development Bank KfW, Frankfurt, in May, under the responsibility of the Electric Network of Serbia, Belgrade (Regionn programme of energy efficiency in the transmission system). I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Democratic Party's parliamentary group, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 148, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 149, against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. We're moving on to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 18 May 2017, at 14 o'clock, pointed to a violation of Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 19 May 2017, at 11 o'clock and 18 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 96. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 19 May 2017, at 13 hours and 49 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 18 May 2017, at 14 o'clock, pointed to a violation of Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 19 May 2017 at 17.00 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 112. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Goran Ciric, at a session on 19 May 2017 at 17.13 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 104(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 19 May 2017 at 18.04 hours, pointed to a violation of Articles 100 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Vladimir Djuric, at a session on 23 May 2017 at 11.02 p.m., pointed to a violation of Articles 158 and 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Radoslav Milojičić, at a session on 23 May 2017 at 11:57 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 23 May 2017 at 11.59 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, at a session on 23 May 2017 at 12.22 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 23 May 2017 at 14.16 p.m., pointed to a violation of Articles 103 and 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please decide on this injury. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017.
