ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25148	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the sittings. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum in the voting day exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 131 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We move to a decision on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 12 of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on dual education to the vote, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – four, abstentions – there are no, of a total of 139 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On behalf of President I, the name above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned from a total of 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, were tabled by MPs Zoran Krasic, Nikola Savic and Vjerica Radeta, five MPs from the Parliament group, five MPs from the Parliament group, and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention from a total of 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the Dvori Group proposed amendments to Article one of the amendments. 1, 7, 8, 13, 21, 22, 23, 25 and 26. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To be named above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment, 15 MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention from a total of 141 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic, five MPs of the Parliament group, five MPs of the Parliament group, and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned from a total of 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 3rd and Article 3rd Amendment, 15 MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned from a total of 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were tabled by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Vjerica Radet, five MPs from the Parliament group, five MPs from the Parliament group, and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned from a total of 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is abstention, from a total of 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title above Articles 4 and 4 of the amendment, 15 MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention from a total of 141 people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 4th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Aleksandra Belačić and Vjerica Radet, five MPs from the Parliament group, five MPs from the Parliament group, and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter II, the name above Articles 5 and 5 of the amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, of a total of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarovic and Vjerica Radet, five MPs of the Parliament group, five MPs of the Parliament group, and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned from a total of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the 6th and 6th Amendment, 15 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – four, against—no one, the abstentioned, has a total of 144 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Vjerica Radet, five MPs of the Parliament group, five MPs of the parliamentary group SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned, has a total of 144 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned, has a total of 144 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. No one's answered. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title above Articles 7 and 7 of the amendment, 15 MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – none of the abstentions – there are 144 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Momcilo Mandic, and Vjerica Radet, five MPs of the Parliament group, five MPs of the Parliament group, and five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – four, against—no one, the abstentioned, has a total of 144 MPs present. On behalf of the above members of the 8th and Article 8th amendments, 15 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 8th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs together Vjerica Radeta, Dubravko Bojic and Zoran Krasic, five MPs from the Parliament group, five MPs from the Parliament group, and five MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the title above Articles 9 and 9 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has, of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 9th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs together Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, five MPs from the Parliament Group of Independent MPs, five MPs from the MP group Enough were five MPs from the SDS, NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, there are 145 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Democratic Party's 15 MPs submitted to the title above Articles 10 and 10 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - four, against - no one, the abstentioned - has, of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 9th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Ruzica Nikolic and Vjerica Radet, five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club, five MPs from the MP group, and five MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, there are 145 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To be named above members 11 and Article 11 of the amendment, 15 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has, of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 11th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Miroslava Stankovic-Đuričić and Vjerica Radet, five MPs from the Parliament group of Members, five MPs from the parliamentary group SDS, and five MPs from the SDS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – four, against – no one, with abstention – has a total of 146 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has a total of 147 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – none of the abstentions – there are 147 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 12th and Article 12th amendments, 15 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has a total of 147 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Zoran Krasic, five MPs of the Parliament group of members of the Independent Parliament, five MPs of the MP group, and five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – two, against – none of the abstentions – there are a total of 148 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has a total of 148 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter III and Article 13 of the amendment, 15 MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – there are 1,49 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were tabled by MPs Zoran Krasic, Bozidar Delic and Vjerica Radet, five MPs from the Parliament group, five MPs from the Parliament group, and five MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, with abstentions, has a total of 148 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the title of Part 1 of Chapter III, the name above Articles 14 and 14 of the amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the Democratic Party Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, there are a total of 148 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 14th amendment, in the same text, were tabled by MPs together Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic, five MPs from the Parliament group, five MPs from the Parliament group, and five MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has a total of 148 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To be named above Articles 15 and 15 of the amendment, 15 MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for—six, against—no one, with abstentions, has a total of 148 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Verica Radeta, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic, five MPs of the Parliament group, five MPs of the Parliament group, and five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for - four, against—no one, with abstentions, has a total of 147 MPs present. I find that the Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title above Articles 16 and 16 of the amendment, 15 MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 16th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Verica Radeta, Tomislav LJubenović and Zoran Krasic, five MPs of the Parliament group, five MPs of the Parliament group, and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the same assembly. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for four, none of the 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, with a total of 147 MPs present, for six, against the abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To be named above members of the 17th and Article 17th amendments, 15 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, with a total of 147 MPs present, for six, against the abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Marina Ristic and Vjerica Radet, five MPs of the Parliament group, five MPs of the Parliament group, and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, with a total of 147 MPs present, for six, against the abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 18 and of the 18th amendment, 15 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, with a total of 147 MPs present, for six, against the abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Verica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Aleksandar Seselj, five MPs from the Parliament group, five MPs from the Parliament group, and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, with a total of 147 MPs present, for six, against the abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, with a total of 147 MPs present, for six, against the abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title above Articles 19 and 19 of the amendment, 15 MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, with a total of 147 MPs present, for six, against the abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Verica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic, five MPs of the Parliament group, five MPs of the Parliament group, there were also five MPs of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has, of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members of the 20th and Article 20th amendments, 15 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for—seven, for—seven, none of the peoples who are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Verica Radeta, Filip Stojanovic and Zoran Krasic, five MPs from the Parliament group, five MPs from the Parliament group, and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, for—six, against—no one who is present, of the 148 MPs who are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, of the total 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Part II of Chapter III, the title above Articles 21 and 21 of the amendment was filed by 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for eight, none of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 21st Amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Nikola Savic and Vjerica Radet, five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club, five MPs from the MP group, and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the same vote. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for—seven, for—seven, none of the peoples who are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment, 15 MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for—seven, for—seven, none of the peoples who are present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic, five MPs from the Parliament group, five MPs from the Parliament group, and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has, of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was brought together by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic, five MPs from the Parliament group of members, five MPs from the MP group, enough was enough, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and 15 MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, with a total of 147 MPs present, for six, against the abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title above Articles 24 and 24 of the amendment, 15 MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I hereby conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, for - three, against - the abstentions - from the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Aleksandra Belačić and Vjerica Radet, five MPs of the Parliament group, five MPs of the Parliament group, and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against them there is none, the abstentioned, of the total of the 1149 Messengers present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members 25th and Article 25th of the amendment, 15 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against them there is none, the abstentioned, of the total of the 1149 Messengers present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarovic and Vjerica Radet, five MPs from the Parliament group, five MPs from the Parliament group, and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for eight, against—no one, the abstentioned—is present, of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 25th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – one, with abstention – there is no, of a total of 149. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To be named above Article 26 and Article 26 of the amendment, 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group have submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – nine, against – no one, with abstentions – has, of course, a total of 149. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 26 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Vjerica Radet, five MPs from the Parliament group of Members, five MPs from the DJB group and five MPs from the SDS group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions – has, of course, 148. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter IV, the name above Articles 27 and 27 of the amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions – has, of course, 148. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was brought together by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Momcilo Mandic, five MPs from the Parliament group of members, five MPs from the DJB group and five MPs from the SDS group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 28th and of the 28th Amendment, 15 MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 28th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, five MPs from the Parliament group, five MPs from the DJB group and five MPs from the SDS group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter V, the name above Articles 29 and 29 of the amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Vjerica Radeta, Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Zoran Krasic, five MPs of the Parliament group of Members, five MPs of the DJB group and five MPs of the SDS group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title above Articles 30 and 30 of the amendment, 15 MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 30 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Ruzica Nikolic and Vjerica Radet, five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club, five MPs from the DJB group and five MPs from the SDS group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivic, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: for – four, against – one, with abstention – there is no, of a total of 148. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter VI, the name above Articles 31 and 31 of the amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 31st Amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Miroslava Stanković Đuričić, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic, five MPs from the Parliament group of Members, five MPs from the DJB group and five MPs from the SDS group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 32nd and of the 32nd Amendment, 15 MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 32 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Nikola Savic and Vjerica Radet, five MPs of the Parliament group of the Independent Members, five MPs of the DJB group and five MPs of the SDS group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 32nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter VII, the name above Articles 33 and 33 of the amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 33 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Zoran Krasic, five MPs of the Parliament group, five MPs of the DJB group and five MPs of the SDS group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 34th and of the 34th Amendment, 15 MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 34 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandar Seselj, five MPs from the Parliament group of members of the Independent Members' Club, five MPs from the DJB group and five MPs from the SDS group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted together to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter VIII and Article 35 of the amendment, 15 MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 35 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Verica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic, five MPs of the Parliament group, five MPs of the Parliament group, there were also five MPs of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Head IX and Member of the 36th Amendment, 15 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 36 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Verica Radeta, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic, five MPs of the Parliament group, five MPs of the Parliament group, five MPs of the Parliament group, and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 37 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Dubravko Bojic, five MPs from the Parliament group, five MPs from the Parliament group, enough was enough, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and 15 MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Chapter X and Article 38 of the amendment, 15 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 38 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, five MPs from the Parliament group, five MPs from the MP group, enough were five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 39 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Verica Radeta, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic, five MPs of the Parliament group, five MPs of the Parliament group, five MPs of the Democratic Party, five MPs of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and 15 MPs of the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 10 against – none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 40th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs together Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Dubravko Bojic, five MPs from the Parliament group, five MPs from the Parliament group, enough was enough, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and 15 MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 41 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Vjerica Radeta, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic, five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Parliaments, five MPs from the MP group, enough was enough, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and 15 MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned for nine. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on dual education in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – 10 abstentions – there is no, no vote – eight, of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on dual education. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and detail, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Preschool Education and Education Act, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 134 against – two abstentions – there is no, no vote – 13, of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Parliamentarians Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic together submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandra Belačić and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Sreto Peric and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 5th amendment in the same text, MPs together, Verica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic, and five MPs of the MP group, submitted enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 6th amendment in the same text, the MPs together, Verica Radeta, Nemanja Sarovic and Zoran Krasic and five MPs of the parliamentary group, submitted six MPs of the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 7th amendment in the same text, MPs together Tomislav LJubenović, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic and six MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 8th amendment in the same text, the MPs together Bozidar Delic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic and five MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted enough of the six MPs of the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 11th amendment in the same text, MPs together Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic and six MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by five MPs from the MP group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to Article 14 of the amendment enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 15th amendment in the same text, the MPs together Ruzica Nikolic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic and six MPs of the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the assembly had submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against those who are abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs were submitted to the 17th amendment by the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the MP group had submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic together submitted the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs were submitted to the 22nd amendment by the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 23rd amendment in the same text, MPs together, Aleksandar Seselj and Zoran Krasic, six MPs of the Democratic Party group and five MPs of the parliamentary group, submitted enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs were submitted to the 24th amendment by the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25 of the amendment in the same text, five MPs from the parliamentary group submitted enough with six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was filed by five MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 26th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th amendment was submitted by five MPs from the Single Serbia group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was filed by five MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment, with corrections, was jointly submitted by MPs Ljiljana Mihailovic, Vjerica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment, with corrections, was jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric and Miroslava Stankovic-Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 28th amendment, with corrections, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Marina Ristic and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for three, against one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radet, Natasa Jovanovic and Milorad Mircic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group submitted to the 29th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—one against—there is no one. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Preschool Education and Education Act, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137 against – four, abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Preschool Education and Education. We are moving to a decision on the 3rd item of the agenda – Proposal for an Amendments and Supplements to the Charter of Fundamental Education and Training. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – three, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Five MPs of the MP group have submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25149	On the 2nd amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and five MPs of the group of MPs, have submitted enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, abstentioned, who has not voted 143 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for one thing, but 145 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, has ever voted, has ever voted 146 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, has ever voted, has ever voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 145 MPs for – one against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic together submitted the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, has ever voted, has ever voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was filed by five MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, has ever voted, has ever voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted 145 MPs for – one against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, abstentioned, who has not voted 143 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, abstentioned, who has not voted 143 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment to Article 6 of the amendment has submitted five MPs to the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 145 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 145 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 145 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Dubravko Bojic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 145 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment On Article 11 of the amendment, five MPs of the Parliament group "Enough was enough". I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 145 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament's group "Club of Independent Members" submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Nikola Savic and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12 of the amendment, five MPs from the Parliament group "Club of Independent Members" submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment, with a correction, was filed by seven MPs from the Dveri group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ruzica Nikolic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted for 140 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 141 people's messenger, for two, against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 141 people's messenger, for two, against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 141 people's messenger, for two, against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 16th Amendment were together submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Parliament group, “There was enough, ” submitted to the amendment to Article 17. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, two, against—no one, the abstentioned, has voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament's group "Club of Independent Members" submitted to the amendment to Article 17. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three people. 141 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted by 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three people. 141 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the "Club of Independent Members" submitted to the amendment to Article 19. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, the abstentioned, voted 141 people's messenger, for two, against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – two, against – 138 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandar Seselj and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the Democratic Party group and together MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic submitted to the 22nd amendment in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted 139 people's messengers. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted 139 people's messengers. Five MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to Article 23 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. Five MPs of the Parliament group, “There was enough, ” submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. Five MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 26th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. Five MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to Article 26 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 26th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 27th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. The 27th Amendment was submitted by five MPs of the ‘Enough’ Group of MPs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapcevic and Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 27th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. Five MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to Article 28 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. Members of the 28th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Aleksandra Belacic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. Five MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. Five MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to Article 30 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Tomislav LJubenović and Vjerica Radet together submitted the 30th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. Members of the 31st Amendment were submitted to the same text: together with Zoran Krasic, Sreto Peric and Vjerica Radet and five MPs of the "Enough" group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. Five MPs from the Parliament's group "Club of Independent Members" submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. Five MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to the amendment of the 32nd. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. Six MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 32nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the MP group "Enough" submitted to the amendment of the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – two, against – 138 Members of the people. Five MPs of the "Enough" group submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25150	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, however, this member speaks about the structure of the enrolment, but when enrolling students in dual education, he also needs to take special care of the views and views of the economy, as well as their student capacity. Also about how much our students have gained knowledge based on reading on one side, and on the other, on the other hand, practical classes in elementary school in a particular profession. Dear Vice President, we've been listening here for two days to an opposition MP who's actually talking about what's not in the law here at all. We have a feeling they really haven't read the law. How would they read it, if they didn't want to read books, but they burned them in the library of this high house. I'm going to finish this with a quote from Joseph Brodski who was the winner of the 1987 Nobel Prize for Literature, who said – there's a worse crime than burning books, one of them is not reading, finished quote. Gentlemen of the opposition, read books and laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25151	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25152	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the amendment speaks of the structure of the enrollment. The minister's structure has to be that way, to be enough builders, that representatives of the former regime's party have to buy apartments in Vienna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25153	Thank you. The National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Božović, Gordana Komic, Dragoljub Micunović, Natasa Vuković, Vesna Marjanović, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojičić, Goran Jesic, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dusan Milisavljevic together. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25154	Thank you, Vice President. First, colleagues who recommend that we read books, recommend that they read spelling, so they should not think to propose amendments to which marks are placed in places where they are stuck according to the Serbian spelling should not stand. To express regret that some colleagues, such as co-worker Rakonjac, have joined this general witch hunt, with no children, and now respects those MPs who do not have children for caring for the general interest. So Article 8 is talking about the career development of students, and here's what our problem is with this member. The problem is that we believe that the entire career of students will be based on the lies that this law is based on, and that in Serbia unemployment is great because we do not have enough training, not because our economy is destroyed, there are no new jobs, there is no rule of law, only those who receive tens of thousands of euros per job and so on, and what is promised to these children in the light of the law, in the explanation of the minister and in the arguments given here by the MPs for days is also a lie. Three false promises that they will be able to continue their education, that they will be able to start their own business and that they will be employed by companies that work. It must not be based on these three lies that these children are told on career development and on the counseling that will be led by this occasion. So you're going from a lie, that's why there's a lot of unemployment, that people are stupid, lazy, incompetent, unprofessional, ignorant, etc. You promise them lies, and that's why this member of the law needs to be erased.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25155	The People's MP, Vesna Rakonjac, has the right to reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25156	Thank you to the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, above all, I have made an apology to the parents who have been marked to abuse their children. That's how I understood. That's what's said. (Alexandra Jerkov: That some parents will do it. It's a crime against a child. If that's how it's done, but it's punishable by the law of both the family and the criminal. Please allow me, without throwing away, I listened very carefully. [[Alexandra Jerkov: It is now a replica.]] So, no frustrations, which you have because of your failure. (Alexandra Jerkov: Excuse me, why don't you respond to the chairman? Do you hear that? This is a replica. I'll wait quietly for you to finish your chat, and then I'll tell you everything I have to tell you. You've had 12 years of time to introduce a reform of education by measure and the wish of Serbian citizens, you didn't do it. Now you're stegmatizing all the workmen's professions. Why do you do this, is it a shame to be an honest worker with a good salary today, with a good life? What's this about? Why are you scaring your parents and kids that they won't have a choice? They'll have the right to choose, but not everyone can be highly educational, it's just not natural. Not in any society. I'll give you an example. You've produced previous managers for everything and everything. Here, I'm going to give you an example of this, make a manager for bakery production, so get him to give you a lecture on how to make bakery products and to charge you well and well, how you took funds from European funds to hold which educations and lame lectures to educators and sell them fog these 12 years, instead of doing something with kids and educate them, you did the opposite.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25157	Thank you, co-worker Rakonjac. Right on the line, People's Messenger Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25158	Thank you, Vice President Arsic. It's no shame to be a worker. You know what shame is? It's a shame that you send a child to a factory, falsely promising to get a job, after finishing school, pay him for it 70% of the minimum wage, falsely promising to be able to continue schooling, falsely convincing him that he will be able to start his own business and apologize to his parents for saying that there are parents who live so poorly, that 10,000 dinars in the house and how they will mean, and that your parents will affect your children in combination with these lies, which you serve, to enroll in dual education, and that there is no word about any free choice of children to do so on their own. It's a shame and you should apologize to your parents for cheating on them and your children for convincing them for five years that they've been out of work because they're stupid, uneducated, lazy, waiting for something to fall out of the sky, unprofessional, that they're poor, that a better life is always somewhere else, that Serbia is swarming with investment, of progress, only to them and their family are not going because they're not good enough. It's a shame. You should apologize to them for that, and God forbid you should answer it. Because as much as you apologize to them, believe me, you won't be able to apologize enough for what you've done to them for the past five years. Not even those educators, who are full of mouths, who you've cut their wages to, or those pensioners you've kidnapped, not one man who works fairly in this Serbia, because in five years' time, only you, your members, your gods, friends, brothers and relatives, are better off, and everyone else is falling apart. That's what you need to apologize for.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25159	Right on the line, MP Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25160	Thank you, Chairman. The fact that parents live miserablely, it's your fault. It's your fault. We hire them and they don't live miserablely anymore. It's your fault. We can't fix what you did for 12 in 60 years. It was like the riding of locusts. Think about it. First we hire our parents, then give the kids a chance. How ashamed you are to abuse both children and parents in this way. When you don't have an argument, then you immediately grab on to wages and pensions, and you lead to bankruptcy of the state. Just to ask, are you taking a personal example, when you're from children, not to say with special needs, because all children have special needs, but with the disturbances in development, you took money from "Hetherland"? It's an example of how you act and how you reason and how you think. That's the way you think.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25161	I ask fellow MPs to let their colleague Rakonjac finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25162	You can't think differently, you only think that way, godfathers, friends, cousins. We think in a different way, Serbia above all, a healthy nation, an educated nation, educated children, a rising economy. You're sick of it, and you're sorry you didn't do it. You had your chance, the people punished you for not taking the opportunity. Take it once and for all. Maybe you'll get some votes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25163	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25164	Mr. Arsic, you have violated Articles 27, 104 and 107. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. You have the custom of acting practically in some parts of the session as if the Rules of Procedure did not exist. As chairman, you've allowed here some debate between ideological clones from SNS and DS... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25165	I give you a warning, Mr. Sarovic. Nemanja Sarovic: For what reason? ) Because you abuse the right to breach the Rules of Procedure and want to engage in a debate between MPs without a business basis. You could have answered the amendment. Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure! ) According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25166	So, article 103, you've now hurt. Article 103 says the MP has the right to orally point to an injury in the conduct of the National Assembly president, that he should specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured and that he has the right to explain within two minutes. I've listed three members of the Rules of Procedure that you've hurt, I've come to explain, and you've interrupted me. You have a lot of patience here to listen to anything that has nothing to do with the debate or the agenda or the amendments. You have a problem and not only you as chairman, but obviously someone else with me personally, because one Rules of Procedure applies to everyone else, and the other Rules of Procedure apply other rules to me, because you are trying to take away my right to personal income from me an unending, pointless, unfounded reminder to silence me. You won't do it, Mr. Arsic, because I'm a radical, not a former radical, and you keep forgetting it. There was no reason for you to give me a warning except that you don't like what I said politically and because I don't allow you to take it exclusively with the Democrats against which it's easy for you. You are thus creating some kind of false picture that there is a struggle in Serbia between your ideas and their ideas, and they are in fact identical to you. The Democratic Party has had a crucial impact on the formation of your party. Now, your solution is that every time I report to me, according to the Rules of Procedure, you'll give me a warning. That's your shame, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25167	Thank you. You can feel free to be angry with me, because the warning was made exactly in accordance with Article 103. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, in the position of the 7th Parliament, which states - the President of the National Assembly is obliged to impose on a national MP who does not adhere to the provisions of Articles 1, 2, 4 and 6 of this Article, or in another obvious way abuses the rights provided for in this Article, lay down the measures provided for in Articles 108 to 111 of this Rules of Procedure. So, you were going through the Rules of Procedure's Infringements Institute to replicate the SNS MP group and the DS MP group. That's exactly where you proved your second discussion of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Are you satisfied with the answer or do you want the Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? You want him to plead. All right. Nemanja Sarovic: No, I didn't say. I have the right to plead, to be heard by the people of Serbia. By the Rules of Procedure again. ) To plead, colleague Sarovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25168	So, Mr. Arsic, once again you have violated the Rules of Procedure, because you are asking me to plead beyond what the Rules of Procedure determines. So, I'm not going to plead to the conjugal actions, and I want to get a word and I have a right to do that. You've already, I've started to explain, that you've broken, I said, Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25169	If you keep going like this, you're going to get pissed off again for fines. I'm not going to give you any warning right now. (Nemnja Sarovic: Mr Arsic, no replica on the replica, simply no in the Rules of Procedure. I'm off again. Find it somewhere in the Rules of Procedure to write, so congratulations. Nemanja Sarovic: What do you say? Does anyone else want a word on this amendment? (No) (Balsa Bozovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I asked for word from the Rules of Procedure before Mr. Sarovic. ) Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25170	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. I don't want to replicate to anyone. You hurt Article 108 because you had to react when your colleague, let's say ours, accused colleague Aleksandra Jerkov and DS of allegedly stealing children with special needs at Heterland. If you think there was no reason to react, I think you're wrong, and I'll tell you why. Personally, along with Mr. Bojan Pajtic, I sued those who accused both DS and him personally. (Alexander Martinovic: I, as the defendants in this procedure, have the right to say. I just want to finish one sentence, so I have a right to explain it to you. The court has not yet been able to deliver a motion to the SNS, who flees from facing the court for this shameful lie, and you are ashamed, if you really think that you will get some political points in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25171	Just a moment for my colleague Bozovic, you would be absolutely right if I didn't allow my colleague Jerkov to say that SNS MPs are liars, that they lie to citizens, that they deceive them, etc. So the same criterion was for co-worker Jerkov and co-worker Rakonjac. (Alexandra Jerkov: I told the government. You're the one who told the government. Okay, I don't want to talk about eight or nine billion euros, when Slobodan Milosevic falls, or marks, or whatever it is, and salaries of two thousand marks, or the euro, so we can do it for days. Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Continue with your colleague Martinovic. [[Marko Djurisic: No replica can be found on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25172	I thank you, Mr. Arsic. So, I volunteered as someone who was sued by former DS President Bojan Pajtic, because the words of Balsa Bozovic were actually directed to me, not to lie. Unlike those who don't have the courage to mention names and pretend to be ignorant, I don't have that kind of fear. So, Bojan Pajtic sued me, because I said on several occasions that he, the Director of the Fund for the Development of the AP Vojvodina and the Capital Investment Fund, had embezzled more than one million euros of state money that was intended for reconstruction of so-called. The castle "Hatterland", otherwise it is a ruins that are absolutely not adapted to the housing of anyone, and especially not children distracted by development, and therefore Bojan Pajtic sued me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-08-0.u25173	On the 35th amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dvora Parliament group and five MPs from the MP group submitted enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 36th Amendment was filed by five MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not yet voted 140 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 137 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 36th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 37th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 138 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the amendment of the 37th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 138 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 138 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not voted by 138 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 42nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Dubravko Bojic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 42nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 42nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to the 43rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 43rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the MP group had submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 45th Amendment was filed by five MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 45th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 45th Amendment was submitted by five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 45th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the MP group had submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Six MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 46th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Diana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has ever voted with the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has ever voted with the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 47th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 49th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Nenad Canak, Olena Papuga and Nada Lazic submitted the 49th amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has ever voted with the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Sreto Peric and Vjerica Radet together submitted the 49th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to the 51st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 52nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 139 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 52nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one, not one, against the abstentioned ones, who has not voted 138 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 53rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 53rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 54th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one, against whom there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted 139 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 54th Amendment was filed by five MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 54th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 54th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 55th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 56th Amendment was filed by five MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the MP group had submitted to the 57th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 57th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the assembly had submitted to Article 58 of the amendment enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to the amendment of the 58th. That's enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to Article 58 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 58th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 59th Amendment was filed by five MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs to the 60th Amendment have submitted enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs together Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic and five MPs of the SDS, NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 140 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 60th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the MP group of the same text submitted to the 61st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 61st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 62nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the amendment of the 63rd, enough was enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the amendment to Article 63. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 64th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 65th Amendment was filed by five MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Parliament group had submitted to the 66th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to Article 66 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Six MPs of the DS Group submitted to the 66th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 66th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 67th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 133, against – one, abstention – one, six MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Fundamental Education and Education. We move on to a decision on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completions of the Law on Central Education and Curriculousness Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on secondary education and education, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 132, against – one, the abstentioned, was not voted by eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Five MPs of the MP group have submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 141 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, with a correction, five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Dubravko Bojic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment, with a correction, was filed by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was filed by five MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Vjerica Radet, five MPs of the parliamentary group, have submitted enough of the seven MPs of the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Aleksandra Belačić and Vjerica Rade together submitted the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs were submitted to the 7th amendment by the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the MP group submitted to the 9th amendment. That's enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs were submitted to the 9th amendment by the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to the 10th amendment enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Dubravko Bojic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was filed by five MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by five MPs from the MP group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Seven MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Milisavljevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Seven MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapcevic and Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted by five MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Seven MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 15th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ruzica Nikolic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the assembly had submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic and Dejan Šulkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the MP group had submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by the People's MPs Verica Radet and Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Sreto Peric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic together submitted the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Seven MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the MP group had submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandar Seselj and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to the 19th amendment enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Seven MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club and seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 22nd Amendment was submitted by five MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 23rd amendment was filed by five MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 23rd amendment, with a correction, was filed by seven MPs from the Dveri group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the parliamentary group have submitted to Article 24 of the amendment enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic and seven MPs of the DS. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the DJB group submitted to Article 25 of the amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the DJB group submitted to the 26th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 26th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the DJB group submitted to the 27th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 28 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri Group and five MPs from the DJB group submitted. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 29th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Petar Jojic and Vjerica Radeta. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the DJB group submitted to the 29th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 29th Amendment were submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. I am putting the amendments to vote. I am closing the vote: for – one, against – no one with abstentions – there is. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 30 of the amendment, in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri Group and five MPs from the DJB group submitted. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Dejan Sulkic. I am putting the amendments to vote. I am closing the vote: for – one, against – no one with abstentions – there is. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the DJB group submitted to the 31st amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Seselj and Vjerica Radet. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the DJB group submitted to Article 32 of the amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the DJB group submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the DJB group submitted to the 34th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandra Belačić and Zoran Krasic. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 34th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic submitted together to the 34th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Seven MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 34th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the DJB group submitted to the 35th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the DJB group submitted to the 36th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 36th Amendment was submitted by five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 36th amendment. I am putting the amendments to vote. I am closing the vote: for – one, against – no one with abstentions – there is. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Dubravko Bojic and Zoran Krasic. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the DJB group submitted to Article 37 of the amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the DJB group submitted to the 38th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Nikola Savic and Zoran Krasic. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the amendment of the 38th. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the DJB group submitted to the 39th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the DJB group submitted to the 40th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the DJB group submitted to the 41st amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the DJB group submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the DJB group submitted to Article 43 of the amendment. I put the amendments to the vote. I conclude the vote: no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the MP group had submitted to the 44th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was filed by five MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 45th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the MP group had submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 47 of the amendment in the same text, five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club and seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 47th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 49th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 49th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. To the 51st Amendment in the same text, seven MPs from the Dveri group and five MPs from the MP group submitted enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 52nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 53rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 54th Amendment was filed by five MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 55th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 55th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 56th Amendment was filed by five MPs from the MP group enough. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – one, with abstention – there are none, of the 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on secondary education and education. Since we now need to decide on proposals for a law on the approval of international contracts (points 5, 6 and 7 of the agenda), I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. With that in mind, we're going to make a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A project of inclusive pre-school education and education) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, v – one, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill for the majority of all MPs. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Convention on Nuclear Safety, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill for the majority of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Joint Convention on the Security of Fuel Management and on the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management, in general. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 136, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill for the majority of all MPs. Since we are now moving to a decision on the proposals for elections and resolutions, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(2), point 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of its electoral authority, holds most of the votes of all the MPs. With that in mind, we're going to make a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, which was tabled by the president of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, in general. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 136, against – no one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by most of all the MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association, which was tabled by the president of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic, in general. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for – 136, against – no one. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, in general. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – 134, against – no one. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I put to the vote the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, no one with abstentions is available. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to supplement the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the MP group Enough, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – there is no one with abstentions. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 24 October 2017, at 16 hours and 40 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 27, 93, 104 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 24 October 2017, at 17 hours and 6 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 92(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 24 October 2017, at 17 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 27 and 32. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Radoslav Milojičić, at a session on 24 October 2017, at 17 hours and 36 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 24 October 2017, at 16 hours and 23 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 24 October 2017, at 18 hours and 32 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 24 October 2017, at 18 hours and 34 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 88. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Maja Gojkovic, at a session on 24 October 2017, at 18 hours and 38 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 88. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratović, at a session on 25 October 2017, at 11 o'clock and 40 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Balša Bozovic, at a session on 25 October 2017, at 11 o'clock and 45 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 25 October 2017, at 15 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 25 October 2017, at 17 hours and 32 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Balša Bozovic, at a session on 25 October 2017, at 18 hours and 15 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 107, 108 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 26 October 2017, at 13 hours and 5 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 106 and 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 26 October 2017, at 1400 hours, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Balša Bozovic, at a session on 26 October 2017, at 14 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided by majority that the above-mentioned members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Maja Vidinović, at a session on 26 October 2017, at 14 hours and 30 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 27(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Balša Bozovic, at a session on 31 October 2017, at 12 hours and one minute, pointed to a violation of members 157 and 158. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 31 October 2017, at 12 hours and seven minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, at a session on 31 October 2017, at 13 hours and 14 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 31 October 2017, at 13 hours and 52 minutes, pointed to the violation of Article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 31 October 2017, at 15 hours and five minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 101. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marijan Rističević, at a session on 31 October 2017, at 15 hours and 12 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Branka Stamenković, at a session on 31 October 2017, at 15 hours and 29 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103(7). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Branka Stamenković, at a session on 1 November 2017, at 11 o'clock and 13 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103, paragraph 8. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Branka Stamenkovic, at a session on 1 November 2017, at 12 hours and 34 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic, at a session on 1 November 2017, at 12 hours and 37 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 1 November 2017, at 13 hours and 25 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 1 November 2017, at 13 hours and 45 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 27, 103 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 1 November 2017, at 13 hours and 54 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 103 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on 2 November 2017, at 12 hours and 22 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, at a session on 2 November 2017, at 13 hours and 31 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 2 November 2017, at 16 hours and 43 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic, at a session on 2 November 2017, at 16 hours and 45 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Tatjana Macura, at a session on 3 November 2017, at 12 hours and 55 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 106(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017.
