ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17109	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fifth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that there are 136 MPs present. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. The invitation applies to the esteemed Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic and Karic. I can't start a session without you. Please insert the card. Something's wrong with the system. The system says there's no one in the O.R. Please insert the cards again and ask the IT sector to check what it's about. As far as I can tell, there's an unexpected number of us. Veroljub Arsic can't put his card in, and he can't get a word in. So, I'm asking the service to determine what this is about. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17110	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President, I doubt the correctness of the electronic system, and I would ask you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to ask the professional service to count the number of Members of Parliament present.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17111	I ask the service to count the number of MPs present and the hall and to approach them immediately. I'm asking those who don't want to be counted, to leave the O.R. Otherwise they'll all have to be counted, because it doesn't work electronic system. No one can claim he's not here if he's here. I'm asking services to respond immediately. So, count right now, all MPs present in the O.R., you heard the MPs, as we approach the manual count. Thank you. 136 MPs present in the O.R. have been counted. I declare that we have conditions for further work. Dear Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I would like to inform you that none of the MPs have reported not to be present today. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure, I shall inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure, exclusively for Friday, therefore, beyond those laid down in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the proposed agenda. You were presented the minutes of the third session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. We move to a decision-making session and I am voting on the minutes of the 3rd session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017, held on 11 May and 15 May 2017. Here you go. I'm putting the minutes to the vote from this session. (Inemnja Sarovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I certainly can't stop when someone thinks they can yell at me, just slowly. (Nemnja Sarovic: How could Veroljub Arsic get the word? ) Mr Arsic is not running the session right now, but Maja Gojkovic. I hereby conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for – 127 MPs. I agree that the Assembly adopted the minutes of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Is Nemanja Sarovic still answering for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17112	Ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure have been injured and a large number of Rules of Procedure have been injured, and this is another proof that you do not want, not even according to this far-reaching Rules of Procedure, to work and not even that minimum minimum that remains behind the DS to respect. First of all, you've violated Article 86, which speaks of an appointment session. You, Mrs. Gojkovic, provided us with a meeting with a large number of points, and then after that you delivered a new paper, a memo, to call it, where you say that, in accordance with Article 86, you withdraw the previous call. That's not possible. Under the Rules of Procedure, it is not possible. The 86th article gives you one possibility, which is that the President of the National Assembly can postpone the hour, that is, the day of the meeting of the National Assembly, which is timely in informing the MPs. You don't have the opportunity to withdraw, as you said. Where is the possibility of withdrawing a session, or withdrawing a call in the Rules of Procedure? Nowhere. What is handed over in the meantime 68 points for supplementing the agenda and what would have lasted, so you consider it an abuse, but it is the same abuse that you put up with in a minute to ten so that the MPs of the opposition, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, can submit proposals for enlargement and supplementing the agenda and you say – no one could register all those 68 in the same second, but how is it possible that at 15.30 hours, you and Mr Martinovic, you teach a call for a new session, and Martinovic submits a request for the unification of all the points of the debate? It is clear that you are serving the same abuses that you are serving and those you are attacking.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17113	Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you for your findings. There was little here about article 88. I have to inform you, you've probably read, that this is a whole new session. The first session isn't even scheduled. Here on the table, who's interested, can see what was done yesterday in the service. So, the session, the assembly is nowhere to be seduced, there's no time, there's nothing. There are only 68 additions of the agenda to a session that has not been convened. You can make an insight. Thank you. We'll vote if you insist. We're not leading the controversy, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're going to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure anyway. Thank you. (Zoran Zivkovic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17114	I'll be in touch with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17115	The word has an MP, Ciric. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17116	I've reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17117	You can't respond to the Rules of Procedure for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you, have a seat. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17118	You have violated Article 154 which states that the bill, drawn up in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, can be included in the agenda of the National Assembly session within no less than 15 days of the date of its submission. You're in a minute to ten... I'm really ashamed to have to talk about this like this. In a minute to ten, you scheduled a session of the Assembly where you were surprised that our associates had submitted proposals to the MPs of the Democratic Party at 9:59 p.m., so within the legal deadline, the laws were prepared and 15 days before this meeting. Then, unprepared to hear the bill's proposals and what is needed to hear, and I think that these are all important things for all citizens of Serbia, you postponed this session, and it is right that Mr. Sarovic that you just postponed the session, did not schedule a new one, but on the same day with the same agenda, with the same agenda points you postponed the time of the session. Nevertheless, our proposals are valid because they were handed over before the beginning, so 15.30 hours, and I think you need to put the possibility to all the MPs who submitted these proposals. So this is really how we bring down the institution of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. I think it is necessary that you give this opportunity, if you want it and if you think it will contribute to the dialogue in this Assembly, that it will contribute to the quality of all legal solutions, allow the debate and allow what we have proposed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because this way of conducting the session of the Assembly is just another argument for our initiative, which is your shift from the seat of the President of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17119	Absolutely. We'll talk in accordance with democratic procedures. When you have 126 votes, I'm ready to talk about it right now. I'll have someone else run the session, give you my word, because through the insult you sent me today, I won't cross over. So whenever you answer, someone else will. I don't want to talk to you. Article 154 speaks, honourable MP Ćirić, I would like to ask you for some attention: “The bill, prepared in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, can be included in the agenda of the session within no less than 15 days of its submission. ” On the agenda, the draft laws were submitted on 25 October 2016, 15 November 2016, 11 April 2017, 24 February 2017, 24 April 2017, 11 April 2017 and so on, until 20 March 2017. I think it's been 15 days on my calendar. Today is May 26, 2017. Yesterday was Tito's birthday and African day. So the member you called is impossible. As for your additions, I'm sorry, the forgeries have been established. You've handed over the extras to a session that wasn't scheduled. What you have to discuss, discuss with those who helped you with those reports. So here in front of me, I ask the public who is interested, 250 MPs to show that only the council couldn't get their number yesterday, the delinquency was not the time when it was handed over, because it was rushing to surrender and quickly write that they had all submitted at 9:59, 68 additions to a session that was never scheduled. Thank you. If you think it has not been 15 days since the law was passed, parliament will also plead because we voted and when Bozovic said the country is not round. So Parliament can do anything. Will you, colleague, be kind enough to listen to the violation of the Rules of Procedure from the MPs on the left who are trying to address me? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17120	Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17121	Mr. Mlicevic, a member of 27 has been injured. Rules of Procedure and Rule 88 has been injured. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the scene: Milicevic, I stand here for half an hour.) Do you see this? First, I have one question for you, but please don't let the time run out until you calm down the ruling majority. I can't really talk with this screaming, and I think it's a minimum of decency, something to be expected in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17122	Here you go, Mr. Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17123	If time can start from the beginning?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17124	You have two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17125	So the first question is, Mr. Milicevic, for you. If, according to Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic, the session was not even scheduled for this morning at 10.00, then what does it mean and how do we understand the act she signed under number 06-296-17, which reads as follows: Article 86. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, may I inform you that I am withdrawing a call for the Fifth Session of the First Regular Session, scheduled for Friday 26 May, starting at 10.00 hours? Maja Gojkovic, president of the assembly, claims she was scheduled and claims not to have been scheduled a minute ago. What does that look like? So it's quite clear that you do whatever you want. How could he have been sent to the MPs if it wasn't scheduled? In what way? Another major abuse. A short time ago, Veroljub Arsic sought, in accordance with article 88, or expressed doubts about the existence of a quorum established by an electronic system. The Rules of Procedure order that the President of the National Assembly be made aware of the presence of MPs. We didn't get that. Where's the copy? He's gone. Only Maja Gojkovic said – count the service. He doesn't have that right. So you were obliged first to let us know who was present by the MPs, and then in accordance with the next position, the President of the Assembly was obliged to inform the MPs that the electronic voting system was not in office. We didn't get that notice. Without such notice, it's not possible to count anyone here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17126	Thank you. Mr. Sarovic, you got later, I couldn't get back from the beginning of time, but you got another 30 seconds. You will be answered by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I just want to ask you if you want to make a statement in the Parliament's voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17127	Thank you for turning on my microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17128	Just say do you want to make a statement to the Assembly?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17129	You have to give me an explanation first, and then I plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17130	Mr. Sarovic, you'll get the answer. I'll understand that he wants you to make the People's Assembly known in the voting day. You'll get an explanation. You will be given an explanation from the President of the National Assembly, given that the questions are directly... The word is made by MP Zoran Zivkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17131	Thank you. Items 104 and 107. (The People's MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party detest. ) By their behaviour, described by my predecessors, by their appointment of a phantom, and by cancelling the session, by their untrue testimony of the counterfeits, Mrs Gojkovic hurt the dignity of this assembly. (The People's MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party detest. ) I ask you if you can calm down your distinguished colleagues and colleagues, or whatever is across the street, because it is your obligation. So, there's a lie that the session isn't scheduled, and we've been called in. There's another lie, that session is cancelled. How can she be cancelled if they say she's not scheduled? There's a lie again, that the same session is scheduled again, which is impossible. Therefore, I ask that a general disrespect for Parliament's dignity, one lack of understanding of metaphors, one totally bestial attitude of the congregation's majority towards us, and it would be best if Mrs. President resigns, to take his friends and comrades where they could get a reward by their behavior. That's not it. Serbia's assembly is the place where laws are passed, where procedures are respected, where Serbia is best kept. Arlauking has also been abolished in African parliaments, and that's very good. I hope that we will soon come to the fact that the Serbian Parliament has such a beautiful custom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17132	Thank you, Mr. Zivkovic. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Zoran Zivkovic: Yes. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17133	Thank you to the MPs for the support they've given to all the women involved in politics. Thank you very much. The word is made by MP Marija Obradovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17134	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107. It's about the dignity of the congregation. Indeed, during the day, or probably at the moment, a statement of the Women's Parliamentary Network, with the position of Serbian Parliament MPs, where we are asking that the most strongly not be condemned, indeed, by the strictest sanctions under the Rules of Procedure of the Serbian Parliament, the conduct of MP Zoran Zivkovic, the verbal attacks on Parliament's concrete president Maja Gojkovic. But Maja Gojkovic is just a symbol, the name and the name of every woman who is in the Serbian Parliament, I especially mean MPs. It should not have been allowed for Zoran Zivkovic to speak one word here today. The way he treated women, it hasn't happened yet. It was suggested that it could be seen in the background of addressing women, but that they specifically said the word in the Serbian Parliament's hall, that no one was responding, that we had no reaction from the media and the public to it. If you have a problem with the name Maja Gojkovic, do you mind the name of the Serbian Parliament's institution? That's an insult to that position, too. Look at the multiletter insults that have happened, and no one will react. That's very interesting to people. They're just playing, they want us to make this real, like some people started doing this. This is the day we need to get up and say that by insulting women, especially women in parliament, Parliament's dignity is the second basis we'll talk about, it has to stop. I do not allow and invite colleagues to join me, regardless of which political party they belong, to continue working in parliament until we decide on the sanctioning of Zoran Zivkovic. It's a shame he dared speak here in front of all of us when he called us prostitutes. I want backup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17135	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17136	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I apologize to the ladies on behalf of the farmers. My fellow farmer is not a clean farmer. It's these villagers from the city. I'm advocating Article 103 of the 7th and 8. It's an abuse of the violation of the Rules of Procedure by my fellow farmer. As someone who has condemned his statement, regardless of what he thinks of himself as the most beautiful and wisest and that everyone else for him is the elite below him, under his boss, who is named, I think, Sasa Jankovic. In the last two, three days we've had two excesses who have been towards the ladies and as someone who will always protect them, as someone who lives in the country, as someone who is aware of what all women mean for a household, I have also joined the condemnation of that procedure, but I ask you to have an understanding of my colleague. I'd like him to apologize and get over this problem. As for his violation of the Rules of Procedure, I think you should apply some sanctions, since you have been too kind to him, as provided for by Articles 108 and 109. He condemned the overfly from the party to the party, and here, I will condemn it, but if he wants to condemn it, he just needs to take a look at his left side and everything about the flyover will be clear to him. Sometimes people, when they want to insult, out of hatred when they want to insult him and his boss, Sasa Jankovic, when they say something, wanting to insult someone else, actually insult themselves. And that applies to my fellow farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17137	You want us to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17138	I'm advertising a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly. In fact, he defines clearly that order at the assembly session is being controlled by the president of the assembly. We just attended something that rarely happens. When the president is absent, then the Vice-President is chairing the Assembly, and we are eyewitnesses that the president has been sitting here, and the Vice-President has led the Assembly, and if he already wants to change Maja Gojkovic completely, at least to take measures against certain MPs who have no way, nor the desire to listen to a fellow who thinks otherwise, and you, Madam President of the Assembly, must keep an eye on you, must not make discrimination. You may like it or not like any MP's statement, but you must do the same, as you chair the assembly, to treat every MP. The second thing is whether or not you will be lagging through the means of public information, but when you are sitting in that place, you must treat all MPs equally. Did the MP, in this case Zivkovic, hurt you, hurt your colleagues, can be discussed on boards, can be discussed in this Assembly, but you must not act like that. (Maria Obradovic: What if he had hurt your daughter? As for your co-worker, who now appears from the bench, you are...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17139	Ambassador, you can't flaunt, you're throwing away any co-worker or co-worker.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17140	I didn't throw it away to anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17141	So you've come to me, breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17142	I just said it as a general place, because it doesn't exist at all with a name and a last name, she called us Serbian radicals apes. So...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17143	Ambassador, I'm going to exclude you, so I don't apply you, and I won't give you a warning because you continued to insult women who are involved in politics. Article 27 speaks of the chairman leading the session and the chairman of the answer for order. Now you have heard for the first time the power of female solidarity in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. That's what you should be proud of, no matter what you personally think of women who deal with politics. I will never interrupt them, no matter what political option they belong to, when they solidify, finally after so many years, with women who deal in politics. I expected other colleagues in this House to do the same. And I will really refrain from reading the fantastic statement of the MPs, who today's MPs are boycotting, what he said about women who are involved in politics. (Zoran Zivkovic: Read it. No, we'll keep working. I will allow another breach of the Rules of Procedure, then I will take a break so that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I can continue my work and allow Members to work today. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17144	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, I call for a violation of Article 105, or misread words, and I hold for the public's sake to point out something very important, which is that it is a pure lie that any counterfeiting has occurred, as has been said here. None of us MPs can fake anything. The key is obviously in the office and in the service, that is to say, in an attempt at the maneuver that has taken your hand at this time and this day, which is that the MPs of the opposition do not allow their time to be on the agenda. I know it's an extremely difficult time for all of you from four to five hours, how long it takes every beginning of each session, when the agenda is determined, and when we have almost 70 proposals to change and supplement the agenda. It's the only time that opposition MPs can speak in peace, uninterrupted in their three minutes under the bill, without the right to replicate anyone else, without violating the Rules of Procedure, which means that the only valuable time when we can speak uninterruptedly is just to determine the agenda. Now you've found a maneuver to deny it. This is the essence of this gymnastics with time, or so on. By postponing the session from 10.00 hours to 15.30 hours. I want the public to be aware of this and that even the last time opportunity that the MPs of the opposition, I repeat, have in front of everyone else who is trying to make noise and full and gender issues to end this important topic is to take that time away from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17145	Thank you for calling on article 105 and misusing the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Article 105 says that no one can speak at a session of the National Assembly before asking and receiving a word from the President, then that he can speak only from the parliamentary seat in the National Assembly's hall after receiving the words, with speakers in the hall, the President of the Republic, the President of the Government, the other persons, which you are not, after the approval of the National Assembly president and no one is allowed to approach the speaker until the President of the National Assembly approves it. Since you don't have a parliamentary group and I can't take two minutes away from you because of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, and I don't want to punish you for trying to justify what happened yesterday and today in parliament, it's up to you to decide whether you want to vote on the abuse of the Rules of Procedure's violation or not. So much for that. (Marinika Tepic: No. No, of course not. I urge you once again to come to see that 68 additional agendas have been submitted at 9:59 p.m., and here is your name of the honourable letter. Don't blame the officers of the office, because when you hear what they have to say, what kind of pressure they have to do, to seduce these extra points of the agenda, they may have forgotten to seduce the basic act, which is the calling. They may have forgotten, but we'll hear from them these days when you face a little bit of the fact that this latest lady with an extra agenda didn't happen by chance, because the Chief of Staff called to prepare the session and said, "President, I don't know what to do, after an hour and a half I have a new 68 points, and they're not in the electronic system by the time of 9.59 hours." Besides, anyone can determine that. Thank you. We're going back to work. I accept that you said you wanted to discuss it. In the assembly of this session, which has been delivered to you... (Goran Ciric: Rules of Procedure. ) It has to be done directly, and today nothing has been done directly by all of what you have said. I don't want to take your time, so don't try. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on a proposal to put the act on the agenda following an urgent procedure and a proposal for a merger of discussions. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic proposed that, by emergency procedure, be put on the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the education of the polling committee to determine the situation in the media after the privatisation process. Since the motion is an emergency procedure, I'll put it to the vote right away. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Gojković, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2), Articles 170 and 192. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint single search be carried out on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations on the provision of resources to a multidimensional integrated mission of the Act of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of the Balkan Military Forces; Proposal for a Law on the approval of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the Government of the Republic of Montenegro, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the Law of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the Charter of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Belarus of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Serbia on the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of the Republic of the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic to the Republic of I'm putting this motion to the vote. (I Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure, I answered. He can't do it in the middle of a vote, you know. (I Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure, I answered. ) Just a little patience, young fellow, just a little patience to finish one process shop. Finalising vote: for – 132. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I'm putting on a vote on the agenda proposal in general. (I Nemanja Sarovic: According to the Rules of Procedure, I answered. I heard you, just to finish the voting shop. I'm absolutely aware of what you want to do, just wait a few seconds to finish what I started. Nemanja Sarovic: This is not exactly what I want. I know you don't want this, just slowly, I've been aware of it since yesterday, just take it easy. Nemanja Sarovic: What are you yelling at? ) It is not “screaming, ” but“ screaming, ” if someone has raised his voice. I conclude the vote: for – 130, against – four abstentions – none, no vote – 26. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017, in general. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. The announcement of the invitations to the session, as you can see, has given us the authority to invite all ministers from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, along with their associates to attend today's session. Just to see, you wanted an extension of the debate? I'll give you my word. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. Take it easy, we'll do everything in the Rules of Procedure. According to Article 192, Article 3(3) shall apply. In 193 and 170, and in accordance with Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search of points one through 21. Before I give the proposing representatives, I give my word to MP Nemanja Sarovic, to say what I hurt the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17146	Madam President of Parliament, unfortunately, you are too late to give me your word in the Rules of Procedure right now, because my objection was just about that part of the agenda, and I think it would be very important and important that you gave me your word in accordance with the Rules of Procedure when I asked for it. For the record, the truth works, I'll tell you now. You have violated, in addition to Article 27, you have violated Article 153, which says that if the bill is not prepared in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly will ask the Proposer to comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, which will specify exactly what this non-compliance is. All the practical proposals for today's agenda are according to the urgent procedure and you, Mrs Gojkovic, were just a moment ago, corresponding representatives of the opposition, told the opposition that these proposals in the assembly procedure... Mrs. Gojkovic, if you can listen to me, you won't be able to give me an explanation again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17147	I know, but I haven't received any requests for non-compliance, so I'm consulting.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17148	How will you respond to the remarks I make to the Rules of Procedure? You haven't listened to me for one second, and I've been talking for a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17149	Ambassador, are you going to evaluate my physical ability to see or hear or hear the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17150	You didn't listen to me, you talked to me, and it's completely obvious, everyone saw it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17151	I thank you very much, but for listening and not listening, there is absolutely nothing in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17152	I didn't get an answer last time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17153	Yes, yes, I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17154	Give me an answer to the question I asked.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17155	You have called on Article 153 that the draft law is not prepared in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, and the President of the National Assembly may request, or will ask the Proposer to comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, which will specify precisely what this non-compliance is, provided that there are discrepancies I would request.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17156	I've pointed out specifically.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17157	Thank you very much, you pointed that out, and I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17158	According to the Rules of Procedure, again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17159	We're going to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and now you're sitting down so you won't be sanctioned, because you're abused by the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17160	I don't abuse anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17161	The word is proposed by Zoran Djordjevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there are four draft laws on the validation of international agreements, namely two bilateral agreements with the Government of the Republic of Belarus on military-technical co-operation and the Government of the Slovak Republic on defence co-operation, a multilateral agreement on the formation of Balkan military medical forces and a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations on the provision of contributions to the resources of a multidimensional integrated mission of the United Nations for Stabilisation in the Central African Republic (MINUSCA). The bilateral agreement with the Government of the Republic of Belarus and the Government of the Slovak Republic were signed in Bratislava on 5 December 2016 and in Minsk on 26 January 2017. Cooperation in defence with the Slovak Republic can be seen as good, with the possibility of further intensifying and improving, and the achievement of the forms of co-operation mentioned, it is necessary to conclude a general defence co-operation agreement, which would legally regulate those issues. Military-technical co-operation with the Republic of Belarus is also closer to this agreement with the possibility of further development and improvement, and in order to achieve concrete forms of military-technical co-operation, it is also necessary to conclude a military-technical co-operation contract, which sets out those issues. The entry into force of those agreements also establishes a legal basis for the direct co-operation of defence ministries, as well as on the other hand, the form of co-operation in the area of defence for which the parties agreed are interested, which also strengthens and extends the former co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with the Republic of Belarus and the Slovak Republic. In addition to bilateral co-operation, the importance and influence of the Republic of Serbia in this part is greatly contributed, but in all of Europe it is of great importance and the participation of our country in regional and international organisations. Thus, the Republic of Serbia is, beside Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Montenegro and Slovenia, the founder of the Balkan military force. The idea of forming these forces begins to be operationalised in April 2011 when a group for the assessment of Balkan military forces was formed. The Republic of Serbia has chaired this group since 2013, and the concept of the Balkan military force has been developed during that period. As a guideline for building these forces, the purpose of the Balkan military force is to provide sustainable medical support to levels two in response operations and in crisis situations, as well as to quickly respond to a wide range of situations, removing the consequences of natural disasters in the region. During the Second Regional Military Medical Conference, held in September 2013 in Belgrade, a decision was made to station a permanent organisation of the Balkan Military Force as a peacetime body responsible for organising and planning training activities in Skopje, as well as peaceful and unpredictable Balkan Military Forces operations. Noting that the military medical concepts of the Republic of Serbia are a comparative advantage of the Republic of Serbia compared to other countries in the Western Balkans region. The positive effect is also the fact that the Republic of Serbia recognises the importance of regional integration and sharing of resources, as well as that it is ready to play a leading role in the first rotation. It also contributes to the development of bilateral relations with construction, co-operation and trust in the Western Balkans region, as well as the improvement of its own defence capacities and capabilities for active participation in co-operation processes with other countries and international relations entities in the construction of national, regional and global security. In this regard, one of the procedures that preceded the establishment of the Balkan Military Forces and the launch of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the Government of Montenegro, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of the Balkan Military Forces, signed in Belgrade on 14 January 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs do not diminish the importance of bilateral and regional co-operation I would also like to highlight the importance and benefits of the Republic of Serbia through participation in multinational operations. In fact, participation in multinational operations is one of the three missions of the Serbian Army and is based on established security and defence needs and interests. Using Serbia's military in multinational operations, the Republic of Serbia ranks in the ranks of countries actively involved in establishing and preserving peace and stability in the world. This also makes a significant contribution to building an equal partnership relationship with the UN Member States. Reiterating the readiness that members of the Serbian Army are engaged in multinational operations, the Republic of Serbia strengthens its own security, contributes to world peace and stability, as well as to resolving all disputed issues peacefully. Decisions on the use, participation and deployment of members of the Serbian Army in UN peacekeeping operations in the Central African Republic and the EU military operation in the Central African Republic began in 2014 the participation of the Republic of Serbia in missions in the Central African Republic and the involvement of the defence ministry and the Serbian Army capacity. A Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the UN, signed on 2 November 2015, establishes administrative, logistic and financial conditions governing the contribution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the form of personnel and services provided to support the multidimensional and integrated mission "Minuska", as well as the UN Peace Operations Department's obligation to the Republic of Serbia. The purpose of this Memorandum of Understanding is to define mutual obligations and rights in the field of administration, logistics and finance, which regulates the contribution in terms of staff and services provided by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in support of a multidimensional and integrated mission in the Central African Republic. The provisional application of the memorandum in question has been important for the Republic of Serbia since its entry into force and is in line with the positive regulations of the Republic of Serbia, and has been necessary for the reasons of the initial participation of members of the Serbian Army in this mission, as well as the savings of the costs incurred in this respect. The Republic of Serbia is also exercising the right to receive a UN fee on behalf of the engagement of the people in the area of Peace Operation "Minuska". By confirming the proposed memorandum, the Republic of Serbia is officially becoming a force distributor in the Minuska Peace Operation and an equal partner with other states, the force distributors. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I propose that the National Assembly confirm the proposed laws confirming four international agreements, i.e. to vote a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on military and technical co-operation, a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Slovak Republic on Co-operation in the area of defence, as well as a law confirming the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Macedonia, the Government of Montenegro, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of the Balkan Military Forces, as well as a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the UN on providing contributions to the resources of the multi-dimensional integrated UN Stabilisation mission in the Central African Republic of Myanmar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17163	The word has a minister named Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17164	Thank you very much. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the protection of war graves and military memorials. The government of the Republic of Serbia is paying great attention to the preservation of our historical heritage, the culture of memory. Our people have always been on the right side of history, and the unimaginable sacrifices we have endured throughout our history deserve attention as well as memory. In 40 countries of the world, the bones of our countrymen have been distributed, in 40 countries of the world there are a total of 676 Serbian memorials. So far, we have signed agreements with the Slovak and Russian Federation on the preservation of our memorials. I believe we will have your support and will sign with the Czech Republic as well. We don't have the other 37 countries. For the future, I want to tell you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will work, we have already started talks with most countries, to provide with each of these countries a legal opportunity to guard the graves of our ancestors, as we believe they too want to guard their own. On the territory of the Czech Republic is located next to other truly numerous monuments to our loss, there is also a famous skeleton in the place of Jindrihovica, where 7,200 of our countrymen, our interns, our prisoners. They left their bones there. We try to preserve the memory of them, try to preserve a dignified memory of them, but we need this law in order to have a legitimate, legal opportunity to pay for the maintenance of the cemetery, and if we are paying the good part now, even though we are always paying the guardian, even though we are always there to cover whatever it takes to preserve the memory of our glorious history, but such a legal basis is necessary in order to be able in a decent and legal manner to apply ourselves to our monumental heritage. More than that, more than money, more than anything we overcome in a direct conversation with representatives of other countries is our message that Serbs remember their history and wherever we are, we will be there with pride, with sadness, with piety to mark the place of our ancestors' suffering. We have no reason to be ashamed of our history, we have no reason to be ashamed of ourselves. Our ancestors didn't embarrass us anywhere, and that's why we can't embarrass them with our own behavior. Their death must not be disgraced by our lives. So please and ask for your support and for this law, as I will beg you and hope for another 37 laws, that in every country where we are located we may preserve the memory and memory of our ancestors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17165	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17166	Dear President, dear fellow Members of Parliament, it has been my honor today to explain a few proposals of different acts to you. One refers directly to the responsibilities that belong to the ministry I run, while several of the regulations concerning the Transport Sector are. I will try to bring you closer in the next few minutes to the reasons why I would invite you to support these legislative proposals in the voting day. As for the Paris Agreement, or the Law on Confirmation of the Paris Agreement, we talked here a few weeks ago about the Doh amendments and had, I can say, a broad consensus on the acceptance of all those provisions contained there. But all I have to say at the outset is that the whole story begins with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change 2001, and later it adds to the Kyoto Protocol and then to the Doh Amendment that we adopted on 21 April 2017. The whole cycle of these agreements closes with this Paris Agreement, which requires ratification by 55 signatories and at least 55% of global broadcasters. I can say that we as a country have very quickly joined this whole process and have defined our goals among the first ten countries, which is, to say the target that we have to put into our own legislation and in real life to implement in order to successfully combat these global gas emissions. Our country has determined that our goal is to target 9.8% by 2030 compared to the reference point, which is 1990. The above target is based on existing sectoral documents concerning energy strategies, transport areas, agriculture, waste. So a wide range of social life spheres involved and with which we intend to solve in this way one of the problems that the world is facing globally. First of all, through activities that will involve investment in improving energy efficiency, and here we have the most work to do, through the use of alternative sources in the area of warming of our cities, mostly through heat, through activities related to agriculture, through traffic activities. It may seem at first that some of the regulations, some of the agreements that I'm going to talk about later, in the area of traffic, have nothing to do with this Paris Agreement, but they also have connections. Today the world is multidisciplinary and we must observe it in different ways. Someone's going to ask a question -- what concrete benefits do we have from this, except that we have the cost at first sight when we talk about reducing the effects of the greenhouse gas? We have two very good sources of funding. One is the Global Environment Fund and the Green Climate Fund. You are all witnessing that climate change is taking place, that it has been happening to us in particular over the last few years, that we have a lot of problems, especially in agriculture, and that these two sources are at our disposal with funding opportunities that we can use to improve our agricultural production and thus reduce the negative effects that occur in our climate, i.e. that occur with drought, high temperatures or floods. One regulation, i.e. one national programme, which is very much related to all of this, is a few issues concerning public railway infrastructure, i.e. making a decision on the National Public Railway Infrastructure Programme. It is a simple matter, railways and water transport are in the most direct connection with the reduction of environmental pollution, which is the most common result of road traffic. This national public railway infrastructure programme for the period 2017-2021 stems from the Law on Railways and the national programme defines priorities in terms of construction, reconstruction, maintenance of public railway infrastructure. It defines all projects that need to improve public rail infrastructure, defined areas where project documentation has been made, worth 2.3 billion euros, the value of these projects. The projects concerning construction, reconstruction and maintenance of public railway infrastructure currently being developed are also defined. The priority in this national programme will certainly be to build public railway infrastructure within Corridor 10 and within the bar track. A lot of this has also been done in the previous period with the restructuring of the "Serb Railway", where we have received one entity that exclusively deals with infrastructure and two entities that are particularly engaged in the transport of goods and the other one that deals with the transport of passengers. The public works, we have about 3,739 kilometers of railroad. In 2016, 43 kilometers of railway was reconstructed, and in 2017 58.2 kilometers of rail was constructed. To prevent anyone from having any dilemma, the priority is these main directions that exist, but also the railways that are regional and local character are covered by this programme. It is very important to say that we need to enlarge public railway infrastructure with these projects, reconstructions, for one simple reason, because the future of transport is in railway transport. You are witnessing that these days and in China, as part of the "Strendway" Project, the most important story was building a railway line from Belgrade to Budapest. It is precisely within this national programme that the construction, or reconstruction of this railway, is contained so that goods from Budapest can be transported down to Piraeus. Because, don't forget, a few days ago with China, Greece signed an action plan to advance its infrastructure and how to put its port facilities fully into operation so that the goods could go towards Piraeus, through Belgrade, and up to Budapest, and so we have one fast transport that we haven't had so far, which will develop in the area from Novi Sad to Budapest at 200km per hour. As regards the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation on international road traffic and the agreement concerning air traffic related to the Republic of Croatia and Hong Kong, the administrative area, I think it should be said that again the emphasis on trade is to be thrown, especially in this section concerning trade with Russia. First of all, with regard to permits, to increase the contingent of permits made available to Serbia and Russia, for one simple reason why we have a sharp increase in trade from 2008 to 2016, especially in the area of agriculture. In 2008, we had eight and a half thousand tons of apples transported from Serbia to Russia, and today we have 160,000 tonnes. This is exactly the kind of thing that has made it possible to make changes to these agreements concerning road traffic, so that we can use more and more of the advantages of the Free Trade Agreement with the Russian Federation, that is, the entire Euro-Asian Union. It's the same thing with China. These are the things that will benefit us for the future and which we will be very likely to be, as these basic agreements have been established, more and more consummations, and our producers, that is, our transporters and all those who participate in this chain. As far as air traffic is concerned, we have two agreements. One concerns the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China on air traffic and the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the transfer of responsibilities for the provision of air traffic services. Security in the first place, the ability to communicate with remote areas such as this Special Administrative Area, these are the reasons why I call on you to support these draft agreements and amendments to the agreement in the voting day, as well as these previous laws available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17167	Thank you. The word is Hansel Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17168	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm really glad to see you, haven't seen you in a long time, and I'm sorry everyone isn't here, and I was hoping we'd get along today, but usually they're not here. There are nine draft laws on the agenda of today's session of the National Assembly from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's about international agreements. It's about three groups of laws. The first is the Law on Confirmation of the Status and Functions of the International Commission for Missing Persons. It is about the agreement we signed on 16 December 2015 on behalf of the Government, which has made the Republic of Serbia the founder of the International Commission for Missing Persons, with the possibility of participation in the decision-making process. This is a very important fact for us, because we will certainly be able to count on our presence and participation and support of the International Commission in resolving the fate of the missing persons of Serbian nationality, as well as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia of other nationalities. Here in this I don't see any reason to explain this law in more detail. The second group of laws are agreements between governments on the exercise of the paid activity of members of families of members of the diplomatic or consular representation. Agreements on the dealings of paid jobs with members of families of members of diplomatic or consular representations between the two countries on a reciprocal basis shall allow employment with the compensation of members of the family of the diplomatic and other staff of the state of appointment, in accordance with the internal rules of the state of reception. In recent decades, the conclusion of this type of bilateral contract has become a common international legal practice. Under this Agreement, family members, staff of diplomatic or consular representations of the state of appointments of persons employed in the State of reception fall under the social security regime of the State of reception, in relation to all issues concerning their employment in that State and are obliged to pay their income taxes in the State of reception. Agreements with 16 countries have been concluded so far: Canada, the United States, the Netherlands, Spain, Belgium, Argentina, Slovenia, Israel, Macedonia, Turkey, Portugal, Switzerland, Finland, Romania, France and Germany. With Albania, Italy, Brazil, Australia, Ukraine and Belarus, negotiations are under way to conclude this agreement, and these negotiations are under way. The third group of agreements refers to the visa regime. In the Republic of Serbia without a visa at the moment, the holders of ordinary passports from 73 countries can enter and reside, while the citizens of 121 countries still need a visa. Serbian citizens with ordinary passports can enter 65 countries without a visa, while they need a visa to enter 129 countries. The difference in data is that there is an asymmetric visa regime, or in some cases we have freed some countries from visas, and they do not. Respecting some of our interests, they are sometimes political, sometimes economical, sometimes touristic, but all in all, a number of countries have kept visas for Serbia, and we have lifted their visas. We brought for example. a decision to unilaterally lift visas for SR passports from Qatar, Kuwait, Oman, Bahrain. Also, we made a decision to lift visas with China and twice the number of visits by Chinese citizens to Serbia in the past few months, compared to the same period last year. We also lifted visas with Moldova. We recently made a decision to lift visas for Peru, because Peru has unilaterally earlier made a decision regarding us entering Serbian citizens in Peru without visas. Also, we've established a similar system with Malaysia. The visa waiver agreements for holders of diplomatic and official passports with Myanmar, Bangladesh, Nicaragua and South Africa are ready to be signed, while agreements with Guatemala, Thailand, Iraq, Kyrgyzian and Indonesia should be ratified at this session of the National Assembly. An initiative has also been launched to sign an agreement to lift visas for ordinary passports with Azerbaijan, Armenia and Georgia. Also, we launched an initiative for the Serbian government to decide to lift visas for the holders of all passports of the citizens of Trinidad and Tobago, and for the citizens of Ecuador and Panama for the holders of ordinary passports. With Bolivia, we are also working on an agreement for all types of passports, with Venezuela and India also working to lift visas. In the end, Serbia's international rating passport. According to Passport Index, our passport is located in 37th place, of a total of 199. It speaks of the value of passports, not only in technical terms and very rare cases of counterfeiting it, I don't think there has been a nearly any case of counterfeiting of the Serbian passport, but it is also politically important that a large number of countries do not require a visa if travelling with a Serbian passport. To make it simple again, our goal at the Foreign Ministry is to abolish visas with as many countries as possible and we will work on it in the next period. So, given that these laws, nine laws, are from three of these very important areas, but also that these are areas around which there are no major disputes, I call on all MPs to support in the day to vote on the adoption of these laws, or ratification of these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17169	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vanja Udovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17170	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Respected MPs, respected MPs, the Western Balkans region faces common heritage and progress in the region can only be achieved through joint action and promotion of the concept of tolerance, solidarity and co-operation. With the support of institutions in the region, NGOs and international partners, young people, as social development actors, are those who show by example and concrete activities that co-operation is necessary and that the same social, economic and cultural development of the region is the result. The benefits of all kinds of regional co-operation and integration of people, capital, goods and services are multiple, primarily for young people. Youth co-operation is the best investment in future relations in the region, more importantly, a one-way ticket away from any kind of conflict and dispute. The agreement to establish a regional office for youth co-operation was signed in Paris on 4 July 2016. The agreement is fully agreed and attached to the objectives of the Berlin Process and is based on a joint declaration from Vienna. The signing of this agreement created a formal basis for establishing a new institutional mechanism for the co-operation of young people in the Western Balkans. The reasons for setting up this office are, among other things: to support and create conditions for activities promoting reconciliation, mobility, diversity, democratic values, youth participation, active citizenship and intercultural education. The success of co-operation will also be measured on the basis of the quality of the projects delivered and the specific types of integration. Serbia, when it comes to the absorption of funds, has great potential. With success over the past few years, we have participated in various programmes for young people at regional and international level, and with these very clear results and indicators we believe that young people from Serbia will continue this successful trend of engagement on projects of the regional office for youth co-operation. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17171	Don't throw away the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17172	Under the agreement, the responsibilities and mandate of the regional youth co-operation office are defined, which provides that it will support projects for young people, which are targeted and contribute to the promotion and diversity and democratic values, strengthening sustainable regional co-operation between young people and establishing new relations between young people in the Western Balkans region, fostering reconciliation, intercultural learning, increasing regional mobility, improving the European spirit of co-operation, understanding and tolerance, building activity and participation of young people in the decision-making and social inclusion process and improving opportunities for youth employment. The regional office for youth co-operation is a platform for the co-operation and exchange of knowledge and experience of young people, an organisation for youth institutions from the Western Balkans region. This office will ensure active participation and will respond to the real needs of young people while giving them the opportunity to perfect and advance, and thus contribute to a comprehensive development of the Western Balkans region. The principles on which the work of the office will be based are: peace, trust based on mutual understanding, respect for human rights, solidarity and co-operation, not discrimination and tolerance, respect and acceptance of diversity as other democratic progress in modern society. All should be able to participate actively in such a society, applying an inclusive approach without making any difference to any basis or property by fostering the transparency of overall operation. The mission of the regional youth co-operation office is to support the regional exchange of young people and the exchange of their ideas, the creation of a basis for future co-operation in the region, based on the values of tolerance and respect for human rights and diversity, as well as commitment and inclusion and security. Deintenses regional co-operation between young people and institutions to ensure the implementation of joint programmes for young people, focusing on principles of democratic governance, sustainable economic development, education, innovation, as well as co-ordinated by the co-operation of young Western Balkan regions. When it comes to structure, with Tut, the Regional Office for Youth Cooperation is envisaged to consist of – board of directors, secretariats, advisory committees and working groups. The Management Board shall be the highest decision-making body and shall be composed of two representatives from each Contracting Party. One government official, who is directly responsible for youth policy and one youth representative. There are constant contacts and co-operation at the bilateral and regional level of the area and youth. However, with the Regional Office for Youth Cooperation, we are creating an opportunity for young people from Serbia through the implementation of a project with peers from the region to improve their personal and social skills, parts of experience, learn from each other and initiate certain activities. A sustainable mechanism for regional youth co-operation, based on mobility, exchange of ideas, peer learning and tolerance, is an irreplaceable tool for empowering young people in the economic, cultural and social segment. The Regional Office for Youth Cooperation is an honest effort and a useful tool for promoting culture, co-operation and synergies between the parties. This office is a functional instrument, which will cultivate enhanced dialogue, better understanding and sustainable development in the region. To the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I propose that it adopt a bill confirming the Agreement establishing a regional office for the co-operation of young people in the Western Balkans. I remain in place for a constructive debate and for all your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17173	Thank you very much. Do any of the committee's reporters want a word? Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17174	Dear Presidents, distinguished members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as we know, railway infrastructure is known for its public good in the general use and property of the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, why is it important to support this proposal for a national programme decision? Because this document respects the process of harmonising national legislation with EU rules, as well as international agreements and development plans in this area and related to road, water, air, transport in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2015 to 2020. It is also important that this programme be adopted, as a period from 2017 to 2021, new construction plans should be established, as well as the reconstruction of the maintenance of existing railway infrastructure. In addition, there is also a commitment to the provisions of Article 46. The law on Serbia's railways, the adoption of just like this, a national programme. It is also important to create a system for improving the safety, efficiency and reliability of our traffic through construction, reconstruction and modernisation of railway infrastructure. The level of service quality is improved, European standards are applied, the energy efficiency system is raised, environmental protection, the adjustment of railway infrastructure in line with environmental requirements and the overall contribution of railways to regional development. In addition, the national programme in the development strategy also has a function to provide guidelines, in the area of development and operation of rail traffic, on all lines of different categories in the Republic of Serbia. Also, guidelines for decision-making are given to state authorities and local self-government in order to improve the accessibility of rail transport, i.e. rail infrastructure. Finally, it has the capacity to provide and direct information to businesses and interested citizens, in addition to information on the state of rail traffic, in the country. What I can point out from the entire programme, as I come from Nis, on the basis of an assessment of the financial resources necessary for the implementation of this act, are the funds, planned for a total amount close to 63m euros for the implementation of work and professional supervision services for the modernisation and reconstruction of the Nis railway – Brestovac from the IPA Fund, with the participation of the Republic of Serbia near 16m euros. I also point out that the planned funds totalling 64m euros for the reconstruction of construction infrastructures, the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railways, Sicevo shares, the Sistevačka gorge, Stanicenje. Of course, because the Republic of Serbia has its share of four million and 100,000 euros. In part of the development component's development programme to build new capacities, infrastructure of special importance for the Republic of Serbia, in addition to the master lines on Corridor 10, Serbia is involved, among other things and regional railways, and, of course, the part concerning the south of Serbia, above all, the Nis - Red Cross, Zaječar - Prahovo port, where the development of railway infrastructure is under way, says they will be realised on regional railways, in the planned period with investment values. As for the Paris Agreement on the Republic of Serbia, what should be pointed out is that the Republic of Serbia started its climate change strategy in July 2016, and the end was planned for 2018. The strategy is being built through a project of EU funding and the basic reasons for the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Paris Agreement are, above all, meeting international obligations under the UN Framework Convention, on climate change, whose Republic of Serbia has been a member since 2001, then contributing to the process of harmonising national legislation and EU policies and ultimately obtaining the possibility of using international financing of a defined agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17175	Thank you. Do any of the other authorised representatives appear in this part of the debate? No, I don't. Thank you. We're moving on to the list. Nemanja Sarovic: Throws out of place. And you're going instead of the president? Okay, I understand he wants to talk. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17176	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, after indeed a lot of abuses, related to the appointment itself and the beginning of this session, are now forced to discuss some 20 and more points of the agenda. More specifically, on the 21st in a unique search, even though the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly prescribes certain conditions for this. Article 157 says - The National Assembly may decide to carry out a joint principled search on several draft laws, which are on the agenda of the same session, and are conditioned or are related to them. That's a condition. I also prayed to all ministers who were present, and we lack a few ministers who were designated for the government's representatives, so they will come later, not enough, they should be now, they had to be Zorana Mihajlovic here to explain their draft laws that the government had appointed her as a representative. Mr. Rasim Ljajic had to be there to explain. He had to be there to answer our remarks. You definitely don't keep the dignity of the National Assembly this way, and you as president would have to take care of...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17177	That is why there is the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Ivica Dacic, who knows all about these agreements. Be pleased with his presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17178	Can I have a word, keep talking?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17179	You can, but you can sign up. I have three witnesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17180	I'm registered, you want us to take pictures of the MP's unit all the time? If necessary, we can find a cell phone, a camera, so we can film our MPs all the time to see that I've been reported all along. So, as far as you're concerned, I don't accept her. It is my view, and this is the view of the SRS parliamentary group that if the ministers respect the National Assembly as the most representative body, to which the sovereignty of the citizens has been transferred, they must be here. They had to be here at 3:30 p.m. and they were waiting for us, not for us to come and discuss it, thinking about whether they would show up at some point or not, and on what grounds would they be discussing with us at the end of the line. Here you go, Mr. Nedimovic. (Branislav Nedimovic: Who wasn't there? ) There is no Zorana Mihajlović and there is no Rasim Ljajic. So I asked all present ministers to explain in accordance with Article 157. The Rules of Procedure, in which the legal proposals are linked, i.e. how the solutions made are interrelated. I'll do more for the public than by counting on good democratic practice, because unfortunately we don't have it here, name some. We have an example here. Some, the Law confirming the Agreement establishing the Balkan military-medical force, and I would like to hear the answer from any, in what way is this legal solution linked to the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of Serbia and the Czech Republic, on the protection of war graves and military memorials? In what way, what is the condition, in which? Here, Mr. Djordjevic laughs, and he's funny, and it's good that you're funny, Mr. Djordjevic, but I hope it won't be funny for the citizens of Serbia. You're not laughing at me, you're laughing at Serbian citizens. You make fun of them by breaking the Rules of Procedure and that's the point. You can have 126 votes here, and some of your coalitions are laughing, you can behave with pride, you can break the Rules of Procedure, but they were doing it and yellow, so where are they now? There isn't. As they did, they did, but you're all negative what they did and you've improved in a lot of things. Let's move on, let's see how the agreement on the protection of war graves and military memorials is related to the National Public Railway Infrastructure Programme. In what way? Is it possible that the Czech military cemetery in Kragujevac isn't planning a railroad there? How is this connected? This is contrary to common sense, it is contrary to democratic practice, and most importantly, it is contrary to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. (Vladimir Orlic: I have heard this for the first time.) Yes, it is, of course, the first time you've heard of it, but if you'd read any of the points of the agenda you voted for, you'd know it, but unfortunately, you don't. That's not what you're expected to do, that's why you have that bell, when it rings that you know you should vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17181	MP, you'll get a warning for a number of reasons. You insult the other Messengers, and two, you address them personally, instead of speaking to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17182	For what reason? I get it all the time. I answer to the pitches, and you didn't protect me, Mrs. Gojkovic. It's your first time to protect me, because no one in accordance with the Rules of Procedure can interfere...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17183	You're not talking about agreements, you're talking about the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17184	How can I not speak?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17185	I didn't put the Rules of Procedure on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17186	I asked the ministers how the legal solutions in these laws were conditioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17187	They are not obliged to answer you, they are responsible for the president of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17188	They're in debt. I, as a People's MP, don't understand it, and I ask the ministers who suggested it, to see what was conditioned, to see if they knew and do they understand? I'm sure you don't. Don't say I have no right to ask the minister. If I don't have the right to ask them, then they're surplus here, if they didn't come to us to give lectures, and I listened very carefully to the ministers. Be patient, too, slowly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17189	I am the eminence of patience in Serbia, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17190	If you can just wait for me to finish, then answer me, don't get in my word. And this is an intrusion, no matter what you're the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17191	It's hard to take an insult for 20 minutes, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17192	Mrs Gojkovic, you have no right and let it go, it is my right to explain it, it will be understood by the citizens of Serbia. I can explain within 20 minutes whatever I want why I don't have to vote for any of these proposals, however I want to, you'll understand, but wait until I get to the point. So how is the Agreement on the Protection of War Graves and Military Memorial related to the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement, amendments to the Agreement between the Government of Serbia and the Russian Federation on International Road Traffic and how? Is there anyone in the ruling coalition who can tell us? What does that have to do with each other? There's nothing. What are the members associated with these agreements, what is mutually conditional? There isn't. As you can't say about an emergency procedure, here's to getting back to it. We are the first proposal on today's agenda in a united debate, received on 25.10. by an emergency procedure last October and today we are discussing it. If it was an emergency, why didn't you put it in one of the previous sessions? You had that chance. You didn't care, because you don't care about democratic parliamentary practice and because you don't understand fundamental democracy. Let's move forward, in what way is the War Grave Protection Agreement and military memorials connected, listen now, to the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of Serbia and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, the People's Republic of China on air traffic? Air traffic in Hong Kong with graves and war memorials. How do we understand that? Here I confess, I don't understand. Whoever's capable of the minister, perhaps Mr. Vulin or Mr. Dacic, should spray and explain it. Let's move on, is that what the Public Railway Infrastructure has to do with the Status and Functions Agreement of the International Commission for Missing Persons? How is that mutually conditioned? Is there anyone here who can say anything? Furthermore, we have a bill on confirming the Agreement establishing a regional office for youth co-operation. Well, is the office of youth co-operation conditioned by war graves and military memorials? I don't think so. We have further, the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Germany on the performance of family members or members of the diplomatic consular office. How is this conditioned with war graves and military memorials? You have an agreement to confirm the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia, here, there will be Mr Dacic, he is in charge, so he will be expert in responding, on lifting visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports. The prize question, Mr. Dacic, is – how is this related to war graves and military memorials? You as a man who has been in many convocations in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who has been a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, should you say if this is an abuse and do you agree to it? Obviously, you agree, as soon as you sit here and watch what is done, as soon as representatives of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group vote for it. So you don't mind. There's more to it, so I don't read everything. For example, the agreement between the government of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus in the area of tourism. I suppose tourism is linked to war graves and military memorials in the Czech Republic or Czechs in Serbia? What you're doing is, I'd say, quite contrary to good parliamentary practice. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the Government of Montenegro, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of Balkan military forces. The first thing I would ask Mr. Djordjevic is – what will we work on? If war breaks out, God forbid, this will all be hostile and aggressive states. That's quite clear. Are we going with these countries maybe against Russia? Are we going against Germany? Are we going against any other country? In the event of a war, these are countries from our immediate environment. These are countries that have territorial claims towards the Republic of Serbia. You have open statements coming from Kosovo, from Macedonia, from the Republic of Albania, where you are openly threatened and promised to form some major Albania. On 23 May, the National Festival Ridran Qazimija was held in Bujanovac, which was liquidated in conflict with the armed forces of the Republic of Serbia, with the participation of the people of the municipality of Bujanovac, representatives of authorities from the Presevo municipality, cultural and artistic societies and representatives from the territory of so-called "Bujanovac". The Republic of Kosovo. They even brought the flags of an independent Kosovo and were stopped because of it and returned to the administrative crossing. You can check that on the official route. And what are you doing? You want to form some kind of joint military-medical force with them. This is contrary to the interests of the Republic of Serbia. I repeat, in the event of a war, these are all aggressor and hostile countries. Who could we face? Shall we go with Slovakia? Shall we go with China? With who? If Serbia is dragged into a war conflict, it will be a conflict with one of the surrounding states with which we are bordering. And I repeat, with one of the states that has territorial claims towards the Republic of Serbia and which do not hide that fact. What's in the Agreement? Again, a lot of negatives. The first member, in addition to definitions, you say the country will host this agreement and host the country's Permanent Organisation of Balkan Military Medical Forces will be Macedonia. And why Macedonia? Who decided that? That's what I'm asking you for two reasons. First of all, because Serbia is the centre of the region. So, geographically speaking, we're the center. Right? The second thing is, we're the biggest country. When you take that into account and take into account the part of the arguments given by you from the Ministry of Defence, which is to say that you should especially bear in mind that the military-medical capacities of the Republic of Serbia represent a comparative advantage of the Republic of Serbia compared to other countries of the Western region, so we are the leading country in that area, why would we allow another country, especially Macedonia, which is extremely unstable and which, as some leaders, state officials from the countries that are going to be members of this agreement to argue, it will be part of a great Albania, why would we in great Albania make any military-medical force? I think that's absurd. Another very important thing, and that's the financial question. In fact, where there's a center, that's where the money's going to be spent. The costs of Serbia will, of course, be higher if the centre is in another country. All of this was supposed to be a reason to negotiate at least further, but, I say, I don't think that this should be accepted at all costs, and why not, that's what Article 3 says. Article 3 speaks of what is the mission of the Balkan military-medical force and says the following – that it is determined to improve and facilitate the use of medical operational skills in the Western Balkans region. The purpose of the Balkan military-medical force is to provide medical support, etc. It is further said: "The goal is to enable countries to provide the necessary capabilities for international operations, to improve national facilities for providing medical services, as well as to achieve NATO's national objectives and objectives." The agreement aims to enable, in addition to others, the achievement of NATO forces' goals, the NATO Pact that bombed us, the NATO Pact that killed Serbian citizens, the NATO Pact which is the main promoter of Kosovo's independence and Metohija, a NATO pact that protects Cypriot criminals, a NATO pact that is hostile, people. Can either of you stand up and say that NATO is friendly to Serbia, not in 1999, but at this point? It's hostile because they're taking away Kosovo and the Metohija. The question is, what's next to be kidnapped? The NATO Pact is an enemy organization. Why should we create an alliance, create a military-medical force that will achieve the NATO Pact's goals. The NATO Pact tomorrow could be to destroy Russia. It could be to destroy any other country in the world, such as Serbia, such as Iraq, such as Libya, such as Syria. The question is who will be next in the NATO Pact or individual NATO pact countries. Why would Serbia participate in this? Why should we pursue criminal goals? Why would we create military medical forces to kill, or participate, the NATO pact soldiers who kill other people's children? Why would Serbia do that? This isn't our interest. Is there anyone to answer from the minister? There isn't. Then he says -- Balkan military-medical forces are available for possible activation at the request of one or more parties or at the request of an international organisation. Which international organization is appropriate? Imagine, at the request of an appropriate international organization? Why didn't you define which one it was? It is in the previous article – NATO Pact. Why didn't you mention the collective security agreement? Let's achieve their goals. Why should we pursue the NATO Pact's objectives and who will decide at the appropriate time what call is appropriate, or what military organisation is appropriate? He says, at the request of any other country. You know the SRS is against military neutrality. Military neutrality did not respond to the challenges we faced as a country and a people. We have been neutral since 1945, so they destroyed the former SFRY, so they bombed Republika Srpska, so they occupied the Republika Srpska Krajina.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17193	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17194	What do you say, 18 minutes and 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17195	Yeah, but you don't count the minutes and a half you were talking about when I interrupted you and then you got exactly 18.28.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17196	But refuse what you've been saying to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17197	Don't argue with me like Kalimera all the time, so I don't hate you. You think I can hold out a little longer? Here you go. Here, but they'll ask for other MPs then a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17198	If it means that much to you 30 seconds, here, I give you a gift of interest, for the benefit of the state, if you're going to solve a problem, I give up that 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17199	Here, for the good of the state, say something for a few more seconds. Thank you for defending the state. The word has Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17200	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Presidency, gentlemen of the Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an authorised representative of the SVM-PD parliamentary group, I will talk about two documents on the agenda, first of all on the proposal for a decision on the National Public Railway Infrastructure Programme for the period 2017 to 2021. The adoption of this National Public Railway Infrastructure Programme is exceptional and does not actually comply with EU rules, but concrete alignment with the European Parliament and Council's directive on the establishment of a single European railway space. What makes the adoption of the National Public Railway Infrastructure Programme extremely significant for the period 2017 to 2021? Because this document is basic. For the first time, it sets out the priorities of development, planning, construction, reconstruction and maintenance of functional railway infrastructure, as well as concrete heights and sources, i.e. potential sources of necessary financial resources. This document is a thorough overview of the current situation, the detected problems, and the proposal to answer a specific problem, and all in order to improve rail transport. This basic document, the National Programme, provides guidelines for decision-making to both state authorities and local self-government bodies, decisions concerning improving transport economic infrastructure. What is also significant, this is the first document proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly for adoption for the last 25 years, which gives a really great overview of the various projects that are at different stages of planning and construction. For our SVM-PD parliamentary group, it is extremely important that part of the national programme, which is in addition to the review of projects that are really in the work phase or in the stage of preparation for the implementation of the work and for which there are potential sources of funding, such as the shares of Novi Sad-Subotica-border Hungary, for which activities are under way to analyse the possibilities of pre-designing technical documentation financed from IPA 2011, is of exceptional importance to us and the part that concerns projects planned for activities, are still planning activities to prepare technical documentation and which projects have, unfortunately, not been at the top of priorities and for which the exact source of funding is not yet provided. These are railways that complete the highway tracks, primarily the part of Corridor 10, and which are of paramount importance for connecting both administrative districts and geographical regions in Serbia. I'll just mention a few. For example, the project of reconstruction of the Pančevo main-Zrenjanin-Banatsko Milosevo-Senta-Subotica railway is extremely important because it connects the economic centres of Pančevo, Zrenjanin, Kikinda and Senta with the European environment via Corridor 10 and, of course, the stations of Belgrade and Subotica. This track is geographically-functional in fact parallel to Corridor 10, through Serbia, Belgrade-Novi Sad-Subotica-Budapest and thus represents a reserve direction in the event of a possible reconstruction or accident on the track at Corridor 10. The second project is the project of reconstruction of the Segedin border of Hungary-Horgoš, Subotica-factory "Cikerija"-border Hungary, means Baja. Subotica-Horgosh-Segedin, as a regional railway, connects Vojvodina cities with southern parts, with cities in southern Hungary. This track is currently 27km long in the Republic of Serbia and is planned to carry out this reconstruction on the Hungarian side and AP Vojvodina initiative. This is by no means just one Hungarian-Hungarian project, but is of exceptional importance for the development of the entire region and all those environments and places on this path and beyond. For the mentioned stock, i.e. for part, a section of the Segedin-Birds of Hungary-Horgosh-Subotica railway, technical documentation was made from IPA funds, with co-financing from the AP Vojvodina budget and the estimated value of the investment for this stock is about 46m euros. The plan is for trains on this section to be transported from 120km to an hour in the future, and for the Subotica-factory Subotica-Cikeria-Baja border section, support has been given to apply from Hungary to complete the technical documentation for this 12km-long section of the IPA funds, i.e. the cross-border co-operation programme. We believe that it is an extremely important development, this development of the regional railway, because we will probably all agree that it contributes to economic, social and regional development, by improving the accessibility of the areas through which these railways pass and for the sake of simpler, easier, reliable transport between the mentioned regional centres for all interested users. The development of a network of regional railways is also extremely important because this contributes to the safety of traffic itself, i.e. increasing the quality of rail infrastructure, applying European standards, the extremely significant accessibility of rail infrastructure for all, environmental protection, etc. At the beginning of my presentation, I mentioned trans-European networks. The establishment and development of trans-Europeans is foreseen by the Treaty on European Community. The negotiating Chapter 21 takes over EU legal assets and a new EU infrastructure policy is in fact defined by the European Parliament Regulation and the Council on guidelines for the development of a trans-European traffic network, which was published in December 2013. It is interesting that the new EU policy for the first time establishes a basic traffic network based on nine corridors. The EU's general objective is to gradually, gradually by 2050, connect most citizens and businesses to these comprehensive networks so that no one is further away, meaning, at a length greater than 30 minutes. To this end, it is extremely important to mention that it will increase greatly, indeed triple EU funds, EU funds for transport infrastructure in this budget period from 2014 to 2020, and they will amount to 26 billion euros under cohesion instruments. For our parliamentary group, it is also extremely important that the draft decision to the National Public Railway Infrastructure Programme, which has been led by an extremely high quality public debate and that certain proposals have been accepted, means the proposals that occurred during the public debate. I'd only mention two of the most significant. One proposal is for local self-government and road infrastructure managers to be involved in traffic safety promotion activities. A concrete proposal has emerged that local self-government, such as the Subotica Construction Directorate, be involved in monitoring the implementation and maintenance of road routes, as maintenance is co-financed by local self-government. Extremely significant, the section, so I mentioned that there are planned projects that are not yet in the process of drawing up documentation that is an unknown source of funding, that data from the international IPA project for the Subotica-Horgoš railway has been entered, i.e. The Subotic-Chikeria project was launched. I would like to talk very briefly about the planned projects of inter-state bilateral co-operation in the Southeast European region. Southeast European countries have identified the need for co-operation to develop rail traffic. One of the results of co-operation is the project of modernising the Belgrade-Budapest railway or more detailed Belgrade – Novi Sad – Subotica – the border of Hungary – Budapest. The subject of the project is an extremely important modernisation of the existing, unfortunately, one-wheel and long-term railways Belgrade – Subotica – the state border – Kelebia, within the framework of Belgrade-Budapest's comprehensive railway, Corridor 10B, in an extremely modern two-way inter-operable inter-operable rail line, both passenger and freight traffic and planned train speed on this section should reach 200km per hour. The reconstruction and modernisation of the Stara Paz-Novi Sad stock, we must also point out here, is the subject of the realisation of the government's loan to the Russian Federation. This particular stock is by all characteristics the most difficult, the most complex in topographic, geotechnical, hirotechnical, spatial, urban and other characteristics, the most complex and complex, but is expected very soon. The international significance of the Belgrade-Budapest track, which is part of the traditional railway transit corridor for the Western and central Europe connection with Greece, Turkey, the Middle East, has been confirmed by pan-European priority corridors and agreements. These pan-European priority agreements and corridors define plans and standards for the development of the Trans-European railway network, which the Republic of Serbia has ratified under the law. Allow me to refer to another specific agreement or statute in the follow-up of my presentation. It would also link this exposure to European integration, the exceptional importance of strengthening regional co-operation. As we know, Serbia is giving special attention to an informally set meeting of the Western Balkan Six, so-called, and as we know so-called. The Berlin process was actually initiated by German Chancellor Angela Merkel. We must mention, you probably, Mr Minister, in your opening statement, talked about being part of the Berlin Process, so at the Paris Summit on 4 July 2016, actually the first result of that summit was a declaration, which referred to several topics, from the migrant crisis through the fight against terrorism, but an extremely significant European perspective of the entire Western Balkans, economic co-operation throughout the region, improvements in the business climate, progress in the integration of transport and energy areas, and what we are talking about here today, among other things, youth co-operation and better mobility, employment growth and reconciliation. It is extremely important to sign an agreement on the establishment of a regional office for youth co-operation by the prime minister of participants, so-called. The western Balkan six, and that is the concrete achievement of the summit last July. As we know, the integration agenda is one of the key pillars of the Berlin process, mutual co-operation, both in the region and co-operation with the EU. In fact, the essence of this agreement, which is finally on the agenda of the National Assembly, is intended to achieve as much mobility, diversity, promotion of democratic values, active civic participation and international education of young people as possible. The bill actually proposes the establishment, i.e. a regional office for youth co-operation is established. We know there's been an arranged seat in Tirana. It is extremely important that it supports a regional exchange that is extremely important between young people across the region, their co-operation, as well as institutions dealing with specific issues of young people and ensuring implementation of joint programmes with a focus on young people. As you said, Mr. Minister, this body is extremely important for young people in the region, because it actually represents one platform for their co-operation and the creation of joint programmes. As we understand it, we certainly welcome that it is conceived as a regional office for the exchange of knowledge and experience of young people, and the goal is to respond to their needs, so that some of their knowledge and experience is improving, that they are certainly perfecting and progressing in the future. We believe that through direct encounters they will really learn enough about each other and will contribute to better understanding and mutual understanding in the region. Although young people in the region differ, in fact they all face very similar problems, if not identical problems, of course, only if we talk about the region and so in Europe, is one of the biggest unemployment, large unemployment among young people, corruption and brain drains. That is why this exchange, among these countries, is extremely important, and the problem of mobility, they are most complaining about obstacles to mobility, and in the absence of recognition of diplomas in various... So one country doesn't recognise each other's diplomas and that makes mobility difficult. We hope this agreement will make it easier. I don't want to talk about details, but we're all familiar with funding, functioning, actually how it's imagined, but I believe that practice so far has shown that youth mobility, their co-operation really contributes to better understanding in the region and that ethnic and religious prejudice and stereotypes in the countries of the region, thanks to this project, will disappear. For the very end, members of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians and Party for Democratic Action will support all proposals on the agenda in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17201	Thank you. The word is by MP Nemanja Sarovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17202	Mr. Arsic, Articles 27, 105, 106, 107 and 108 have been broken. What's this about? You know that no one can interfere with the speaker in any way, that everyone is obliged to listen to him. But here we have a different picture. We are constantly disturbed here by waiters, waiters who bring coffee to ministers, who bring them water and that way... (Serb Progressive Party emissaries earn. ) You throw it to your will, you may not mind, but it speaks of you. So there's a congregation cafeteria, this is a congregation hall. A discussion of the laws is being held in the congregation hall. It is absolutely incorrect that at the time of the presentation of any MPs, waiters pass by to rattle, to bring sugar, to bring milk, to ask which kind of coffee they want, to keep ministers talking all the time, but not in the way that the Rules of Procedure is intended. They didn't sign up for a word, so they got it, but they're talking to each other about what kind of coffee came in. Please, Mr. Arsic, instruct the ministers, if they want to drink coffee, it's not a dispute, there are ministers who didn't come today, let them come out nicely, let them do it in the place that is set for it. Don't do this in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So that way you would protect the integrity of the National Assembly, the dignity of the citizens who voted for you. Warn the ministers that they must draw a line somewhere. They came here to answer the question of MPs, to present to us the laws they represent, they didn't come for coffee. This is not a cafe, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17203	Your Honor, I don't think there's been any breach of the Rules of Procedure. Recently, the president of your group MP, MP Vojislav Seselj, asked for coffee to bring the waiter to the front row where he sat exactly where he was sitting. He got that coffee. You thought, you sat behind him, that no injured Rules of Procedure, even fewer ministers who would sit here for hours do not violate the Rules of Procedure, and yet they cannot break the Rules of Procedure, but I do. I thank you very much, but you can't have double arches. If Vojislav Seselj can drink coffee in the MPs' benches, of course ministers can. You can't answer that. You can't answer that. You can't answer that. Thank you very much. The word is made by the People's Rules of Procedure Miroslav Lazanski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17204	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, distinguished gentlemen from the Ministry of Defence, I believe you have watched and listened to everything today. If I hadn't been accused of being biased about NATO and some observations about it, I would have told you that in this room I was the first to enter NATO in 1982. So, it's been a long time in Mons, an interview with NATO Commander-in-chief, American General Bernard Rogers. Why are all these laws collected today, by some estimates, and whether there's a conspiracy theory, or if there's some bad hidden intention? I assume that all these bill proposals came in line for ratification, so, with these circumstances, they found themselves practically next to each other. On this occasion, I would try to respond to some estimates of the Balkan military-medical force, whether it is in some way involving, indirectly, Serbia in NATO or not. It is strictly said here that the body for the organisation and implementation, training and operation is defined, and that is the permanent peacetime branch of the Balkan, or the organs of the Balkan medical forces, which means that it is not war. If there were a war situation, of course these common Balkan medical forces wouldn't have been anything, if it were simply to be broken up. We need to know that Serbia is the only country in this region that has maintained military health. In all the republics of the former Yugoslavia, military healthcare no longer exists. The military medical academy is a brand, not only of the armies of Serbia, but of the states of Serbia. After Serbia, perhaps the highest quality health care has Macedonia. So why was Macedonia elected as the seat for the first rotation of these common Balkan medical forces? Probably because health care is the best quality after Serbia. I wouldn't be looking for any reason to know if there's any hidden intentions. No, I would remind you, even in World War II, that both the Allies and the Germans, even, were healing each other, and were in a declared state of war. Of course, in the event of any conflict from these common Balkan medical forces, there is nothing, and here it is strictly and defined that they will serve in the event of the removal of natural disasters in the region. Who can guide them? I believe that in any kind of war operation of that medical force, as far as Serbia is concerned, it will not be able to go without this Parliament's decision. So, any second assumption, or hypothetical consideration of whether or not we'd go, I don't think there's room for that at this point, it's clear who's setting it up. It is absolutely beyond any reality that the Assembly, the Serbian Parliament, would support that Serbia's military medical team go, for example, on a combat mission within NATO. That even the previous government did not dare put in a parliamentary debate when it was estimated that four Serbian doctors in Afghanistan under the "Isafa" mission would mean a lot to the image of Serbia, and even then it was not put into the assembly procedure. We need to know that the reputation of Serbia's military health is the largest in the region, that even foreign diplomats visit VMA, when it comes to medical interventions, etc. Let the people go, let them gain experience, finally our military doctors in the Central African Republic as part of Mission "MINUSCA", where there are 47 countries from the world, of which some neutral military states, such as Austria, therefore, from all continents. These military doctors get valuable experiences from treatment, various kinds of diseases, which is not uninteresting for our country, since it comes and passes through this area a large number of migrants who can carry with them different types of diseases. Where will we experience preventing all of this if we don't send our military-medical teams into this kind of mission? It's not combat missions, it's true. There are a number of soldiers who protect them there, our soldiers, but it's a valuable experience. Finally, a great deal of those costs, most of the costs are covered by the UN, let's say what's not negligible, let people make a little money, make money. The former Yugoslavia had the same missions abroad, where people reported to go, precisely because it's a certain material good. Second, no one makes anyone go on missions like that. These are voluntary missions, anyone going on a mission, whether within the framework of whether the European Union, a mission to fight pirates in the Indian Ocean or under a mission in the Central African Republic, they are volunteers. They sign the contract, go at their own risk. Therefore, I have no fear of this kind of military presence abroad. This mission in the Central African Republic has already proved to be very good, I think now the fourth rotation has gone recently. There has been a civil war since 2013, the Serbian army has been present since 2014, in the framework of helping national unification policy, a policy that goes towards some kind of end of civil war between Christians and Muslims. At this point, the government controls only the capital of Bangui, where the Muslim tribes of Seleka and the Christian Balaka have been fighting each other since 2013. Our forces are concentrated on the Morava military base. There's our hospital, 200 meters from our base, and I can say, what I've read from foreign newspapers, foreign military papers, that the experiences of our forces have been very positively assessed, that our units have received great recognitions, and that's something that promotes the image of the Serbian Army, first of all, on this humanitarian plan, no one goes there to fight, nor can we draw some kind of vengeful, terrorist action on our territory. The local tribes, who face each other, know very well that we are not on a combat mission there, but are just about to help that people. The military-technical agreement with Belarus is very important to us, because Belarus, according to its military technique, is the finest in the former Soviet Union. I was at their base "Baranovici" and their military-technical institute "Baranovici", they have a cheaper remont of some military airships, even than, perhaps, the Russians. It's very good to work with them, because they're very open to us, we have friendly relationships, there's no political blackmail. On the other hand, their remont is very good quality. We usually experience Belarus in a pervasive sense, but I will tell you that Belarus is what Slovenia used to be in the former Yugoslavia, a fine technique, precise technique and very modern technology. Their colonel, a pilot, at a base in Baranovici, has a salary of $900. About Belarus, often our opposition political factors are negatively expressed. The military agreement with Slovakia, i.e. the bill should be passed because Slovakia, in former Czechoslovakia, was the bearer of the military industry. For us, for a while, for our cannons, the hoodies "Nora B-52" until we got a cannon pipe drill device, we had tubes arriving from Slovakia, although they were a Slovak member of NATO, but they had a very generous attitude towards our military industry and helped us whenever they could. Finally, Slovakia did not recognise Kosovo and should also have it in mind when I speak. I would also like to welcome this bill, which Minister Vulin here suggested, a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the protection of war graves and military memorials, which is very important because of our history. I'd say one thing here, which probably you, I believe most of you don't know, I'd ask the government of Germany to sign such an agreement, because we in Osnabrik have the largest northern tomb. What is in Thessaloniki Zajtinlik, it is in Osnabrik camp of Yugoslav royal officers, 12,000 Yugoslav royal officers were in a camp in Osnabrik during World War II. There were mostly only Serbs and Montenegrins, including some Slovenes. The Germans released Hungarians, Slovenians, released Macedonians, Bosnians and Croats. Serbs and Montenegrins stayed in the camp and, I say, some Slovenian remained because he remained faithful to oaths. There were 600 Jews, active and reserve officers of the Yugoslav Royal Army, who were tried to extract and send to Auschwitz in 1941. Our officers opposed the move, there were even physical charges, there was no shooting, but the Jews stayed in the camp and saved their lives. Look, Spielberg made a film called "Shindler's List" of 700 Jews he saved. As Serbia, we forget something that was positive for the Serbian people in World War II when it comes to the context. Yugoslav royal officers saved 600 Jewish prisoners who were protected by the Geneva Convention in Osnabrik, and therefore stayed alive because our men opposed being dragged out of camp and sent to Auschwitz. I suggest that Minister Voulina take care of this memorial complex in Osnabrik. I was there in 2009 because my late father was one of the royal army officers who had been in that camp for four years. I know the details of everything that's been going on there. There's our strong church community, there's a memorial complex, and there's one boat that's been preserved, because our animal struggles to keep it as a memorial room. So I propose to the government that Germany also be referred to the proposal in order to reach an agreement on the preservation of the camp that has fantastic symbolism not only for the Serbian people, but also as proof of the positive things that the Serbs did in World War II. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17205	Thank you. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17206	Only as information to the Ambassador of Lazan. It discusses this particular topic and the achievement of an appropriate agreement that would regulate our relationship and the mutual relationship between the Government of the Republic of Germany and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For us, it is truly of great importance to mark all historical sites, 676 known memorials of the Serbian people exist in 40 countries. I'm talking about the famous, there are definitely strangers. Surprise yourselves, for example. You find believe or not in Sweden, there's a Serb prisoner's grave that escaped from Norway, and he died there. So the mass is our graves. When you talk about what we don't know, there's a terrible tomb in Mathausen, 12,000 officers and soldiers, prisoners from the Royal Army, about 5km away in a village called Guzen is a tomb for 8,000 Serb prisoners from World War I. So wherever you look, the Serb army has left behind signs of a struggle for freedom. So it would also be nice here at this assembly meeting that, if we could, we wouldn't joke about this. Let's let it go, jokes and jumps, everything's fine, but don't, either our graves or other graves deserve to be put into politics or political games in any way. Each of these legal proposals we put before you, as you can see, has elements abroad, each. This would essentially have to be explained by the foreign minister. Everyone and how they have connections, because as you can see, they have a relationship to something that is between our country and abroad, our government and some other governments. It's important that these very important agreements are adopted, that our government can function on them, that our country can function on them, and that there is indeed more than enough connection between them. More than that, you can see that here all the ministers who suggested something of this, each of us is obliged to defend his law. This is not the time when ministers did not come to parliament to defend their laws and their proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17207	Thank you. Are any of the other authorizeds answering for word? (No) Dubravka Filipovski, no. Ana Ciric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17208	Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with co-workers, respected citizens of Serbia, presently there are a number of laws on the validation of the agreement, both on visa waiver between different countries, which will significantly support the socio-economic relationship between the two countries and agreements related to the development of young people in the region, which is very important to include them in socio-political life in the region, which is now significant for the Republic of Serbia. I would particularly refer to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Czech Republic that speaks about the protection of monuments. This is a very important topic for the government of the Republic of Serbia. She's been supporting this subject ever since we came to power. If we remember the period after October 5th, we didn't even remember the fallen fighters, we didn't even remember NATO bombing, we didn't even remember Pogrom. Each year, the government of the Republic of Serbia honours our fallen fighters and thus gives us the opportunity for a better future. The people remember all the fallen fighters and this government must not forget them. That is why I am extremely happy that this is only one in a series of agreements that will be signed on this topic, because we must honor fighters beyond the borders of the Republic of Serbia. I do not have much time yet, but I would like to take advantage of the opportunity on behalf of the parliamentary group and as representative of the Women's Parliamentary Network, and I would like to condemn Parliament MP Zoran Zivkovic's statement that offended not only our Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic, but all the MPs in this House. He insulted not only the MPs, not just the women in politics, he insulted all the citizens who voted for us, he insulted all the citizens who voted for him. The government of the Republic of Serbia is investing a lot in both development and economy and employment. We know that soon there will be a maternity law where all women, regardless of the type of contract, will be able to go to maternity leave. For this reason, I am sure that this government will continue to propose excellent laws, that this assembly majority will surely support those laws, and that Zoran Zivkovic, with such shameful statements, will never again receive support from Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17209	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17210	Dear Presidents, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, I would like to join the condemnation sent by the Women's Parliamentary Network on behalf of MP Zoran Zivkovic's statement. I ask, can I, as a man, condemn such a single statement? Today, a proposal is on the agenda to confirm 21 agreements from several areas, but which talk about one fact, on one finding. The increased international reputation of the Republic of Serbia and its growing importance in international relations. One of our country's foreign policy objectives is to strengthen bilateral co-operation with as many countries as possible and European as possible, but also non-European. We also implement this strengthening of our international position through bilateral agreements on different types of co-operation, given that every further step in co-operation is usually limited by the existence of a visa regime. I will only remain for a short while on these eight agreements that speak on the area, and my colleagues will give an SPS position on all other agreements. So, given that every further step in co-operation is usually limited by the existence of a visa regime, the issue of visa waiver is also a starting point of diplomatic and official, preliminary issue for the spread of any form of international co-operation. I'm talking about eight signed bilateral agreements in the field of international relations that the National Assembly should ratify. The three agreements were signed by the government of the Republic of Serbia with the governments of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of France and the Republic of Portugal, and concern the employment of members of the family of diplomatic and consular staff. What's this about? Here these agreements are based on reciprocity, and we know that the basic criterion in bilateral relations is reciprocity, allowing the work of members of the family of diplomatic and consular representatives in the country in which they are located. Of course, the rules of the profession and the labour law that are in force in that country apply. This form of bilateral co-operation with three very important European states for Serbia is of great importance. On the one hand, good co-operation has already been achieved on a number of issues from our bilateral relations. On the other hand, we also look beyond, in the context of Serbia's EU membership position. Otherwise, Serbia has bilateral agreements with 16 countries of this type. In essence, these agreements not only allow for the employment of members of the family of diplomatic and consular staff, but also, in a very specific way, limit privileges and immunities when it comes to the activities of the family of diplomatic and consular staff, which would otherwise belong to the Vienna Conventions on diplomatic and consular relations. What do I want to say? It is also noted that in many families, spouses find it difficult to accept leaving work to go with their spouse to a country where he should be a diplomatic representative. This has led many countries, including ours, to seek solutions in this way and in fact in this way a solution has also been found through the signing of these agreements with countries: Germany, France and Portugal. We also have five agreements on the agenda concerning visa waivers for holders of diplomatic and official passports, which relate not only to holders of diplomatic and official passports, but also to official representatives of international organisations accredited on the territory of the other Contracting Party, as well as family members, provided they have diplomatic official passports. The visa waiver agreement for diplomatic and official passports from five non-European states, and it is about Iraq, Indonesia, Kyrgyzian, Thailand and Guatemala, which is very important and it is a large number of friendly countries with which we have a number of common interests on the international agenda. It should be noted here when it comes to diplomatic and official passports that abolishing visas for diplomats and their families is in fact the first significant step towards creating more favourable conditions for further improving political relations and comprehensive co-operation in economic, cultural, scientific and other areas of mutual interest and importance and improvement in the fact of overall co-operation. The abolition of these visas can certainly be considered, it is very important to note, with a step closer to establishing a visa-free regime and for all other citizens. In that sense, I want to give strong support to the foreign ministry's goal today, and the goal is to abolish visas with as many countries as possible. When it comes to these five countries, I would particularly like to stress that these are countries that are in the process of illegal recognition of so-called. The states of Kosovo, that none of the five states discussed today have recognised a false state of Kosovo. Finally, Serbia is today a desirable foreign policy partner, who can be a mediator between the West and Europe, Russia and China, because Serbia's international position is strengthened by the good results and the success of our diplomacy, the activities of this government and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, who enjoys great reputation. Serbia today is not an object in foreign policy, Serbia is a subject today. Serbia is not being discussed in international relations today, in international relations it is today talking to Serbia. Strong support of the SPS for such a course, such as in the conduct of foreign policy by the government and the foreign ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17211	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17212	Dear President, dear ministers, I would like to begin by joining the condemnation of an act today by Ambassador Zoran Zivkovic, i.e. a statement sent to the President of the Assembly. But you know how, in order to comment on someone's act, that someone has to earn it, and about Zoran Zivkovic, who is human and moral and political zero, is not worth wasting his words. What Zoran Zivkovic did to one woman today, according to the president of the Assembly, is ready to do tomorrow to his fellow MPs, is ready to do tomorrow to all other women in the Republic of Serbia. But what do you expect from the man who led the hordes who broke in and burned down this congregation? What do you expect from the man who ran the hordes that turned on the TV and the rest?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17213	Ambassador, please let's get back to the agenda. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17214	The Socialist Movement Group will, of course, support all these bill proposals. We are witnessing that, while the government is proposing a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the protection of war graves and military memorials, we are witnessing that today the court is making a shameful decision which is a slap to its Serbian people, which is a slap to all victims in World War II, which is a slap to their descendants. The decision is a decision to rehabilitate war criminals, occupier servants and traitor Nikola Kalabic. This man has marked and branded himself for all time and no one will ever change the memory of the Serb people, and he will not be able to make a freer and an anti-fascist from criminals and traitors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17215	Thank you. The word is "Zonimir Stević". Natasha Sp. Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. I gave my word to Ambassador Zvonimir Stevic, you will wait. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17216	Dear Presidents, honourable ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will today, in the framework of this unique search, discuss the draft law confirming the Status and Functions of the International Commission for Missing Persons. We consider this agreement extremely important because the issue of finding and finding missing persons during the war conflicts on the territory of the former SFRY, especially in Kosovo and Metohija, is very important to us. The agreement is important because the status authority of the International Commission depends largely on the work of our Commission on missing persons. Otherwise, the International Commission was founded in 1996, primarily to ensure government co-operation to seek the missing from the conflict in the former Yugoslavia. The International Commission for Missing Persons was founded as an international organisation. By concluding the Agreement on the Status and Functions of the International Commission for Missing Persons in The Hague on 16 December 2015, which signed the Ambassador of the Republic of Serbia in the Netherlands on behalf of the Government, the Republic of Serbia has become the founder of the International Missing Persons Office, with the possibility of participating in the decision-making process. By joining the International Commission on Missing Persons, the Republic of Serbia can count on the further support of the International Missing Persons Office in resolving the fate of the missing persons of Serbian nationality, as well as the citizen of the Republic of Serbia of other nationalities, which is of special importance to us. Given the significant impact and activities of the International Office in resolving this issue in the region over the past years, the fact that a large number of remains of missing persons are not located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, that the Republic of Serbia has requirements for the search for missing persons towards multiple parties in the region, and vice versa, the importance of our membership is unequivocal. The international commission is the one whose experts carry out DNA and blood tests on exhumed persons and allow them to be completely neutral, without political prejudice, to determine the identity of missing persons whose posthumous remains are found. The work of this committee prevents abuse from any side. In addition, the process of DNA analysis of missing persons this commission for members and founders is working without compensation, so free of charge, which is a great help to us and other countries in the region who are asking to identify missing persons. Due to the course of ten years since the first conflict in 1991, the DNA method is only possible in determining the identity of the victims. Our Missing Persons Commission was educated by the government decision of the Republic of Serbia on 8 June 2006 with the mandate to address missing persons' problems in armed conflicts in the area of the former SFRY and AP Kosovo and Metohija. Professional administrative and technical tasks for the needs of the Commission for Missing Persons shall be carried out by the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration, in the context of a specially formed missing persons sector. The Commission keeps a unique record of missing persons in armed conflicts and of armed conflicts in the area of the former SFRY from 1991 to 1995 and the AP of Kosovo and Metohija from 1998 to 2000. He keeps records of exhumed, identified and unidentified remains, as well as many other missing persons cases that are foreseen by government and commission acts. The Commission has great responsibility and is very responsible from its establishment to this day for the search for missing persons and their identification. This is also done by good regional co-operation because our region is the most affected European region with the problem of missing and kidnapped persons, because one of the most difficult consequences of the armed conflict in the area of the former SFRY and Kosovo and Metohija is a large number of missing persons. A total of 2,429 missing persons, 1,762 in the Republic of Croatia, 97 in Bosnia and Herzegovina, 570 in Kosovo and Metohija, are still missing in the Commission's official missing persons records. At this moment, 10,478 missing persons are wanted in the former SFRY space, Croatia 2,071, Bosnia and Herzegovina 6,752 and Kosovo and Metohija 1,664 persons. Of which are the missing Serbs and others on our search list, including missing Serbs from Republika Srpska, more than 3,300 people. Otherwise, more than 25,000 missing persons have been resolved through existing mechanisms so far. It's not easy to do this job that's linked to the difficult family tragedies. I therefore believe that every recognition of the efforts our Missing Persons Commission is making to reveal the truth about missing persons, their discovery and identification should be given. The threat to the families of missing and kidnapped persons requires an even more up-to-date and efficiency of work both internationally and our missing persons commission. Here in front of the National Assembly building, we have a wall with photographs of missing persons in Kosovo and Metohija, which are posted by members of the Association of Missing and Kidnapped Persons. I am alone from Kosovo and Metohija and I understand this difficult human problem and I advocate with the support of the Missing Persons Commission, which still has this difficult task, the task of finding and identifying missing persons in war and other conflicts. For all these reasons, I suggest that this agreement be ratified. The SPS parliamentary group will support this, as well as all other agreements in today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17217	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17218	Madam President, I'm reporting to members 27 and 107. My breach of the Rules of Procedure was a direct violation as Ambassador Bagica spoke. You should have reacted because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was not allowed to comment on court rulings. Namely, he spoke very uglyly of one of the Chetnic commanders, Nikola Kalabic. I think it's past time, and you know very well, because you are from such a family mile and origin, Krcun and 1948, and communist judgments at speed and overnight because we are here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for those of us who are directed to this, very competently opened the entire historic, to say rhetorical, archives about the role and heroism of the Chetnic Movement Draža Mihailovic. That is why you were obliged to warn the MP that he should not speak in such a way and not comment in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because the anti-fascist struggle and all that the Chetniks of Draja Mihailovic and Nikola Kalabic did not question. Therefore, if we have waited for the fall of communism so that we can read about it and that people can write openly on the basis of their knowledge and personal testimony, it is really inappropriate for the MPs to say so.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17219	Thank you. By 1945, we were supposed to finish all these discussions and let historians tell their court. I'm asking Bojana Bagic to refrain because I don't want to spread the debate here about the Chetnik movement and the communist movement. So, please, let's get this over with, or I'll finish the session, 'cause I don't want to hear it. I think we're done with these ideological divisions a long time ago. There are those of us who have been here family, there are those of us who have been there, but we have all fought for the same thing, for Serbia. The word is Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17220	Dear Presidents, respected ministers, fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, which is Svrljig municipality, which is next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, which is the town of Nis. I was elected from the SNS list and I represent the United Peasant Party in the Serbian Parliament. A few days ago, I asked one question about the reconstruction and reconstruction of the railway line, and now we have a railway construction programme on the territory of Serbia in 2017. There is a part about the reconstruction of the piece of the railroad from Nis, through Svrljig, Književci, Zaječar, Bora and below. This is very important to me as a man living in that part of Serbia because we are witnessing that part of the railroad is in very bad shape. It is my pleasure that the programme is now planned to work through Nis moving the railway and everything that is done in the territory of the city of Nis and Southeast Serbia that is very important for those of us who live there. The government, headed by Mr. Vucic, has really heard and heard about southeastern Serbia, and I think that we will all be able to do a lot of things together in the coming period that have started these things and end it. By reconstructing the railway, according to a programme that will be done in the next period, I hope that it will be just as we said earlier, that passenger traffic and rail traffic can also work through that section of the Nis track towards eastern Serbia and normal road traffic that is very important to us living there. Construction and construction of the Nis airport, which is very frequent, is very important for those of us living in that part of Serbia. Once again, I will vote in favour of all these proposals, because I think it is important for all of us and for all of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17221	Thank you. You've spent your time with your MPs. The word is Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17222	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, the minister spoke about the genealogy of the Paris Agreement and I don't think there's any need to repeat it. What will be my focus today is to accept the Paris Agreement. For us as Green Serbia, the agreement is important, above all on the global scale, because the US and China have for the first time accepted the obligation to reduce emissions and we could welcome it as humanity because it is our intention to try to correct the rise in temperature and global warming. Events in recent years have been unequivocally talking about climate change, and we have these changes in Serbia as well as in the whole world. Unfortunately, I couldn't start my speech as my esteemed previous colleague, I don't come from the most beautiful community, I unfortunately come from the most polluted municipality, from Obrenovac, and that's why I'm talking. There are probably colleagues here who believe their municipalities are polluted, but I would like to compete with counterpart Miletic in that all municipalities in Serbia are the most beautiful, not the most polluted. For this reason, I think, as someone who comes from a city where the energy sector is dominant, carbon-generating pollution is dominant, I think it's very important, but we are speaking here as a parliamentary group of SPS, and as Green Serbia, it is very important that we accept and confirm the Agreement in Paris. Dear Ministers, from our ministry, or should I say from your ministry, the initiative must be more determined to restructure all sectors. They need your colleagues and our colleagues to understand that the fight for climate, the fight for environmental protection, is really important, and that maybe our agreement can or must and should be roof agreements. Our MP group, of course, supports you in the efforts you've been making for the last year, or since you've been a minister, and we think that the changes that are happening, the truth happens slowly, but what we've been destroying for decades, we can't change now overnight. The partial successes that exist in the energy sector, of course, do not depend on you, raising the quality of the environment, unfortunately, cannot drag us in, and that is why Green Serbia believes that the Agreement on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement can be Serbia's developmental chance in one way. The strategy you have announced to combat climate change for 2018 might be good if, in the spirit of this Paris Agreement, it could be called a strategy for easing, adapting, preventing, minimising the causes and consequences of climate change. Anyone, this could be for us for environmental protection is the most important strategy. What is important to the citizens of Serbia, that Serbia is in the status of so-called No, Annex I of the country, which means that there is no obligation of financial giving, or financial giving for the functioning of the institutions of the Paris Agreement's mechanism, does not fall under the burden of citizens of Serbia, and we can see this as a very significant mechanism of green development. Green Serbia thinks it might be good to set up a deforestation fund and maybe trust the Institute of Forestry with the establishment of camps or public works in order to make Serbia more, faster, and above all, Vojvodina. I know there are plans, but we're saying this maybe because people in other sectors who don't always understand enough environmental problems, don't understand the problems of the circular economy. We consider shaming from the SPS and Green Serbia parliamentary group, the shaming is seen as a fight against flood erosion and will certainly be one of our most important ventures in the coming period. We have very important, to say, or very much we can do in other sectors, it's a reduction in energy waste, a saving of water and electricity loss, the use of biomass, the security of loss through energy efficiency in parentheses, the use of energy from waste, waste in energy, the burning of biomass, along with lignite, and thus try to make this carbon production green. We naturally, like Greens, want there to be no coal production, and we have to explain to our colleagues that it's not a coal source of life, but that it's the sun, and that's the chance. We really see the Agreement as a chance to develop and in all those sectors that you've been talking about, and that's traffic, and agriculture and the rail and public transport sectors and support the transition to electric and hybrid vehicles. This is a chance, which is why the SPS and Green Serbia parliamentary groups will support this agreement, and we will also try to say in the future that with constructive proposals we may also improve some of the following steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17223	Thank you. Minister Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17224	The Honorable President, honourable MPs, above all for the sake of the public, I forgot one thing about the explanation, since there were several documents and they were told to mention a few things. How important this Paris deal really is. It is not just one simple document where many countries have agreed that it is necessary to reduce the emissions of harmful gases, but a simple tool that is available. It's one green climate fund and a global fund. It's one huge source of funding for everything you've just talked about. One example, practically. We are very often witnessing these days during May, that we have huge damage to agricultural crops for one simple reason, because we have climate change and major secretions, that we have over a short period of time and these city clouds. Exactly, through this green climate fund and through this global fund, there is a possibility that we can get grants to solve, huge infrastructure works that will help overcome these climate change, and that is why this, among other things, is important. The stories of anti-urban networks, in a very large space, the stories of anti-urban missiles, that's all the things that can be financed, right from this fund, and that's why it's very important to get one general support to solve these problems, and that's why this Paris Agreement is important. He's not just one piece of paper that has no concrete value at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17225	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Stefan Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17226	Dear Presidents, distinguished guests and distinguished ministers and guests from the ministries, we have 21 international agreements ahead, which should be ratified at this session. My colleagues have talked about many agreements, and I will briefly refer to traffic agreements. First of all, in these two air traffic agreements, the Hong Kong Administrative Region Agreement of the People's Republic of China, which is practically a classic air traffic agreement and concerns the arrangement of relations with Hong Kong, which will allow, above all, closer to connecting Serbia and Hong Kong, as well as strengthening cultural and economic co-operation. The second agreement is an agreement on the transfer of responsibilities for the provision of air traffic services between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It is of a technical nature and refers to the procedures and transfer of air traffic responsibilities related to flight control in both countries' territory. This agreement is important because of the need to allow safe and efficient air traffic flow and the safe implementation of landing and take-off procedures on both the territory of the Republic of Serbia and the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Given the remaining time of my parliamentary group, I would refer within minutes to a decision on the national public railway programme, i.e. the rail infrastructure for the period 2017-20121. According to the current Transport Development Strategy 2010-2015, rail traffic had, as a form of traffic of significant and economic and ecological value compared to other modes of traffic and increased efficiency of mass transport of passengers and goods. By adopting the new Law on Railways in 2013, amendments and additions in 2015 and then the new Law on the Security of Interoperability of Railways, we have established a normative framework for a completely new, modern concept of governance, exactly in line with this strategy, but also in line with the government's plan for the coming period. It was clear that the effects of applying these new regulations would be visible after a few years. It is precisely the national public railway infrastructure programme, which is on the agenda today, that must set priorities for development, construction and reconstruction, as well as maintaining the functionality of public railway infrastructure and provide guidelines for improving conditions for the establishment of a modern concept of rail traffic development in Serbia. The programme defined the target technical and technological parameters of our infrastructure development and the programme planned to extend the infrastructure network, as well as the programmes that will achieve part of the necessary modernisation of our railways, in particular the reconstruction and modernisation project of Pan-European Corridor 10 shares, through the Republic of Serbia and Belgrade – Bar. In short, I would also refer to the chapter relating to intermodal transport as a special type of transport and which should represent the developmental opportunity of our railway. Intermodal transport, which is based on multi-model transport, realizes most of the road by rail or waterway, because these two types of traffic are both more economical and eco-friendly, and the shortest distances are usually at the beginning and end by road traffic. The railway as a carrier of intermodal transport has a chance and must improve its business with other modes of transport and respond to increasingly strict market requirements. The programme recognises the development of intermodal logistics networks that are necessary for the inclusion of the Republic of Serbia in international intermodal transport, and this is the prospect of the maximum rail transport potential for the transport of different types and goods and products, as it is a common logistics product of all modes of traffic on the modern transport market. The plan also shows the construction, i.e. the planning of new terminals intermodally combined for the transport of goods, the construction of terminals in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis, that in addition to existing railway freight stations as part of railway infrastructure. For the economy, it is also important that the plan envisions a project to build the first modern intermodal terminal, which will be in Batajnica, Belgrade with all necessary capacities and a track link with railway infrastructure as part of a future logistics centre. We need developed infrastructure, and what the Law on Railways and the Law on the Safety of Railways has provided as formal conditions for the new concept of governance and development of the railway system is embedded in this National Programme which leads to further development and modern and safe railways, which is the goal and government, and should be the goal of all of us. Certainly, the SPS Group will also support these documents, and in the end, I would also like to risk challenging the replica, but I must abuse this time and condemn on behalf of my colleagues the inappropriate and inappropriate rhetoric of my colleague Zoran Zivkovic. As a woman and as a politician, not only is the president of parliament offended, but each of us is. We ask Zoran Zivkovic to apologize in the least, first of all, to the President of Parliament, this was not the first time, and I expect my fellow journalists to announce a protest signed by the MPs and MPs on this occasion, and this protest was even supported by guests from the Ministry and ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17227	Thank you. Your parliamentary group has spent time scheduled for discussion. Muamer Zukorlic is not here. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17228	Here we have several laws concerning, above all, military agreements, then the visa regime, air space control, international co-operation in the preservation of history and the preservation of the cemetery and infrastructures of the Serbian railway, the national programme for the development of the Serbian railway infrastructure. If a man were to be honest, he has to admit that each area deserves a special session. As far as military agreements are concerned, it is an established scheme proposed to the Assembly. The only thing that we Serbian radicals here welcome and in any case emphasize co-operation with Belarus. Finally, this military-technical co-operation with Belarus is being established. It has multiple meanings. First, to break through, which would say, that ice, which was back in the old days. When the SRS proposed to establish co-operation with Belarus in the 1990s, many here who are in ranks and positions and opposition then welcomed it with contempt, arguing the benefits of Belarus. One of the colleagues who discussed it has told the true truth – Belarus has kept everything best from the former Soviet system, especially when it comes to military technology and technology, not to mention other advantages that the Serbian Army can use in co-operation with Belarus. As regards the visa regime, these visa regimes should be established on an equal basis. It is necessary to remove the need for visas as much as possible, but as far as the Minister's data is concerned, that Serbia's passport is thirty and some place compared to 140, as I recall, total countries ranked with the importance of passports, we cannot boast with one fact that the diplomatic passport owns the mother-in-law of Tomislav Nikolic. It's a shame for all of us, especially for this government. You, Mr. Odalovich, can point your finger at what you want, but that shame and shame remains. You'll have to wear that. The way you're gonna wear it, no one knows. Now that Tomislav Nikolic is gone, you will most likely start to spray on the ashes, as it is extorted, as it is under pressure, but vanity is not exactly the rank and is not the person who should enjoy diplomatic status. We Serbian radicals warned you in time. You know, you have to mind what you do, especially when you're in power. Take care of yourself when you're in opposition. As far as air space control is concerned, this is a very important topic. You know, this isn't just about establishing a new line of air traffic between Serbia and China, this is about air space control or air flight control between Croatia and Serbia, and we here have a lot of information that is unclear and too subtle, professional, so it's unclear how due to the need for landing and take-off control at Osijek Airport, which part of Serbia will be under the control of Croatia's flying service? We can't just relax and say it – it's part of some international co-operation. As part of international co-operation, there is something that is settled when it comes to flying control at Belgrade Airport, or "Nikola Tesla", when it comes to flying with Nis Airport. It's from earlier, and we have a new fact here for flying control over Osijek Airport. It's complete control, I caricate things, but most of the territory or airspace above the northern part of Serbia. You have here defined at which flight altitude is controlled, whether it's seven or four, at which level it controls, it's now less important than it needed more explanations, an explanation of what it means. These are new moments, new moments when it comes to flying control cooperation. As for these historical monuments, they deserve great attention anyway. What some of us individuals may notice, so far has not paid attention to the preservation of cemeteries to Serb victims, and when we talk about Serb victims, I have to correct a speaker earlier, who said there were Serbs and Montenegrins at the camp in Germany. At that time, almost no one pleaded as a Montenegrin. They were all Serbian soldiers of the royal army, and now that somehow underneath the grains they wanted to forge history, there is no single document anywhere that they pleaded as Montenegrins in the royal army. If so, it was those who were not Serbian nationalities, so we must preserve the authenticity of historical events. What is an unusual surprise for us is that on a very important document that is before us Members, called the Public Railway Infrastructure Programme and this national public railway structure programme. It's something that's a foundation, not just for the development of rail traffic, but for the economy, for the economy, for the economy, and not for the resolute minister or for the new speech of the minister. It's a person of general education. Who doesn't know, it's her who's in charge of everything. After Tito, she was the only one who showed up. But she let us discuss here with her colleagues who express good will, but they're not in matter obviously. This is not just about railway infrastructure. Here is the biggest project, the biggest investment ahead of Serbia. This is a total of 2,700,000 euros in investment. We are witnessing that daily efforts by the government are being made to establish agreements and agreements, signed contracts on the reconstruction of railways, especially around these freeways. We here, instead of getting to ask the Secretary-General or "who," Minister, we here need to talk to the public, explain the details, and we don't have an answer. Namely, what's interesting here? It's interesting here that the government has singled out 800 million in advance for the completion of the Danube Road Bridge near Novi Sad. The construction of that bridge reminds us of that series "Dekna" - when, you don't know when it will. Every year, the ministry hits us, and especially the ministers, who through official notices, which through betting with some coalition partners, will they throw themselves into the Danube when that bridge is over or not, where good luck that they did it without a bridge would at least free Serbia from a great burden. But we need to be aware that it's a neural point when it comes to road and rail traffic. Serbia is also paying for significant penalty foams because of the lack of normal rail and road traffic. We need to speed it up if the government has singled out those funds. Secondly, here's what I'm asking you, who are you replacing Zorana Mihajlović, how do you think you end up including these different infrastructure systems when it comes to railways? You know that Russia gives credit to install its equipment, you know that China gives credit to install its equipment. European funds allocate funds on condition that it is their equipment. How are you going to fit those three seemingly simple equipment when it comes to infrastructure? It must be European standardisation if you go to the EU, or you must give up the EU. Europe will not accept you. Europe is only interested in one thing here - the profitability and profitability of the railways and see what you're doing. You, because of that EU, outside the law, against the law, not to tell the Constitution, are organising the railway in some three sectors. What's your explanation? In agreement with the World Bank. Well, the World Bank can't be above the law and above the Constitution of this state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17229	Thank you. The word has Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17230	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I think it is very important for the public to say a few things about two things that have just been said. One concerns our rating, or Serbian passport, and how it is appreciated in international frameworks. According to the portal Passport index, which is used in the world as one of the relevant points on the basis of which it is valued, the passport of the Republic of Serbia is 37th out of 199 ranked states and territories, since six territories are included in all of this. Other international organisations have also characterised the Republic of Serbia to take 43rd place when it is taken as a criterion in how many countries without a visa can be entered with the passport of the Republic of Serbia. This is clear for the public and for everyone to know what is currently the status and position of the Serbian passport. The second thing I wanted to say was this International Agreement between Serbia and Croatia. Of course, the Agreement covers the way in which the airspace is controlled and it is about civil airspace control. There are no other premises and no other hidden meanings about this. As far as rail infrastructure is concerned, it is a great pleasure to hear in a lot of speeches that this topic is being potent and that is one of the most important topics. Cheapest transport is by river and rail transport. For this very reason, it is very important that we be aware of what will be the future rail traffic for us. The Jell-O bridge will be over by the fall of this year. It's very important that this node is cleared. I think counterpart Mihajlovic, who will be in parliament on Monday or when he is the first next working day of parliament, will be able to give more details. But what's very important is the railway infrastructure is one of the things that is particularly insistent and you've noticed it well. The story of standardisation due to various sources of funding is unquestionable and there is a working group that deals with harmonising all these topics together with the EU and with other parties involved in this process and will absolutely be functional railways when built and there should be no problem with this. Anyway, every attention and every well-intentioned suggestion is welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17231	Thank you. (Milorad Mircic: Replica. ) No, there is no basis for replication, Article 104(3). There really isn't any basis. The next speaker can spend the time of the parliamentary group. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17232	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, respected citizens, today we have a set of legislative proposals, 21 draft laws, but indeed in an unusual atmosphere. In order to know Serbia's citizens, MP Zoran Zivkovic today tried to humiliate Parliament's president with the most primitive insults, to humiliate the MPs in this respected home. But it's not just an insult to them, it's, of course, an insult to the entire nation and it's important that citizens know what some MPs do on their behalf in this respected home. Today, some representatives of opposition political parties said that these proposed laws have absolutely nothing to do with it. I wouldn't agree with that. I think they're very connected. Here is a symbolic picture and an opportunity of everything the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done in the previous period. When you look at all these laws, they are a picture of opening doors both in the east, and all agreements, images of opening doors both in the east and in the west, images of making friends both in the east and in the west, entering many international organisations, taking care of their own interests, above all of the security and the famous traditions of Serbia and its people. With that in mind, I kind of based on two basic agreements. The first concerns this military-technical co-operation with the Republic of Belarus, extremely important. I think it is clear to all Serbia how important this agreement is. Namely, respected Serbian citizens, it is about modernisation, a system that has been systematically destroyed in Serbia for more than a decade, especially in the period until 2012. Modernisation, remonting, purchase of arms and equipment has been launched, but the agreement certainly provides for both training and training of personnel in the Serbian Army, a very important area defined by this agreement, as well as much more in this agreement. This agreement is only part of the development of the overall bilateral relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus and, of course, it is aimed at preserving peace and security and one and the other countries, respecting everything that is internal regulations and legal solutions in both countries. However, comparisons work, so-called. By reforming and modernising our army from the day they set fire to this respectable home, and having reached its peak in the period from 2003 to 2007, I must simply make a comparison, reminding Serbia that hundreds of tanks and other armored vehicles in Serbia's army were sold, destroyed, drowned, and it is clear what kind of monster hit Serbia's defence system during that period. I say close to 800 tanks and armored vehicles in that period were sold out and melted. Pictures are done by, respected citizens, compare this with what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing today, headed by the prime minister, trying and creating a serious system, a system in the region, and all in order to preserve security and peace, after all. As regards the second agreement, Honorable Minister Vulin, one really important thing – an agreement with the Czech Republic on the preservation, preservation and maintenance of our military graves in the Czech Republic. I hope, in some future period, and keeping graves all over the world. Of course this is the first government and you are the first ministry to take this approach seriously, headed by Prime Minister Vukic. Unfortunately, Serbia's military graves around Europe and the world are not missing, and there are many of them, but we are one of the few people who can be proud of every place of death and every military grave in Europe, anywhere, from any period. I think it's something that only great nations have, even though we're a numerically small people, and that's something that we're jealous of, and this is the right step in that direction. As the real step is what the Government of the Republic of Serbia and your Ministry have done in some previous period, it is clear that for years you have been reversing all significant historical dates in the past of the Serbian people, marking along with the Government of Republika Srpska. As long as you make such decisions and such agreements, be sure to have the support of MPs in this parliament, as well as the support of Serbia's majority, which is the most important. You have seen that as a result of these acts of yours, the support of the government of the Republic of Serbia's policies is growing from election to election. You saw how much support you got in April. In the end, let me add that my smallness, as a folk MP, will, first and foremost, support these two legal solutions, but also the other 19, of course, along with my colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party. I congratulate you and thank you for everything you do for Serbia and its citizens and I advise you to continue in this direction. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17233	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17234	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today I will refer to the proposals for air traffic laws, and to the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the transfer of responsibilities for the provision of air traffic services, which the Republic of Serbia assumes the responsibility to provide services in the part of the airspace of the Republic of Croatia, which is necessary for the safe and efficient flow of air traffic. The Republic of Croatia also assumes the responsibility to provide services in part of the airspace of the Republic of Serbia in the border area, due to safe and efficient take-off or landing at Osijek airport. I will also refer to the proposal for a law confirming the Air Traffic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China. Otherwise, the initiative to conclude this agreement came from the air carrier "Er Serbia". I would point out that "Er Serbia" was declared a leader in the airline market in 2017 by a prestigious airline from the United States, because it surpassed a number of airlines that are much longer on the market than it is. It also came as a reward for the achievements so far, for the introduction of very successful flights, for the strategies developed to distinguish "Er Serbia" from other airlines and to improve its network. What I would particularly point out when I am already on air traffic is the development of the Nis airport, not only for the reasons I am from Nis, but because it is a fruit of the great work of the Serbian and Nis government as a unit of local self-government and mutual co-operation. The business of Nis airport has been promoted by all parameters. Ten new aircraft lines were introduced in the regular passenger air traffic and one line in the cargo air traffic. Also, a number of investment projects have been implemented, the company's debt has been reduced and a significant part of airport equipment has been obtained. If we look at the way Nis Airport operated from 1986 to today, we can only make significant progress. In 1986, there were almost no passengers. For example, there were no passengers in the period from 2000 to 2003, and in 2016 there were more than 120,000 passengers. As of 1 April 2017, the number of passengers is higher than 60,000, with a trend of growth. As far as the air traffic cargo is concerned, a regular cargo line has been established and I, even during my speech that I had when I passed the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, reminded that thanks to this cargo line Nis-Istanbul, could be translated up to 4,000 tonnes of goods annually, which will make the airport in Nis a regional cargo centre, which Nis, of course, did not have, and Serbian goods will be able to be exported. Also planned is the modernisation of the airport and the extension of the runway, so there is still a chance of developing the economy. I would also remind that Konstantin Veli airport in Nis is growing in category 4, and category 4 includes airports with up to five million passengers per year. Large plans by the Serbian government are expressed for the Nis airport, with the number of passengers rising by about 650 thousand passengers by 2021 and carrying more than 5,000 tonnes of goods by 2021. Serbia's government continues at a strong pace to work on laws that improve the quality of life of Serbian citizens. Serbia has become an air traffic hub for the entire region, as the prime minister said in his exposé it would happen. In the end, why support the proposals that are ahead and come from the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure? The regulations that have been amended are now in line with the requirements and in line with European regulations. A set of laws have been passed that regulate the area of traffic, and thus air traffic. More than 30 air traffic agreements have been signed and ratified, which is twice as much as between 2000 and 2013. For the first time, a strategy for transporting dangerous goods has been developed, transport control has been improved and general security has been raised. The great work of this ministry and government in general can be spoken for a very long time, but here, and because of what I have now outlined in short lines, I am somewhere giving myself the right to invite fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to support these proposals that are before us today and have arrived from the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17235	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17236	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today's agenda reminds us of the spring storage of the pantry. As if the drawers had been cleaned, the different draft laws on the validation of various agreements, it is also evident from the presence of ministers that different areas, different topics, different time periods are in place when the agreements are concluded. When these proposals are read, it can indeed be realized that there are very few good agreements here, that there are absolutely unnecessary but that there are both bad and harmful for the state of Serbia. It would've been good if you'd put them down, at least in one five, but at best, in three groups, so we could have a little more comfortable discussing it. It would also be good if this session started yesterday, if then we had the chance to talk to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia at four o'clock, since it was the last Thursday of the month, to ask him a question. I don't think he's very happy that you denied him that opportunity. But now what's there is, the agenda we've got, you've put together incompatible, so we're going to do it as far as possible for this time as we can. The law confirming the Agreement amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on international road traffic, as regards the SRS, is acceptable, because since we have been in place, we have been in favour of co-operation with Russia and it is indeed justified, in its explanation that the agreement between these two governments entered into force on 9 December 2011, that it has arranged to carry out road traffic and the Government claims, I no longer know which one of you is the representative of which bill, mostly the government claims that the exchanged contingents of transport of things between Serbia and Russia did not satisfy the needs of the Serbian transport economy. If that's the case, and there's no reason why we shouldn't believe it, then it's good for a lot of reasons. It's good because we have a better exchange and a bigger exchange with the Russian Federation, and the SRS will always support something like that, but also draw attention to you that you can always do better and more, to abandon the EU, let's slowly, at least a little bit at least, and finally define yourself, and because of Serbia, for co-operation with the Russian Federation, then we'll talk another way. This is an agreement that we think Serbian radicals are good and necessary, but we also think we need more agreements with the Russian Federation, on a variety of grounds, because without that co-operation, it is hard for us to believe, and it is how it feels. We have a law confirming the Agreement establishing the Regional Office for Youth Cooperation with the Statute of the Regional Office, this is something that should not have been found on the agenda. You know, you guys under this firm and some pro-European fantasies, now Regional Youth Cooperation Office, so I guess we should all be thrilled what you've accomplished. You have achieved this and you are telling us – the goals you want to achieve, what you will adopt, are reconciliation, mobility, diversity, democratic values, active civic participation and intercultural education. What will young people from Serbia do in this? Who are they going to make peace with and for what? What did the young Serbians do to someone, that they should be at peace with someone? But the agreement was signed, and you wrote the AP Kosovo and Metohija, unfortunately, we all know it's a false state of Kosovo. That's why we shouldn't have been part of this anymore. This proposal establishes a Regional Office for Youth Cooperation, based in Tirana. Minister Widow, I assume this is your part, I can no longer grasp what is in charge of these proposals. This is a bad proposal, and it has no support from the SRS, and aside from this, it costs 389 thousand euros. The fact that some of our young people are going to leave for Tirana, where they have absolutely no reason to go, believe me, it's going to cost so much. This Agreement, i.e. the law on the confirmation of the agreement, is unnecessary and bad. We have a bill confirming the agreement between the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the Government of Montenegro, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of Balkan military forces. This is also absolutely unnecessary. Because this co-operation can't exist in practice, unfortunately, and it's not our fault that it can't. We are witnessing that the current government in Serbia is constantly turning the other cheek, they are insulting, undermining, what they are not referring to Serbia, Serbia is not responding. You have such a policy, at this point, we do not interfere, but do not blur the eyes of the public, and I suppose this EU of yours, which should impress you that you will conclude this Agreement, which absolutely means nothing. Nor can we trust these countries in any, God forbid, a war situation, and how could we if they were the ones who would attack Serbia on all sides? The bill here states that the implementation of this Agreement requires financial resources and that it costs us nine million and 450 thousand dinars. We have a yearly cost of 12 million, a million and a half, 12 thousand euros, a million and a half a year, etc. And not for the misery of all these costs, if this were some kind of collaboration that would have an effect and that would make sense. We can't, remember the government's gentlemen, have friendly co-operation with Croatia, which occupied the Republic of Serbia, or with Albania that has claims on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, or with Bosnia and Herzegovina, who wants to drown Republika Srpska, or with Montenegro, as long as this separatist regime is in power, and with Slovenia, no one in Slovenia has ever been responsible for those young soldiers who were killed at the beginning of these last wars, and no one is asking, no one else. So this agreement is no good for you. The Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Serbia and the United Nations on providing contributions to the resources of a multidimensional integrated UN Stabilisation Mission in the Central African Republic, you should say this nicely, a big title, the public, above all, should know that this means sending 68 military personnel to a unit in hospitals in the Central African Republic. The question is raised, which we asked when this was introduced in Serbia, during the Boris Tadic regime, are these people going there voluntarily? Then, in that regime, they claimed to go voluntarily, and then people, names and last names, appeared, claiming that they were conditioned, if they did not go to get notices at work, etc. Minister Djordjevic, this law is no good either. The law confirming the Paris Agreement, who was the one who praised the law, Minister Nedimovic? Minister Nedimovic, this is also not good. Ecology and environmental protection are important, of course. But, you know, under environmental and environmental protection, you get involved where we don't belong, costs are being spent on the state, we said that, and when these Kyoto agreements were recently, when you were. The agreement was adopted by 195 countries, members of the Convention, concluded on 22 September 2016, by 31 countries, etc., but you mentioned and spoke earlier, the aim of the Paris Conference was to reach agreement and adoption of a new legally binding document, which will define the obligations of the Member States of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change for the period after 2020 and thus prevent temperature growth, etc. Unfortunately, we are not an industrially developed country so that we can in any way influence these climate change. I wish we were, where I wish we were a developed country, so we could get involved in this world-wide business. There's no point in this, we'll just have expenses, nothing we can do to help, nor can we reduce or increase the temperature. We just don't have any effect on it. Law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the protection of war graves and military memorials. This is an agreement that is acceptable and we don't have any particular objections, let's just start taking care of our own memories and our victims through history whenever they happen. So we don't mind this agreement. The law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus in co-operation in the field of tourism. We absolutely support any co-operation with Belarus, as well as Russia. We have thank God we in the tourist offer many things untapped, Minister Ljajic is not there, perhaps he would have some answer to this question. So, much untapped and should be used, not only in co-operation with Belarus, but in general, but every form of co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Belarus is something that we support as this next Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on military-technical co-operation. Minister Djordjevic's agreement should be supported, but we would be much happier with you offering us an agreement for the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre, to resolve this important issue. We need to give all the benefits to that Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre, at least as much as you gave NATO, and those before you and you. So, we support co-operation with Belarus in military-technical co-operation, as well as other visions, and here we remind you, we hope that we will have an answer to this question since this is mentioned in the media, but you really should deal with this Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre and grant them immunity, I said at least as you were assigned to NATO soldiers. Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the transfer of responsibilities for the provision of air traffic services. He spoke to his colleague Mircic earlier on. So this doesn't have our support, Croatia owes us the whole of the Republic of Serbia and can hardly cooperate with them. The law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Germany was carried out in the paid work of family members, members of the Diplomatic and Consular Representation, has with several states, has the same proposal, and we do not think that this really is necessary, who are representatives of the Diplomatic and Consular Representatives, whose family members need to work in the country they go to. This is something, who knows who they intend to bring in, it shouldn't be supported, and we Serbian radicals won't support it. We now have one group of laws confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so there is the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic, Portugal, Thailand, Iraq. It's about abolishing visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports. It's not bad to lift visas, but there's no use in this, because all holders of diplomatic passports have never had a problem traveling or crossing borders in these countries. If there is a problem with visas, then there is a problem for citizens who travel with a simple passport. This may be some first step towards a complete visa waiver, but it wasn't necessary in this spring save, it wasn't the head of what our people would say, that we are now dealing with this kind of traffic from the draft agreement. Let's see if there are any other agreements left, the Law on Confirmation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong on air traffic and the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on Co-operation in the area of defence. This second law states that the proposal establishes models of co-operation, imagine, which is why we pass the law. It is about models of co-operation of defence ministers, chief of staff, joint visits by armed forces delegations, visits by experts, organisations and training and military exercises. So, Minister Djordjevic, without this law, you could visit Slovakia, right? What do you need the law to regulate that the minister has the right to go to some state or chief of staff, etc. So this law is also not necessary. He doesn't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17237	Thank you. You've spent your time with your MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17238	Thank you. I'm just asking you to finish one sentence. There are agreements concerning Russia and Belarus that have our support and these others will be without the support of Serbian radicals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17239	Thank you. The next speaker, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17240	Thank you, Chairman. Gentlemen Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, citizens of Serbia, today we have a whole set of laws, 21 legislative proposals on the agenda. I would say that each of the 21 legislative proposals on confirming the agreement is good, comprehensive, that it concerns more to say, the sphere of society in which something needs to be done and that's good. The agreements I want to look back on in my presentation are in the first place an Agreement establishing a regional office for youth co-operation. It is also said in the Serbian Parliament and in the public of Serbia why we need to have one such office, why money is spent on young people, on conversations, on travel, on exchanges, on learning, on meeting young people. Well, all the misfortunes, all the evils, say the people, come out of ignorance. The less you know about someone, the less you know about something, the more you're afraid of it, and the more fear it's between people. There is no dilemma in the congregation or in the public. If the young are the future of our country and this region and if they need us to leave a healthy foundation on which they will continue to build our Balkan house, then we should do something for them, which we are dealing with politics today and set up this regional office for the co-operation of young people for communication, for the development of their experiences, for them to learn first and foremost where they will learn to understand each other, to understand their own needs, to understand the differences, to understand each other's languages, to understand history and culture. If we do not, we will face some accidents in the Western Balkans region again in a few decades. We must not allow every generation in the Balkans to be a war generation, that every generation goes through an accident, and every time it talks about reconciliation, about co-operation, about the establishment of some offices. Now that we have established this office, when we confirm the agreement, we need to move forward, continue to build the foundations of peace and stability in the Western Balkans. If there's no communication, no dating, no investment, no better life, no development, no economy, no future in this space. Then who's going to live here? Who are we going to live with? We can't like horns in a bag to wait for 2020, 2030, 2040 and every time we tell one of those same stories. Co-operation among young people is the future and an absolutely this kind of agreement has my support and support for the public of Serbia. The second thing I want to talk about is a deal that keeps the military cemetery safe, which keeps military monuments in mind. If we don't have a past and we don't remember it, if we don't have a history, then we don't have a future. Here, these are the two agreements that seem to have nothing to do with it, but the future and the past have. We must remember those who died for this country, those who left their bones all over Europe and the world in order to have peace, so that we could live together, decent and normal. That is why absolute support for these two agreements that I wanted to talk about today and the absolute support of the government of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17241	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17242	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, today, I will talk about the proposal for a bill to confirm the establishment of a regional youth co-operation office with the organisation's statute. The reminders work, within the Western Balkans summit, which was in Paris on 4 July 2016, when a formal and signed agreement on the establishment of a regional office for youth co-operation was initiated by Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, and his proposal was accepted by Albanian Prime Minister Mr Rama. They jointly initiated the establishment of such an office by leaders of Western Balkan countries. The goal of establishing this office is primarily to connect young people from the neighborhood. It is necessary to connect young Western Balkans, it is necessary to give them the opportunity to connect by establishing projects, projects in the fields of education, sports, culture, in order to compete together either through NGOs or through official institutions from countries from which they come. Reminders are being made, one of these offices existed after World War II between France and Germany, the Youth Office which was established long ago in 1963 under the Jessesian Treaty on Friendship between France and Germany. Practice has shown that student exchanges have just played a key role in overcoming the impatience between the two countries that have fought the most throughout history. Student exchanges have just contributed to the healing of those postwar wounds and the establishment of a process of reconciliation and co-operation. I would also like to say further that there is indeed a statute, but also an agreement in front of all the MPs in the smallest detail envisioned all possible situations, such as what is the mandate of this office, which are key bodies operating within this regional office, but also what is the budget available to this office. The budget is 2m euros for a three-year period, for each year, with the addition of signatories such that Serbia is the largest contributor with 38.9%, while Montenegro is the smallest with 4.4%. The bodies established and to contribute better to the work of this regional office are the board of directors, the secretariat, the headquarters of this office located in Tirana, then the advisory board and many working groups. Remembrances, in every country, signatories will be formed and local offices. What will the work of this regional office actually contribute to? Practice has shown that the problems of young people are the same or similar, regardless of which countries in the Western Balkans came from. But youth problems are primarily about unemployment, then insufficient mobility, lack of recognition of diplomas. Similar agreements will help solve these problems in a better and faster way. So far, practice has just shown that the mobility of young people and the ability to listen to each other, to sit at the same table will actually help solve the socio-political problems that exist in the Western Balkans region, but also simply overcome the war past's currents from the past decades. The regional office's contribution is heading towards a reconciliation process, greater mobility among young people, strengthening peace and stability in the region while eliminating additional ethnic and religious prejudices and stereotypes in the countries of the region. I also want to tell you that the establishment of the regional office is actually part of the start-up Berlin process, that the results of the Berlin process, initiated by German Chancellor Angela Merkel, actually contributes to having concrete results. Recently, the National Assembly adopted an Agreement establishing a Fund for the Western Balkans. Then we can connect people with bridges, stripes and highways. One part of the Berlin process is to continue to regional integration and strengthening infrastructure projects. Project documentation is under way for the construction of the Nis-Pristina-Drac highway, which will connect Corridors 10 and 7 and will connect these corridors with Albanian ports, but also with the construction of the Kralje-Rudnice-Pristina-Skoplje railway. So, these and similar projects will actually help us to have constant contacts among the leaders of the Western Balkans, among the citizens living in these countries, but we will also sit down at the same table, we will better understand each other, respect each other, and thus there will be a reduction of tension in the overall space. I would take the opportunity to invite all young people from Belgrade, Pristina, Sarajevo, Tirana, Skopje and Podgorica to actively network and engage in the work of the Regional Office through their NGOs, through their local offices in the signatories countries from which they come through their official institutions. Also, I would like to take this opportunity and invite all my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, because this agreement and these 21 agreements that are on the agenda really have nothing to do with politics, let's show that we are solid, let's leave our party uniforms aside today or until the voting day and support the adoption of these and similar agreements in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17243	Thank you. The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17244	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, today very important agreements are on the agenda ahead of us from the field of defence, in the field of traffic, foreign affairs, but I will specifically refer to one agreement, and very briefly, thinking that no one will mention it, that they will not talk about it, but I am glad that today a large number of MPs have just referred to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. Why do I want to highlight the importance of this agreement and the climate change itself and the environmental protection area itself? By the time the government of Alexander Vukic arrived in 2014, this was the most problematic area, just the opening of chapter 27, primarily because a number of problems were left behind and a large investment in money was left to us at the time, and it seemed like we couldn't reach those figures. Thanks to serious work and the government of Aleksandr Vukic and this ministry in charge of environmental protection, Serbia today is the only candidate country for membership that has received the opening of Chapter 27 without conditions. It is, of course, a great reward for the hard work of this ministry and the complete government. I would also point out that the Green Fund has been established as a sustainable national project financing system. It should be noted that in this year, there has been an increase in environmental fees by as much as 50%, which means that around 10 billion dinars will enter the Republic of Serbia's budget on this basis. There are grants for many projects, therefore, from the area of wastewater treatment, construction of a treatment plant, water, dumps. With about six billion dinars, the government of Alexander Vukic helped and subsidized the recycling industry. What is very important in this area is cross-border and international co-operation. As for climate change itself, therefore, Serbia has a strategy. As for the Ministry, therefore, the Ministry has a clear strategy and all of this is passed on to local self-government, therefore, from the projects themselves of energy efficiency, changing fossil fuels with alternatives, using renewable energy sources and many other solutions. So Serbia is taking a firm step towards opening Chapter 27 and this is a great credit for the work of the government of Aleksandr Vukic and the Ministry of Environmental Protection. So, first of all, this agreement encourages us to reduce gas emissions and I couldn't agree with my colleague that Serbia can't do anything about it. Of course, every single person can, because every local action regarding environmental protection gives global effects. So, it obliges us to reduce gas, also to sustainable use of forests, which is not only important in terms of climate change itself, but as we have recently, unfortunately, experience with floods, it will make it easier to fight both floods and erosions and, as the respected minister said, the most important thing for us to do is to open funds, so it opens up financial resources, international aid, and that is what will contribute to making the Republic of Serbia's budget full on this basis and that, of course, we solve both our problems and environmental protection. Of course, I will support all other agreements, as well as all my colleagues, in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17245	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17246	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, we are facing today a set of agreements from different segments of society, but what is significant is that all these agreements contribute to establishing good co-operation, good bilateral relations between the Republic of Serbia and other countries. But these agreements and how they affect economic growth and development in different segments, for example, in our country's defence segment, then in the segment of traffic, both rail, air and road traffic, but today we have agreements concerning the past. Countries that do not pay attention to their past have neither their present nor their own future. This government is ultimately responsible for its past, for those who gave their lives for Serbia's freedom, who lost their lives as fighters at other battlefields, either as fighters or as prisoners of war. That is why I would first like to welcome the agreement signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia with the Government of the Czech Republic, which concerns the protection of war graves and military memorials. Of course, this agreement is based on the principles of international humanitarian law, on the principles of the Geneva Convention on the Protection of Victims of War of 1949, but what I particularly wish to point out is the way of co-operation provided for in this Agreement. Namely, all those fighters who died in over 40 countries in Europe have the right not to be nameless, have the right to have their own name and name. It is precisely this agreement, as a means of co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Czech Republic, that a list of all Serbian victims and all Czech victims will be established. It is very important that we also know that with due attention we are referring to the name and last name of all those who gave their lives for Serbia's freedom and honor. What I also want to say is that this agreement, so that not only remains a dead letter on paper, is also intended to form a joint commission that will also take care of the implementation of this agreement. That this government is responsible for its past and for its victims, and that information is also provided by the 2017 budget for the 28th Ministry of Labour, Combat and Social Affairs, and the programme's activities of fighting and disability protection are provided for funds precisely for the preservation of war monuments and memorial centres, and for 2017, of course, the budget will also continue to provide for funding for 2018. What I also want to point out as a very important agreement, it is an agreement on military-technical co-operation between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Belarus. Why do I want to highlight this agreement? Because co-operation in the area of defence and how important it is from a military aspect, but also from the aspect of our country's economic development. Why? Because this agreement also provides for military-technical cooperation in arms and military equipment, as well as military-technical co-operation with regard to the modernisation of those companies involved in arms and military equipment. We know that the dedicated industry is and how a significant driver of the economic development of the Republic of Serbia and by investing in the dedicated industry is, in fact, directly affecting the gross social product and Serbia's economic progress. The agreement is also important in terms of exchange of experts and training of experts, both from the Republic of Serbia and Belarus, transfer of knowledge, transfer of experience. From the aspect of experience, scientific and technical knowledge and from the aspect of the implementation of joint projects between the Republic of Serbia and Belarus, this project is important, of course, and all other agreements in the area of traffic. Traffic can also affect the economic growth and economic development of the Republic of Serbia. All agreements concerning both air and road traffic, as well as the national programme for rail infrastructure, and that they have importance for the country's economic progress. In the day of the vote, we will vote on all the proposed agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17247	Thank you. The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17248	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected ministers and respected citizens, also finds the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on co-operation in the field of tourism on the agenda today. Among the two governments, bilateral relations in this area are traditionally good, however, this agreement will significantly improve the co-operation of the two countries. The results of tourism traffic so far are not at an expected level, when we observe available tourist opportunities. There is no organised performance and promotion of our tourist offer for potential tourists from the Republic of Belarus. I can freely say that the initiative behind this agreement came from the Republic of Belarus, which is quite understandable, given our offer of mountainous centres visit, then Banish sites and a special programme relating to Serbia's religious tourism. The agreement sets out specific forms of co-operation of interest and importance for the development of tourism in both countries, in order to further develop tourism exchange on the principle of mutual benefit. It also envisions encouraging co-operation between state administration authorities in the field of tourism, as well as expanding co-operation between tourism operators, including those investing in the area of tourism. Furthermore, both sides are expected to seek to simplify border and other formalities related to tourism exchange and to facilitate the exchange of information on the development of the tourism market, as well as participation in international fairs. What is also important, and covered by this agreement, is encouraging mutual co-operation within the framework of membership in the World Tourism Organisation. What is also important, and covered by this agreement, is encouraging mutual co-operation within the framework of membership in the World Tourism Organisation. Article 7 provides for another important thing, which is the co-operation of educational institutions that prepare staff to work in the field of tourism, all with the aim of improving services. So, one complete agreement that determines each party's competent authorities to monitor the realisation of the agreement itself. These agreements are another element in the overall economic co-operation between the countries, and may this be an invitation for other tourism entities to seek to expand this type of co-operation to as many countries as possible. The following year, i.e. 2018, 40 jubilee international tourism fairs will be held in Belgrade, which certainly gives the possibility for more such agreements. Of course, in voting day, I ask my colleagues to accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17249	Thank you. The People's Messenger Stanislav Janosevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17250	I thank the chairman. Dear representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I am reporting on the basis of a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on international road traffic. I'd like to take a closer look at this subject by respecting your time. Therefore, road traffic with the Russian Federation has been arranged under the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation. It is foreseen that this agreement, both bilateral and transit transport, is carried out on the basis of authorisations issued by the competent authorities. As every year, without compensation, they agree with each other by the number of license forms. However, I must stress that the exchanged contingents of permits were not enough, did not meet the needs, not even the Serbian transit economy. We needed bigger ones here, we made a more liberal proposal here on transit of goods, which the Russians accepted and will greatly improve trade and economic co-operation between Serbia and Russia. We all understand that, of what crucial importance it is, because we are certainly foreign trade partners. In addition to these major projects, we have witnessed that as it is done on Corridor 10, on highways and railways, in addition to these large projects, I would refer to something less. I can tell you the most from the middle where I come from. First of all, the city of Zrenjin. Currently in Zrenjanin, local roads are being built in several places in the city itself, which is what my fellow citizens are most looking forward to, and we are thus showing great responsibility and Zrenjanin's local self-government confirms what she said during the campaign itself, so we are doing and continuing, and the campaign is not under way. I'm extremely proud of that. I'm not sure that's what our predecessors were able to do. What is vital for the Mediterranean County and my city, above all for students, auto carriers, but generally for transit is, that is, they were working on the road of the First B Order of Novi Sad-Zrenjanin, near the Zabalje intersection towards Zrenjanin, which was visited by Minister Knezevic and Minister Mihajlovic in the first days of their development. Minister Knezevic pointed out the importance of building this time, because it simply points to improving the economic environment and making the quality of our citizens' lives better. I'm extremely sorry that right now, there are no more representatives and MPs in this room from the opposition, simply, whenever my colleagues and I talk, they smile at some of that. I have to admit, I don't see a wink in it at all, because he's not above all, I see a gesture that symbolizes joy. Finally, someone like the current Government of the Republic of Serbia has caved in to do something so good and not only worked, but will always work in the interest of their people. I will always support such bill proposals, as well as a set of those who will be on the agenda on the voting day for what I call for and all my colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17251	Thank you. The People's Messenger Blaža Knezevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17252	I would like to thank the chairman, respected ministers, honourable MPs, today I will talk about the national public railway infrastructure programme for the period from 2017 to 2021. Today, the most significant strategic document is the construction of reconstruction and maintenance of railway infrastructure. The document covers the period from 2017 to 2021, and this is the first time that a five-year public railway infrastructure programme and one of the most necessary segments of comprehensive rail sector reform are adopted in the Republic of Serbia. The proposaler plans, above all, to continue and complete the implementation of development projects launched in the previous period. We are all witnessing very concrete projects that are being implemented in rail traffic. Almost every day, we can track progress in this field and we're on a good path after decades, that when someone mentions the railroad, we don't think we have to arm ourselves with patience and everyone else and prepare ourselves for the hour-long delay of trains. The railway is on the best track to be like those in developed countries in Europe. Of course, much more needs to be done and it is very commendable that the proposal depends on the availability of financial resources has ratified and explained in one place development projects, which will significantly increase the safety and efficiency of rail transport. In addition to credit funds from international financial institutions and bilateral arrangements and budgets, major efforts are being made to secure more significant funds from EU funds. In the planning of development projects for the period 2017 to 2021, it was not only economic but also social and ecological aspects. The objectives to be achieved are in line with the real timeframe, i.e. the fact that they can be achieved over a long period of time. In the long term, rail infrastructure on the transport market is planned to offer properties, which represent its greatest comparative values, which is an absolute commitment to security, above all, lower demand for energy and environmental protection. The state of rail infrastructure indicates a decades-long underinvestment in maintaining the infrastructure itself. Given that maintenance cannot be avoided, this resulted in a significant reduction in speed on the most significant stripes. The result is a reduction in the competitiveness of traffic compared to alternative routes, as well as traffic types. Great efforts have been made over the last three years, in order to restore the role that belongs to the railway and certainly there is much more to be done. For these reasons, we have a document that needs to be implemented in order to increase the safety and efficiency of the railway system. Serbia is a transit country and the situation must be exploited. This will also bring money, but also improve citizens' mobility and quality, first of all. One comprehensive plan presented in the document is the alphabet of investments and activities that need to be taken in the next period, when we talk about railways and certainly a good approach that makes it impossible to develop a verse when it comes to railways. Also, if we consider how many kilometers of highways were done, both highways and regional roads. If we have one example of the EPS, which is an outstanding example and which is already a regional leader, as far as air transport is concerned, if we take an example from the airport, which breaks all passenger transport records, then we know that the Government of the Republic of Serbia together with the ministry has taken the right steps to be a real and modern European state, as regards traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17253	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Veljkovic. He's not here. The word has been made by MP Oliver Ognjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17254	I am putting the accent on the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on international road traffic, by concluding the exchange of notes. The operation of road traffic with the Russian Federation was made by the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Russian Federation in international road traffic that entered into force on 9 December 2011. Article 11 of this Agreement provides for the transit of things to be carried out on the basis of which the competent authorities of the parties, which shall, without charge, exchange each year with each other a harmonised number of licences. The exchanged contingents of permits did not meet the needs of the Serbian transport economy. We are all familiar with the “centar permits” that allow trucks to ride European roads without stopping all year round, no matter how many times they enter or leave one country. This is primarily about the liberalisation of these very important trade relations of roadside character. It is good that both sides of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation are seeking relief, including the abolition of the quota and restrictions on imports and exports, i.e. trade in roadways. The restrictions on trade don't do anyone any good, because we live in a global world, where international ties and co-operation are the basis for every country's being together. It certainly is necessary to facilitate transport. The lottery in which the carriers are impatiently and under the great sign of question is in line and hopes that they will be granted permission no one needs it. This branch is crying out for liberalisation. Let's remember the protest of the transporter's driver, the kilometer columns of the unsatisfactory truck. A large number of international carriers from year to year ran out of these benefits. It is important to achieve as strong a relationship with the Russian Federation as one of our most important foreign-trade partners. The conclusion of these agreements will make it easier to carry out transit transport and will improve trade and economic co-operation with the Russian Federation. The competent authority for the implementation of this Agreement shall be the Ministry responsible for traffic operations, which shall be responsible and effective in doing its work. That's why I have no doubt we'll take this opportunity. I absolutely support this and a set of agreements that have been proposed and I urge other colleagues to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17255	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17256	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I will speak of three agreements. The first is a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on military-technical co-operation. First of all, to say that I have the honor and pleasure of being in the Parliament group of friendships with Belarus, which I think is the most beautiful. It is our strategic partner, our certified friend, and what is very important to point out is that it is a very high-quality and cheap remont in this country, and therefore it is necessary to sign these agreements. This was done by our Minister Djordjevic in January of this year and not only that, it was an agreement on the great satisfaction of the Republic of Serbia. It's a country that's been checked out by a friend and needs to develop and continue to sign agreements, because that's how we strengthen bilateral co-operation, which is extremely important. In this case, Belarus has much to offer from military-technical co-operation. Namely, what happened? It's a country with huge potential that we can learn a lot from. This agreement gives us a legal framework where we can exchange projects, send experts from one country to another, deal with technology in the biggest and best way. What should be pointed out more about our wonderful co-operation and bilateral relations are also the exercises that have been held three years ago. Last year we had the honor and pleasure of having a joint exercise called the "Slovenian Brotherhood 2017" in our country. This year it will be in June of Belarus and all congratulations on that. In fact, these exercises are being performed and just to educate the army, and all for fighting terrorism. Well done, and we continue this cooperation. The second agreement, signed by Mr. Ljajic as tourism minister, which is very important and we really have outstanding potential. The Republic of Serbia is an extremely beautiful country with huge potential. We can offer Banish tourism, then health tourism, sports tourism, mountain tourism, city tours, absolutely everything. I'm happy about that, and I'm sure I'll support both of these laws in the voting day. What I would like to emphasise is the proposal for a bill to confirm the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports, because I am the president of the Friendship Group with this beautiful country and, most importantly, should point out that we, as far as destinations are concerned, and thus a close and friendly country recognises the integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Well done, they're true friends, and that's loyalty, and that's what bilateral relations are based on. I'm sure one day I'll visit this beautiful country for us, but far away. What is yet to be pointed out is that indeed, not only are we MPs but the entire government is all in favour of good relations with this country, and this has been confirmed because a remote country has started investing in the country's economy and economy and the first factory, namely the Indo Duff factory in India, has been created, which is the world's largest producer. Well done. In voting day, I will support all the proposals of these laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-26-0.u17257	Thank you. Does anyone want to exploit their right to Article 96? The Rules of Procedure, and he didn't use it? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 to 21 of the agenda. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 29 May 2017, starting at 11.00 a.m. as the day for voting on the agendas of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 108 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please insert your identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 137 MPs are present in the hall and that we have working conditions. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from being attended by MPs: Borisav Kovacevic, Gordana Komic and Meso Omerovic. We're moving on to a decision. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations on the provision of contributions to resources of a multidimensional integrated mission of the United Nations for Stabilisation in the Central African Republic (MINUSCA), in general. I conclude the vote: for – 141 versus – no one, with abstentions, has. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, the Government of Montenegro, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the establishment of Balkan military forces, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 136, against – 18, with abstentions – there are no, there are no votes of eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on military-technical co-operation, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 160, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted one MP. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Slovak Republic on co-operation in the area of defence, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 139, against – no one, abstentioned – three, voted 20 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Czech Republic on the protection of war graves and military memorials, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 143 against – no one with abstentions – has voted 19 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision on the National Public Railway Infrastructure Programme for the period from 2017 to 2021, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 140, against – no one, with abstention – four, voted 19 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision on the National Public Railway Infrastructure Programme for the period 2017 to 2021. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on international road traffic, concluded by the exchange of notes, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 163 versus – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China on air traffic, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 163 versus – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the transfer of responsibilities for the provision of air traffic services in general. I conclude the vote: for – 141, v – 21, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Status and Functions of the International Commission for Missing Persons, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 141 against – no one, with abstention – two, voted 20 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement establishing the Regional Office for Youth Cooperation, with the Statute of the Regional Office for Youth Cooperation, in general. I conclude the vote: four MPs did not vote for – 138, against – 21, with abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the exercise of the paid activity of members of the family of members of the diplomatic or consular representation, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 141 against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted 20 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of France on the exercise of paid employment of members of the family of members of the official representations of the two states, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 141 against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted 20 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Portugal on the employment of members of the family of diplomatic and consular staff, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 141 against – no one, abstentioned – three, voted 19 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 163 versus – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Iraq on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, in general. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 162 against. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports, in general. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 162 against. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 163 versus – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Guatemala on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 163 versus – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I'm putting to the vote a bill confirming the Paris Agreement, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 141, v – two, abstention – one, 19 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on co-operation in the field of tourism, in general. I conclude the vote: no one, the abstentioned one, voted for – 160, no three MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. We're moving on to Rules of Procedure's injuries. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 26 May 2017, at 15 hours and 45 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 86. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on this breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote: for—19, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Goran Ciric, at a session on 26 May 2017, at 15 o'clock and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 154. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on this breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 26 May 2017, at 15 hours and 55 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 27 and 88. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on this breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote: for—19, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members are not injured. National MP Zoran Zivkovic, at a session on 26 May 2017, at 15 hours and 57 minutes, pointed to the violation of members 104 and 107. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on this breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members are not injured. (Marian Risticevic: Six is against it. After my findings, but good. I conclude the vote: there is no one, against six, with abstentions. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 26 May 2017, at 16 hours and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of members 27 and 153. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on this breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote: for—19, against—no one, with abstentions, voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members are not injured. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the fifth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Given that we completed this first regular meeting of the National Assembly in 2017, I would like to now listen to the state anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Intonation of the anthem. This is where we finished our session. Thank you.
