ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-17-0.u18551	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening the 10th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. As you know, I have called this special session to address the National Assembly of Njeg's Excellency, Mr. Djang Dejiang, president of the Permanent Committee of the People's Republic of China's National Congress. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the National Assembly and on behalf of myself, Mr Djang Dejiang's Excellency, as well as the other members of the National Republic of China delegation. I also welcome the members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Secretary-General of the President of the Republic of Serbia, as well as representatives of the diplomatic crust in the Republic of Serbia. Now I ask His Excellency, Mr. Djang Dejiang, to take his word and address us. Here you go. Here you go, Excellency.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-17-0.u18552	Dear Madam President of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic and esteemed MPs of the National Assembly of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, good afternoon. I'm very glad that on my official friendly visit, I have the opportunity to see friends of the National Assembly of Serbia. The Serbian proverb says – they are more worth small friends than their own brother. When I come to Serbia, to see you, old and new friends, I feel immeasurable closeness, as if I were visiting relatives. On this occasion, allow me to express my sincerest gratitude and in particular respect for the National Assembly of Serbia and all friends, MPs who consistently advocate the friendship of Serbia and China, on behalf of the People's National Congress and the People of China. Also, through you, a sincere friendly greeting and the best wishes to the people of Serbia. The Chinese proverb says – it is worth seeing once than 100 times. This is my first visit to Serbia, when I am in this magnificent building of the House of the National Assembly, a building over 110 years older, I feel more tangible sadness and a diverse history of Serbia full of legends. The Danube River and the Sava River, which have been flowing for thousands of years, have been fed by the hardworking and courageous Serbian people. Civilizations of the East and the West meet and integrate here and create important achievements of humanity. In a struggle for the independence of the people to preserve the sovereignty of the state for a happier life, the Serbian people sought and explored, overcoming difficulties with a painful but unwavering record of their history, many earthquake stories and beautiful poetry. Nobel laureate Ivo Andric and the father of alternating current Nikola Tesla made outstanding contributions to the progress of humanity's civilization. They are not only the pride of Serbia but all the peoples of the world. In recent years, Serbia has actively explored the path of development that corresponds to its situation, is undertaking economic development, improves citizens' living standards, preserves regional stability and achieves amazing results. Recently, when President Aleksandar Vukic took office, he said Serbia would provide a better and more dignified life for its citizens. Such a heart of the Balkans now radiates new vitality from day to day, as a sincere friend and a reliable partner of Serbia, the Chinese people look forward to the development and progress of the people of Serbia, and so wants Serbia to continuously achieve even greater successes in building the state. Friends in diswill are known as gold in the fire, friendship between China and Serbia has a long history, the peoples of the two countries cherish each other's special emotional ties and feelings. As early as World War II, the Chinese people and the peoples of Yugoslavia courageously fought against the aggression of fascists, at the same time on the eastern and western front and suffered a huge sacrifice, made important contributions. In 1955, China has officially established diplomatic relations with the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. This opens a new page of friendly co-operation between the two countries and their peoples. At the beginning of reforms and the opening of China to the world, the successful development practices and experiences of the people of Serbia were a valuable role model for China's development. We will never forget when a major earthquake in Venchuan hit China in 2008, Serbia was the first to provide assistance and provide extensive material for the recovery of natural disasters. In 2014, when a huge flood hit Serbia's Chinese people, it shared the same feeling and also helped in a timely manner within its power. From year to year, the friendship between China and Serbia radiates a new vitality from the old tradition of depth and the breadth of our relations is constantly increasing. The mutual political trust between China and Serbia is constantly deepening. Serbia is the first country to establish a comprehensive strategic partnership with China in the region of Central and Eastern Europe. In 2013, China President Si Djindjic and Serbian President Nikolic signed a joint declaration on the deepening of the Chinese and Serbian strategic partnership and thus our bilateral relations entered the fast track of development. In 2016, when President Si Jinping visited Serbia, the leaders of the two countries together decided to raise our relations to the level of a comprehensive strategic partnership, which is precedentd at the level of China's bilateral relations with Central and Eastern European countries. This opened a new historical chapter of friendly co-operation between China and Serbia. This year, President Nikolic and President Vukic visited China in a row, and President Si Djindjic had friendly meetings with them and reached important consensus on further deepening of traditional friendship and mutual strategic trust. Bilateral co-operation mechanisms such as the Economic and Trade Mixed Committee, the Working Group for Co-operation of Production Capacity, etc., function well, while bilateral trade and investment is in rapid expansion. Co-operation in areas of production capacity, telecommunications, infrastructure building, etc. are in constant swing. In 2016, the volume of bilateral trade in China and Serbia amounted to $590,000,000 with an increase of 8.2% and the growth of bilateral trade in the first four months of this year has even exceeded 20% and China has become Serbia's largest trading partner in the Asia region. The Danube Bridge, which is called the China-Serbia Friendship Bridge, is the first bridge the Chinese company has built in Europe. A number of important projects, such as the Belgrade-Budapest railway, shares of the E763, TE Kostolac highway, etc., have been successfully realised and have become role models and pilot projects in the co-operation of China and the Central and Eastern European countries. Cultural exchange between China and Serbia is diverse and rich. Old Yugoslav films, such as "Walter defends Sarajevo", "Most", once won the sympathy and worship of countless Chinese viewers. Today, the song "A Bela, Hi" is also widely sung in China. The Chinese film "Memory from South Beijing" won the Best Film Ideas Award at the 14th Children's Festival, a film festival in Belgrade. In recent years, the two sides have set up a series of cooperation mechanisms in the fields of culture, education, science and technology, etc. Last June, the presidents of the two countries personally laid the cornerstone for the Chinese Cultural Centre in Belgrade. Known cultural brands such as Happy Spring, Seven Chinese Films in Belgrade, etc. They found a good audience with the people. The Confucius Institute in Belgrade, Novi Sad, has been established and more than 100 primary schools in Serbia have been taught Chinese. On 15 January 2017, the Agreement on the mutual suspension of visas for holders of ordinary passports entered into force. Serbia has become the first country in the region of Central and Eastern Europe to achieve full visa liberalisation with China. The key reason for the developmental leap and rich achievements achieved in the friendly relations between China and Serbia lies because the two sides consistently respect and support each other and always adhere to the principles of common development and friendship that lasts for generations. During this visit to Serbia, I expect to exchange my views in detail with your country's leaders and friends of all Serbia's social circles and continue to intensify the friendly exchange between the two sides' legislative authorities and encourage a stable and long-term development of our bilateral relations towards an even better future. Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, the Chinese people, with more than 5,000 years of cultural history, have made outstanding contributions to all mankind. When we enter modern history thanks to the external aggression of Western forces, China gradually became a semi-feeding and semi-colonial society. The people are in incredible trouble and trouble. In 1949 when new China was founded, China's GDP amounted to only 18.9 billion dollars, i.e. $35 per capita was one of the poorest countries in the world. In the last 67 years, especially 30 years since the reform and opening to the world, China has achieved amazing successes. Since the 18th plenary session of the Svekine National Congress in 2012, the Central Committee of the KP of China with Si Ji Ping, uniting the peoples of China, has been all-inclusively improving the general developmental position called "five in one", that is, economic, political, cultural, social and ecological construction of the country and the strategic setting called "four versatile", that is, the versatile building of a wealthy society, the versatile deepening of reforms, the universal governance of the state, the rule of law and the universally strict leadership of the party. It actively promotes innovative co-ordinated, green, open and common development of the country. The social-economic development of China has achieved new successes. Commission Implementing Regulation China's GDP amounted to $11.2 billion, with more than $8000 per capita per capita. The international community highly appreciates and admires China's developmental success. Many friends from other countries are very interested in development concepts, in the developmental path and developmental modality of China and often ask me about the reason for the accelerated development and progress of China, and my answer to that question will be three points. First of all, stick to the leadership of the Communist Party of China. The Communist Party of China was born at a time when Chinese people face problems from both sides and inside and is in an unprecedented social crisis. Ninety-six years since the founding of the KP China has been developing from fifty members at the beginning to the current 89 million members and has long been in power of a large country with a population of more than a billion and 300 million Chinese. The Communist Party of China, uniting the entire Chinese people, overcoming difficulties and problems, has created an unprecedented development miracle in the history of mankind and has made a magnificent and historic contribution to the Chinese nation. Therefore, in insisting on China's leading post, China lies the root reason for China's development, interest and happiness in the people and peoples of China. Secondly, stick to the path of socialism with Chinese characteristics. Starting with the domestic situation and practices and wisdom from the old Chinese civilization, taking advantage and the strong side of east and west, China has found its way of development that suits it. We insist on our own, but we're not cruel, we learn from others, but we don't copy them. The facts prove that this path is walking, right and right. The Chinese people are full of confidence on the path we chose. Third, adhere to the system of the Vsekine National Congress. We abide by the fact that all rights and powers belong to the people. We support and guarantee that the people rule in China, from central to local level. The World National Congress makes up five levels with a total of two million and 600,000 national representatives, two million and 500 thousand of whom were elected in direct elections, which is 95% of all delegates, and they were elected by the electoral body of nine hundred million voters. We are constantly promoting the rule of law and building up a socialist country of the rule of law. We currently have 259 current laws in China. More than seven administrative regulations and more than 10,000 regulations and regulations. This mainly covers all aspects of state and social life. The system of the Svekine National Congress, as a root political system of China, provides a firm guarantee for a strong and rich country, for the benefit of the people and for the revitalisation of the nation. Under the firm leadership of the CKKP China, with another Si Jinping as a core, the Chinese people with full confidence and practical attitude are making efforts to achieve the goal of 200 years and the Chinese dream of a magnificent nation's rebirth. Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, deep and complex changes are currently taking place on the international stage. The world economy is slowly recovering with deep adaptation. The issue of development is still very serious. In that light, China presented and launched an initiative to build a belt and road and created an unprecedented historical opportunity. Four years so far, the construction of a belt and road gradually turns from idea to action, from perspective to reality and has achieved extensive results. Two months ago, the Forum "The Belt and Road for International Co-operation" was successfully held in Beijing. President Si Jinping attended the opening ceremony and gave a speech that received broad commendation from the international community. Twenty heads of state and government, including Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, attended the Forum by three international organisations, and 1500 representatives from more than 130 countries and 70 international organisations participated in the event. Many new measures have been put forward at this meeting, both for the synchronisation of the development strategies of all sides for the construction of the economic corridor and for strengthening co-operation on major key projects, etc. In particular, China complements the Silk Road Fund with 100 billion Chinese yuan funds will certainly play a positive role in the versatile revitalisation of international co-operation for the integration of the regional economy and help to make the globalisation process more open, inclusive and inclusive. The ‘Source — Road’ initiative is originating in China, but belongs to the world. China is ready to co-operate with all countries, including Serbia, hand in hand, together to encourage new results in international co-operation with the construction of the Belt and Roads. Exchange between legislative bodies is an important component of interstate relations. Looking forward to the future, the Svekine National Congress is ready to work together with the National Assembly of Serbia, using its specificities and advantages as legislative bodies, even better serving the development of interstate relations, to realise the important consensus of the leaders of the two countries and to make way for the common prosperity of China and Serbia, even wider, even more passing, for the sake of the people of the two countries. First, we need to cement mutual political trust and be consistent friends under all conditions of time. The political relations between China and Serbia at a very high level represent a wealth that has been accumulated for many years, which is also a solid basis for further uninterrupted development of bilateral relations. The Chinese side is ready to further step up the exchange with Serbia at the highest level and plan and lead to the development of the two countries' relations, starting with the general situation and strategic height. Further intensification of exchanges between governments, legislative authorities, parties and parties, localities, etc. deepens co-operation in all areas. The two sides should continue to support each other firmly on issues of vital interest and state importance, continuously strengthening the strategic and comprehensive nature of Chinese-Serbian relations. The Chinese side will continue to support the development path that the people of Serbia have chosen by choosing from their own domestic situation, support Serbia's efforts to preserve its country's sovereignty and territorial integrity. Secondly, we need to speed up the synchronisation of our own development strategies, deepen co-operation in the joint construction of the Belts and Paths. Serbia is a very important country along the Belt and Roads, also because it is the first country in the Balkan region to sign an intergovernmental memorandum on joint construction of the Belt and Roads with China. We expect the two sides, using the implementation of results from the Beijing forum, to achieve a synchronisation of the construction of the Belts and Paths with the Re-industry Strategy of Serbia, will free up development potential and increase common interests. We need to take advantage of the economic complementarity of the two sides, the advantage of high degree of compliance in the development strategies of the two countries, further increase the volume of trade and investment, raise the level of targeted conclusion of industry, improve large representative projects, such as Belgrade – Budapest, "Zelezara Smederevo", strengthen the traditional strong side of co-operation in the areas of energy and the construction of transport infrastructure, etc. At the same time, we are speeding up finding new growth points in co-operation, in the field of economy, in the financial sector, etc., by creating a versatile and sustainable development of practical co-operation between China and Serbia, for all foreign practical China and Serbia, to create a model and a sample for the construction of belts and roads. Third, play a leading role, deepen co-operation "16+1". Central and Eastern Europe is the region with the largest development potential in Europe. In recent years, the co-operation between China and the Central and Eastern European countries has kept pace of development, the volume and depth of co-operation steadily increasing and has already entered the age of maturity. The Chinese side highly appreciates and supports that Serbia consistently supports and actively participates in the co-operation and as a host has successfully held the Belgrade summit of the "16+1" leader. We expect that Serbia will play an even greater and more important role in this co-operation, starting with its specificity and advantages. He's doing a good job as a co-operation centre operator in the area of traffic infrastructure "16+1". Encourage and lead this co-operation to make it a new bridge for growth in China and Europe's co-operation. Fourth, carefully process human soil, cultural exchanges, bring the peoples of China and Serbia closer together. Similar history and characteristics of the people of China and Serbia have contributed to the peoples of the two sides of natural closeness. This is a basic reason and a special advantage of long-term good ties between the two countries. In order to connect and join the hearts of the two nations, we need to make long-term and constant efforts. We expect the two sides to further improve co-operation and exchange in the fields of culture, education, technology, tourism and sports. Good use of the Chinese Cultural Centre in Belgrade as a new platform. Further, increase the volume of student exchanges. To encourage as many citizens of the two countries as possible to visit each other as tourists and thus deepen their knowledge of each other so that our traditional friendship is even deeper, rooted in the hearts of the peoples of the two sides, to be transferred from generation to generation. Fifthly, we need to step up strategic communication and coordination, strengthen cooperation in international and regional affairs. China and Serbia's international co-operation is excellent. The two sides often co-operate closely on important international and regional issues. We expect that the two sides will further strengthen strategic communication and coordination in this aspect. Together, they promote the liberalisation of international trade and investment. They strongly oppose protectionism, advocate the construction of an open-minded world economy. Furthermore, together they advocate multilateralism, encourage the construction of a fair and equal international order in the world, and together create a fateful community of all mankind. The Chinese side understands Serbia's commitment to European integrity and we sincerely hope that Serbia will become a member of the European family as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, yesterday, President Gojkovic and I signed together a Memorandum of Understanding between the Svekine National Congress and the People's Assembly of China, which introduced a new platform for a more efficient situation and co-operation of two legislative bodies. We expect that, using this opportunity, the two sides will actively step up friendly exchanges between parliamentary committees and committees, group friendships and professional services will further encourage the two sides to exchange in several forms and in several ways and actively give their proposals and suggestions and connect people, share information to improve all sides in China and Serbia's co-operation. The two sides can exchange experience on state governance, improve the legal environment for better coordination in the political guidelines for the synchronisation of strategies and mutually beneficial co-operation, thus providing more great points and a firm guarantee for the development of our interstate relations. Dear friends, today all present friends are Members of the prominent people of all Serbian society clubs. We expect that all of us, using our important role and influence, will add to the progress of the Chinese-Serbian relationship and friendly co-operation. You are truly welcome to visit China as often as possible. The proverb of China says: “A hundred ships will first arrive in the competition by the one who has the most diligent oars. ” Dear friends, come together, hand in hand for a brighter future of China and Serbia's comprehensive strategic partnership. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-17-0.u18553	Dear People's MPs, I thank you on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Permanent Committee of the General National Congress, Mr Djang Dejiang, for his address. I hereby conclude the tenth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Thank you. (The session is closed at 10:45 p.m. )
