ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18307	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 9th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find the sitting to be attended by 110 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please Members of Parliament to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 114 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, only Tuesday and Thursday, following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs attending the sitting, and before moving to a further debate, in accordance with Article 287(2). Rules of Procedure, today we have a request for information and explanations on the agenda, based on Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18308	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have several issues all on the same subject, part addressed to future Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and part of former Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic. Namely, a statement issued by the International University of Novi Pazar a few days ago, which he announced, is otherwise a university in an earlier formal one, and now the actual ownership of our colleague Muamer Zukorlic, former Mufti, former president, founder and owner of this university, and now the owner of this university's shadow. A university that can't be accredited for more than ten years, because all the institutions in this country who are competent for accreditation reject it because it doesn't even meet the basic requirements to accredit any of its programmes. So, a few days ago, the university sent a statement published by many media outlets saying the Serbian government adopted a conclusion confirming the university's validity at all levels, basic, master and doctoral studies. So, a university that can't be accredited for ten years, won't be accredited by an accreditation and quality control commission that is responsible for it, will not be accredited by the National High Education Council, which is a second-degree body in the process of accreditation of the university, suddenly obtaining accreditation and its diplomas, as they say, from establishment until future recognition, although they do not meet any of the basic conditions to be accredited, and all of this is signed by Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic. My question to Alexander Vukic is how is it possible for him to give himself the right to replace all the institutions that decide on accreditation in this country, to recognise the teaching programmes of the university that all the competent institutions consider not to meet any condition that these curricula should be recognised and that, contrary to the opinion of all the institutions responsible for this, I have decided that the diplomas of this university can be valid and can be recognised? Something like this happened once, though, and I was talking about it. I already asked Alexander Wolfie about it. A similar thing was done on November 22, 2015, when Aleksandar Vukic signed the conclusion that by the end of the accreditation process, the university's issue is considered valid. I didn't get any answer as to how that could have happened. Now they've gone even one step further. So that's when they said until the accreditation was over. Accreditation has been completed, the university has failed to accredit any of its programmes and the government of the Republic of Serbia suddenly declares the university's diploma valid, contrary to the opinion of all institutions in this country dealing with such matters. I ask Alexander Vukic a question – has the government really come to this conclusion? If so, how could she have come to such a decision, based on which parameters and who she was talking to? Did she consult these institutions, ask them why they think the university doesn't meet any of the conditions for being accredited, and suddenly Alexander Vukic accredits it with his decree? A question for the new prime minister, for our future prime minister, who was here yesterday full of mouth and knowledge and how we should live in an education society, in which knowledge is appreciated, what does she think about sitting there, and tomorrow she will lead a government that behaves in this way towards education in Serbia, which in this way refers to all those who learn and work, who in this way refers to institutions that care about the quality of the university and the education of our future generations?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18310	Thank you, colleague Jerkov. The word has Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18311	Thank you, Chairman. My question is to the Department of Defense. Namely, on what legal basis and who supplied the data allegedly from the Nis Military Department to Aleksandr Martinovic, who falsely represented the government's choice here during yesterday's debate, and this is about the personal data of Zoran Zivkovic? I'm interested, and I'm asking the Department of Defense for an answer, is that by law? If it's done by law, then I expect the same information to be delivered to me about Alexander Vulin and the military department that was in charge of him. And if it is not under the law of the Ministry of Defence and its organisational unit to provide this information to MP Aleksandar Martinovic, head of the SNS parliamentary group, to abuse the government's debate against Zoran Zivkovic, then I am asked to be told exactly how it happened, who did it and to urgently carry out proceedings against an unknown person or persons suspected of committing this against the law, or criminal act. Next question I ask the Foreign Ministry. I would like to hear from him whether there is any procedure, internal or any other, for the deaths of two officials and ambassadors of the Republic of Serbia, Potjelica, Libya. Since he is blatantly silent about this case, and since it is about diplomats and senior officials who represented this country abroad, I expect that the smallest debt of this country, and also to the MPs, to explain to us whether any proceedings, investigations or anything has been carried out on this matter. If I did, I'd be given the information.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18315	The word is Miljan Damjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18316	We refer the question to the Minister of Agriculture. These days, it's already been going on for more than two weeks, there's been a great struggle of raspberries, a raspberries producer, in this case and against the state, because it's the state that didn't protect them. We ask the question – what will the ministry and what in general and the Serbian Government intend to do to protect the raspberries producers? I will remind you that just about ten days ago, the Minister of Agriculture announced that he would receive a delegation from the producer of raspberries, or raspberries, and then he told them that the state could not influence the market, and before that, he announced that he would do anything to help them. I will also remind the Minister and the public that the state and how it can participate in this problem because there are laws of the Republic of Serbia, and it is viewed through the Criminal Code in which one of the members of the Criminal Code says it can be sanctioned through a criminal act to conclude restrictive agreements. Here it had to react from day one to the prosecution, for the reason that the contract we are talking about in this Criminal Code, which the purchasers of the raspberries had concluded in Valjevo, was against the law and that the price of 120 dinars, which they were self-determined, was actually a monopolistic undertaking of certain tycoons protected by the state. Yesterday, a ravine protest was held in Aryl, a small town in western Serbia, where the majority of the population lives from that production. They also announced major protests and roadblocks unless this problem is resolved as soon as possible. If he doesn't really get rid of it, the SRS will stand by the raspberries producers. On the other hand, we call for urgent response and can respond to the Competitiveness Commission and the Antimonopoly Commission because today they are the subject of raspberries, tomorrow it can be wheat, the day after tomorrow any other, third agricultural product, whether from fruit growing or other branches, is completely irrelevant. It is clear here that the state has gone astray and has decided out of its own personal interests to destroy an ordinary peasant who is exporting this product and to fill the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It's familiar to everyone. You also have the data of how much, indeed, on an annual basis, from the export of raspberries, the state of Serbia is revenueing. What should not have been allowed, and it is again a guilty state, is that at that peaceful meeting yesterday, a number of the beatings who tried to break up the peaceful assembly and address the Malian representatives were set out to help their country to make money and help the monopolies, i.e. the tycoons, into physical reckonings with people who work 40 degrees hard to earn a dinar. It must not be allowed and must react urgently both to the ministry, on the one hand, and to the prosecution, on the other. I will remind you that what the raspberries are looking for is indeed a price that corresponds to the market, which is 1.83 euros a ransom price per kilogram. I'll remind you that last year, when it was much cheaper alone production and production and fuel and oil and all other resources, the price was from 200 to 240 dinars. Now it has been tried in one criminal way to reduce that price double, no less than twice as much. We invite the Ministry, but also the Government to respond urgently, and we will stop our producers when they find it most difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18317	Thank you, colleague Damjanovic. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18318	Good afternoon. I'd like to ask some questions for new candidate Ana Brnabic, given that in my speech I won't have enough time to point out some things from her exposé, and I'd like to get answers. In fact, we have seen in the exposé commendation of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic that the new Law on the Implementation and Security of 900,000 executives has been resolved in a year. I would like to ask a question – is it even aware of the consequences of the law on enforcement and security, and how much in an unfavourable position does this law not guarantee any rights? In fact, these 900,000 cases were primarily due to a provision in a law where the parties had one period of time to determine whether they would charge their claims through a court or through public executioners. Many of the parties, these are the various workers who, in privatisation proceedings, have remained suspended for their company's work experience, wages, stock value, possibly, companies in which they had actions, as legally ignorant parties did not take advantage of the possibility and did not define how they would carry out their claims, so that the number of cases was reduced. On the other hand, this law literally gives public executioners the opportunity to become richer people overnight. Especially when the debtors are public enterprises. It is only necessary to send one e-mail and when you send that e-mail, let's say, if the debtor is the debtor of the Republic of Serbia's budget, simply the National Bank executes a blockade and is easily charged. You get advances and you pay your expenses and you get a reward based on your claims. Does Prime Minister Ana Brnabic know how many people have been expelled and kicked out of their homes? Every day several people will be evicted from their homes only in Belgrade for the collection of these claims under the law on enforcement and security. When the Davers ask themselves, no one will be able to lose their family place of residence because of any debts. It's neither normal nor cost-effective to the state. It's not normal on the human side, it's not worth it for the state, and you allow and tolerate crime, that apartments are sold for 30% of the real value, even less, to take people's apartments for false and fictitious debts and buy them out, whether by the combination of corrupt judges and executioners, whether banks. It's one network that's ruining these citizens. Public executioners are a big problem. I also pointed to only one invoice by the public official Rankovic to the Elektroprivredje, 57 million dinars only one invoice from two years ago towards Serbia's Elektroprivredje. Do you know how much these people make? Hundreds of thousands of euros. Of course, they give a share for the party, a share for whoever put it in the place of the executioner. I think it's a scandal for you in your exposé to brag about the law of execution and security. The second question concerns something very interesting to the MPs these two days, and I see that questions have been asked this morning, and your brother's business is also at stake. It is interesting that you have shut down the Electronic Business Directorate, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic has shut down, I ask her, the Directorate for Electronic Business and will likely translate her into the cabinet of the Prime Minister. We've seen from the exposé that it's actually the main focus of its operation. I would like to point out that it is really illogical and, at the very least, immoral to even participate in the tender of the firm's brother, Minister Brnabic, the current prime minister, while she is at the head of the facility. I'd like to ask her if it's going to be a practice, while she's the Prime Minister, that her brother participates in the state's tenders, where she directly decides on his fate? How does he participate in the tenders? So far, I have to admit, he had no intention of getting jobs, but that Asseco firm was serving to be a rabbit, or to deliberately make multiple offers, so that another bidder, who needs to get a job, would actually get it. I would just like to illustrate one example, that as soon as she entered office, here's the day after she became a minister, so it's a practice that existed obviously before and before, on 12.08.2016, the promotion of the appi portal for payment of e-government cards, as software infrastructures and electronic administrations, the job gets S&T Serbia for some seven million with VAT, and Asseco for the same job offers a 37 million offer. So he obviously plays the role of a rabbit and works in agreement with another bidder who needs to get a job. The prime minister herself will understand, probably, when she stops her post, which will be very soon, why and how they designed this game and why it is a specific role for her brother, but it will be too late for her.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18320	Thank you. The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18321	Thank you, Your Honor, I would like to ask the question, probably, of the future Minister of Energy, Mr. Antic, I hope he is feeling better today, as well as the future Prime Minister. I think it's important that she participates in making up an answer to the parliamentary question. The question is whether Serbia's Elektroprivreda will do all planned repairs in 2017? Why am I asking this question? In fact, sometime before the end of his term, the former prime minister of the government organised a meeting with the leadership of Serbia's Elektroprivreda about how the poor work of the Elektroprivreda of Serbia in the first few months of this year would not have such consequences that the famous growth of GDP, which seems to be the most important thing in the Republic of Serbia, was not 3%, for the first few months of the period when Serbia's electroprivedness failed to meet the planned production of electricity. As a solution to the situation, the Prime Minister, then still ordered that all the plants in Serbia work full capacity, not as planned, to stop all the repairs planned for 2017, to replace the amount of electricity not produced in the first half of the year. All of this has many bad consequences. Some can be long-term and catastrophic, I can tell. What's this about? During the summer, Serbia's Elektroprivreda produces less electricity, repairs the most coal-working plants, coals that are being bathed during that time are being stockpiled, and at the beginning of the winter season coal storage are always full, plants have been refurbished to work during the winter. If you step away from that plan, we'll be in a situation that no amount of coal will be planned before the winter season, and the question is whether all plants will be able to last the entire season to work non-stop because they are not remounted. I fear that if he gives up on the planned remonts, and what the former Prime Minister has ordered of Mica, as the ruling majority's representatives here call him, that we can get into a situation that during the winter we don't have enough electricity, that we re-import electricity, we pay big costs, and maybe, God forbid, there are some restrictions. The second longer term, in my opinion, is much greater danger, that we must adapt our thermopower plants in line with the Resolution on Great Ashes, so the amount of gas coming out of our thermal power plants in accordance with this resolution and the EU and the European Energy Community must be reduced. If we don't do this, by the end of 2018, we will be obliged to shut down our thermal power plants permanently. The danger is to shut down almost one-third of the power plant. In that case, the Republic of Serbia will become fully dependent on energy, we will have to import electricity and pay a huge price every year and summer and in winter. So, I call on leadership, the new Prime Minister, first of all, because she did not participate in this to change this harmful decision and to order the EPS leadership to complete all planned repairs in order to remove the bad, and I fear the disastrous consequences that could result from the deal that was made in May this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18322	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18323	I'd like to ask you a few questions. The first issue is about the Ministry of Transport, Minister and Vice-President Zorana Mihajlovic, whether part of the road to the Stari Planina will end this year, because we talked and agreed and moved with work but it is important that it ends this year. The question is also the Minister without portfolio Mr. Krkobabic, will he continue to work on cooperative work in the coming period? Whether the programme that has provided certain cooperatives and will be implemented during this year, because we are witnessing that cooperative is one of the most important topics regarding agriculture. We ourselves saw yesterday in the exposé of our future prime minister, Mrs. Brnabic, that the cooperative also placed one of the important factors in the development of agriculture in the territory of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18328	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18329	Thank you. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, the first question goes to the President of the Republic. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 111 says the President of the Republic expresses the state unity of the Republic of Serbia. The President of the Republic held the position of SNS President. That's what Boris Tadic was doing in 2008. After that, Tomislav Nikolic heard enough to respect the constitution and resigned as SNS president and transferred it to the current president of the Republic. Article 6 The constitution says no one can perform a state or public function that conflicts with its other functions, jobs or private interests. The constitution here is very clear and in article 115 says the president cannot perform another public function or professional activity. Also, the President of the Republic, when announcing or giving the mandate, said the prime minister would deal with economic issues and digitalisation issues, and that political topics would be handled by the first Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic. Article 125. The constitution states in Section 2 that the Prime Minister is leading and directing the government's work, providing for a uniform political functioning of the government, harmonising the work of government members and representing the government. On the basis of which member of the Constitution did the President of the Republic invent the function of two prime ministers, both economically and politically? Since June of the month when this assembly meeting was made, it has been more than a year. To the Prime Minister, the current president of the Republic, the MP group has asked 22 times the questions from this assembly speaker. In order for citizens to understand, when an MP asks a republican official, as I do today, the government's professional service draws up a memo and the letter goes to the state official who is in charge, in accordance with Article 287. The Rules of Procedure shall give the requested explanation or explanation in writing within 15 days. The Prime Minister didn't do it once. We'll all agree that respect for rules and laws is very important. When citizens see that the biggest and highest state officials don't follow the rules, they wonder how the laws and equal rules and equal conditions can apply to us? The same question goes to the presidents of the Assembly, who have been asked a lot so far 14 times, different questions from this speaker, and not once has the president of the Assembly answered them. For example, one question is when will the annual work programme of the National Assembly be adopted as prescribed by Article 28. Rules of Procedure? So, the president of the Assembly schedules meetings by emergency procedure, colleges are not being held, we have no work plan but everything is happening from today to tomorrow, so Serbia is practically in a continuous emergency procedure conducted by the president of the Assembly. Why does the President of the Assembly not answer the questions of the MPs? The last time I asked this question, in violation of Rule 287, you could see it from a stenogram, the president of the assembly wondered that he did not know about these issues and had the secretary of the Assembly send them the questions urgently so that she could answer them. Here, it's been a long time since, and we haven't got a single answer again. This is one of the main reasons why we propose a shift, i.e. a vote on mistrust and a shift, the resolution of the National Assembly president, and we have submitted this initiative and then the public heard from the president himself that he will schedule an extraordinary session of the Assembly to discuss the proposal for her shift. What happened to that? She said no later than a month. It's been a long time. We haven't heard anything more about it. The way she broke the rules and the way she broke the Rules of Procedure could have been nice to see yesterday, where she denied opposition MPs the right to replication. For example, I couldn't answer, I have a replica of what the prime minister answered, or she didn't answer my questions and I didn't get that right but was immediately given right away to Marijan Risticevic, who, without any restriction, continued to insult me and the other opposition MPs, in violation of the Rules of Procedure which says this is not allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18331	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18332	Thank you. Chairman-in-Office, distinguished prime minister, Mrs Brnabic, distinguished candidates for members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Vladika Nikolaj Velimirovic said many years ago "does not steal the state because it is expensively paid". Why does my parliamentary question begin with these big words? So, on several occasions, in this term, I have asked the Ministry of the Interior about abuses and illegal activities in the township of Vracar, numerous abuses, numerous illegal activities in the municipality, as well as in public enterprises and institutions whose founder is the township of Vracar. The municipality is known for its power until last year, until the last DS elections, which is once again known only for the fact that wherever the authorities were operating behind them, there was nothing but desolation, desolation, depravity of the municipality and huge losses and minuses. Here, there's an example, living evidence sitting right across from me, living proof of how it's possible for a community to be made minus three billion dinars. I received answers from the MUP that members of that ministry started collecting the necessary information and information and that's what's good and that's what's right. I am now asking the Ministry of Justice, or the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, on the basis of information that I am holding that the City Municipality of Vračar in late 2016, and on the basis of very valid documentation, has filed a criminal complaint against the former management of Go Vračar, as well as the Public Business Office Vračar, in light of the enormous uncomplicated debt for leases amounting to over 780 million dinars. So, record amounts are at stake, as well as the illegal availability of property of the Vračar municipality. In particular, it's about the apartments the municipality had. No matter how much I appreciate the investigation, as well as the collection of the necessary evidence, valid evidence, information, etc. A very complex process, a very complicated job, I am asking the public prosecutor's office in Belgrade as far as these proceedings have taken place in connection with that criminal report. In this way, we will get an answer - how is it possible that in the Vračar business space fund, therefore, from a total fund of 49,492 square meters, after a few years of DS administration, we can come up with 21,000 squares of business space, therefore, to split the fund? How is it possible that for 5,354 square meters there is no record of where these squares went, where did that space go? It's a way to get those answers. Also, to answer the question -- how can a 780 million dinar debt be made? So, I repeat, it's the Vračar City Municipality, the central city core, perhaps the most attractive municipality in this sense for business space, and we come up with the unpaid 780 million dinars, of which over 500 million dinars are in an ageing period, so the money we can't ask for because it's obsolete. These are the questions that bother us, as well as the question of what about the apartments? The Vračar municipality in its fund, while run by the DS, had 421 apartments. When DS fell out of power, when the audit was carried out, and this is not data, and I'm telling you right now, this isn't some kind of flat-rate data or someone's assessment, this is what the DRI and one external audit were doing, so the city's budget inspection. Several bodies have been audited, and this is the result of that audit. So, out of 421 apartments, today this fund is halved, even worse than that. For 160 apartments absolutely can't determine where they're missing, there's no documentation. How is it possible, sometimes something exists, now it's gone? So I say, I will return to the great words of Vladika Nikola Velimirovic: "Don't steal the state, for it is expensively paid." That way, we'll send a message that whoever breaks the law, that whoever hijacks the state property, must be held accountable...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18334	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18335	Well, he stole 10 seconds from me. Please let me finish. It must bear responsibility, not only moral and political responsibility, but also criminal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18336	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. We move to the 1st point of the agenda, therefore, according to the order of the MPs, according to the application for a word in search of a proposal for government election. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18337	Mrs. Brnabic, future members of the government, after your exhibition in the debate yesterday and today in this high house, we are actually setting a scale of goals that we need to achieve and achieve in the next period. We are rounding the continent, which for me is a contract with citizens of Serbia, which was reached on the basis of legislation in the elections, an extraordinary parliamentary one last year, and confirmed in the regular presidential elections this year. Of course nothing will be easy, without resistance, without disputing, which you yourself could feel personally these days. That is why I admire your courage, admire the risks you take and admire your desire to change Serbia despite labels, discrimination, disrespect. You've actually sent a few important messages these days, that you're very brave, that you're patient and that you're determined to continue to start reforms. Your proposal for the prime minister and future prime minister for me actually means affirmation of gender equality, building tolerance in this country, and for that reason, in the coming period, I expect you to launch a dialogue, an internal dialogue which, in my opinion, does not exist in Serbia because of too much passion, and how we need it. I appreciate that the previous government has been very honest with the citizens of Serbia, which has taken very brave measures and on your commitment in the next period of time to you and your team, about the goals that we are talking about, depending on the future of the country, depends on the decision of every young man whether he will decide to continue his life here in Serbia or beyond it, depends on the arrival of foreign investors and much more, but in fact, it is a key issue for me, which is very important for every resort and for every minister, what is it that we have done for the life of a citizen today? If you insist on that question, I believe the results will not go away. There are no doubt three key challenges before you – stability, internal, political, economic, regional, there is no alternative to the word stability. Then, continuity, that we don't always start over, and the dialogue I've already told you about. Of course there will be a lot of difficult times in regional co-operation. For this reason, I expect you to react to all regional challenges, together with Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Mihajlovic, by insisting on the implementation of regional projects, with the goal of making the highway to Tirana, the highway to Sarajevo, the rapid railways to Budapest bring together and unify us, and not separating as they have so far, and there is, of course, the customs union, which needs to be realized, the Regional Customs Union, which is to be implemented, which President Vukic has already announced. Of course, Serbia's incomparable position today is on the international agenda with several years ago. It is the jewel that has been left for you and which should shine in the coming period and which, with economic parameters, represents the highest value of the current government. After your serious exposure, I'd have a few recommendations on the inside for you. In my opinion, it has to be a better use of human resources, human resources capacity. The emphasis should be on expertise, competence, management. It's very important how you coordinate the ministries. Communication between the ministries is very important and, of course, serious discussions and serious debates on important issues. Finally, I have one question for you regarding sustainable development. Given that this issue is high on the scale of the UN agenda by 2030, what are we doing about it, who will deal with it, what will be the government's direct duties? In particular, I will end up with the fact that our young generations have to be competitive in all the markets of knowledge, because knowledge is the greatest resource of a nation. That's what you said yesterday in your exposé. Be assured that in this high house you will have for all the good that you are launching the support of the vast majority of Serbia's citizens and of course the MPs we represent. That's why I'll support you in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18338	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18339	Thank you. This is already the third exposé of Serbia's future prime minister who listens to the conditions of a more or less unchanged parliamentary majority. I must note that for the third time in the Prime Minister's exhibition, there is no mention of Vojvodina, although it is the only functional province in the Republic of Serbia. I must note that even though we have heard the praises of multilingualism and multiculturalism in Serbia, there is no mention of the fact that, let's say, the Vojvodina Assembly is of its six official languages the most linguistic parliament on the territory of Europe, except for the European Parliament itself. We have not heard what will happen to the textbooks in the languages of the national communities, since even though there were promises last year, the issue has not been resolved this year, and, apparently, it will not be resolved for the next school year either. On the other hand, local self-government has been neglected through the Law on the financing of local self-government, where local self-governments have been put in a position to participate with a tenth of the public revenues of the Republic of Serbia, while, for example, in Sweden, that percentage is 45%, in Germany, 38%, in Croatia. In other words, of course, local self-government will then be in trouble and debt, as they already are. The closing of rural schools announced means further centralisation that has characterized the government's work so that if you think to prevent the entire population of Serbia from moving to a few central areas and if you think to prevent an outflow of Serbian citizens to other countries, then you must ensure that they stay where they were born, for example, it can also be out of Belgrade. In this sense, it would be extremely important to make sure that money is found, that schools are not closed just because they don't have enough children, because in the end we are all responsible for bad and irresponsible population policy. Anyway, if someone asks you how you could find the money for it. It's very simple. It should not be forgotten that NIS pays the lowest ore rent in the region, and only 3%. To raise only 7%, which would continue to be impudently low, would solve the issue of funding all schools for all children in this country. I don't see where the problem is, as it should, of course, and bring into the system of VAT NGOs that have quite vague and cloudy funding systems. In the first place, I mean the Serbian Orthodox Church. Tax pay is an obligation for anyone who earns something in this country, and the revenues of the Serbian Orthodox Church are, by many estimates, very high and not only Serbian Orthodox churches, but also other religious communities. So in that sense, if only those two sides could approach this problem, I believe it would be quick and easy to solve. It is wonderful to rebuild two important museums as you have announced, and have you noticed that both these museums, both the National Museum and the Museum of Contemporary Art, are in Belgrade? It's remarkable to rebuild seven medical facilities. Have you noticed that of those seven six are in Belgrade and one is in Zemun? People live outside Belgrade. This increasingly looks like some kind of pre-election programme for the Belgrade elections, rather than an exposé of someone who wants to be the prime minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The important thing is, you said that in the next 100 days you would solve the issue of preventing the easy purchase of a working country in Serbia by foreigners. I draw your attention that by September 1st, when it begins to apply, you only have 63 days left. We've passed the law, you've got it on the National Assembly site, you can use it, so you have no excuse for not being there, and there wasn't any time for that law to be made. Of course, who will solve the question of the police, and who will solve the issue of the military's position in this country? I know who won't solve it, but who's gonna handle it? Who's going to solve the Army's housing issues? Who will solve the question of the fact that our officers are at the EU's borders in torn uniforms, in rusty containers where winters heat from the branches that gather around their guard post? Sot. That's right. It's Sot, so go take a look. I was, look. We can leave together, come on, I don't have a comment, but I want this issue to start because the police must have enough resources to carry out their duty. The same applies to the military and the issue of military property, which could be many issues related to the housing problems of soldiers, housing problems of elders, etc. All in all, these are just a few of the topics I wanted to show you, which show that the exposures we heard were not made to look at in a set of Serbian images and what should be done there. If it continues with this centralised process, it will be extremely harmful for Serbia, and therefore we cannot vote in favour of the government's proposal. And another little question - who does Mrs. Prime Minister think he should send to Srebrenica this year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18340	The word has an Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18341	Thank you. In my exposé, and in the government's programme itself, I mentioned to my exposé speech several times, and there is evidence of several important capital projects that I've been talking about, as well as the ones I've been writing about. So one of these is, of course, the Vojvodina Clinical Center, which invests in 32.6m euros. Eleven of the 14 capital systems for irrigation are in Vojvodina, three in central Serbia. That's what I was talking about. A number of infrastructure projects: Željev bridge by the end of the year; five and a half kilometers of ipsion arm Kelebia – Subotica; the railway Stara Pazova – Novi Sad length 40.4 kilometers from the Russian loan; Belgrade – Stara Paza 34.5 kilometers, Chinese credit; Fruškogorski corridor; Subotica Theatre; Novi Sad Science Park, construction was launched in October of last year, ending in 2018, 29 thousand square meters, of which 10 thousand for the Faculty of Technical Sciences Novi Sad; Radio Television Vojvodina; "Bisens" Institute, I said that we have to learn a lot from them. The contract was signed this morning, Minister Sarcevic signed a building contract for the "Biosens" Institute Novi Sad. I think it's just the opposite. The Vojvodina had a very large amount of space and resources. I'm glad because I think we have a lot of potential here, but I wouldn't agree with it anyway if Vojvodina didn't have enough attention in the exposé. As for Srebrenica, I think it is important for the citizens of Serbia, again to note that the Serbian government has given fivem euros for various projects in Srebrenica. Who will go to Srebrenica this year will be something we will decide. As far as sustainable development is concerned, the government already exists and operates a poverty reduction and inclusion team dealing with sustainable development and is in the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister Mihajlovic, and has done quite already. He's coordinating all ministries and governments to work on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18342	The People's Messenger, Nenad Canak, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18343	I just need to draw attention that the corridor, mentioned in your exposé, is just an idea solution. So it's an idea solution, and it's not a question of building corridors. That's one thing. Second, the Novi Sad you mentioned doesn't have a city hospital. Do you know that? There's a Duke's Clinical Center that's been formatted to serve the citizens of the entire Vojvodina, but the city of Novi Sad itself doesn't have a hospital at all. So, the tv you mentioned, the tv building, I realized according to media writing, is funded by the circuit administration. Now I don't see who's paying for it. The Republic Government or the Regional Government? These are very important things. I am very interested in what you intend to do about the clear formatting of relations within Serbia and the relationship between the Republic and the District Government and local self-government which, in my opinion, are extremely neglected by too few exceptions to their normal functioning.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18344	The word has the People's Messenger Fatmir Hasani.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18345	Thank you. Dear Parliament Speakers, honourable ministers, respected Mrs Brnabic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as representative of the Albanian minority in this legislative House and the People's MP of the Party for Democratic Action from Presevo, we supported the previous government, its programme and the Prime Minister, Aleksandr Vukic, and we will now support this new government programme, and Anna Brnabic, as a candidate for the new government's president. Because both governments have an almost common goal, which is economic development, a reduction in unemployment, economic and political stability, co-operation with neighbouring countries and with all countries of Europe, as well as other continents. It is our intention that, as a minority, we also make a small contribution to the comprehensive government programme, as well as to the EU path. This support can be justified, because on both sides we are willing to improve the climate between us, and President Vukic is also agreed that we are working more on this plan, so that these demands are in most cases resolved, which is in the common interest. The actions we have done so far show that we are working together and, as an MP for the parliamentary majority, as well as the government according to its actions, shows practically its will to solve our problems, for which we have written demands as an agreement. We expect Anna Brnabic, that these agreements we had with President Vukic, be realised within optimal deadlines. This is the way our status and co-operation applies to these three municipalities, in the south, where Albanians live and beyond in Serbia. We strive to have fewer problems with meeting the requirements for minorities, as well as for some chapters, as a relief for EU entry. We hope that the new government will deal sincerely with minority rights and achieve full membership in the EU. Through this process of European integration, create a climate in which minorities will feel safe, and in which they will be able to achieve all the rights provided for by European legislation. We, as an Albanian minority, are late for the dynamics of realising and solving our problems, because we have been going through some historical inhibitors and other burdensome situations. It takes us together to speed up the process that we are already creating and that will get better results. We appreciate the priorities of digitisation and education, because it is evident that the candidate for Prime Minister Ana Brnabic is following the modern trends of the advanced world. About education, we all know that the most rewarding investments in education are. These two things are highly appreciated and we want a lot of success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18346	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18347	I'm going to start off with something positive, and that's that the prime minister gained a degree at a foreign university, which, while on the world list below the five hundredth place, is unlike a large number of high-ranking officials who have suspiciously acquired diplomas, often from the university, even more questionable reputations. Unfortunately, there ends everything positive I can say about the government. The least said is that the exposure begins with a statement that Serbia's strategic goal is to join the EU, and that the prime minister then does not in any word mention respect for fundamental European values, such as the rule of law, which is a prerequisite for success in this process. By paraphrasing Martin Luther King's famous speech, we can call the exposés – I have a dream about digitization. So we attended the exercise of too much faith that technical solutions could solve the fundamental problems facing our society. The basic question – what is qualified by the prime minister to do the job? Is it possible that those were the results she had as a minister? If we look at the annual report on public administration reform, we will see that only two out of 13 results have been realised, as well as only 29% of planned activities. At the same time, towns and local self-government in Serbia owe about a billion euros, and late in paying their commitments, an additional 300 million. If these are the results of the announcements of how successful they will be as Prime Minister, we have nothing left to worry about but being deeply concerned. One of the biggest problems facing Serbia is the brain drain, one which has, unfortunately, gained momentum in the past few years. If we're judging by success, and the policy of retaining quality personnel in the ministry itself from the state administration, and I don't think there's much reason for optimism on this one either. This raises the question of how successfully the government will face the problem that Serbia is at the world bottom, when it comes to innovation and competitiveness, without which there is no future and progress. With the aforementioned departure of the most talented, we will turn, if we haven't already, into a country of cheap labour. Instead of strengthening our resources in science and technology, which would certainly contribute to the existence of a special ministry, the government as a surrogate will have a minister without a portfolio for innovation, which shows the government's real attitude towards this issue. On the basis of the above, as well as the fact that many ministers in this government are ministers of general practice, which is why, among other things, we are at the bottom of economic growth in the region, we can only conclude that this government will be the government of continuity of incompetence and failure. Because of all this, the Civil Platform and the KSP will vote against this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18348	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18349	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, dear Mrs. Brnabic, it is no wonder that you are the main target of these days, the attacks by NATO lobbyist and NATO fanatics, because it simply seems that you expected something else, not to define the government's policy on those principles on which the previous government existed, agreed and functioned, which is the fundamental and most important issue, the issue of neutrality and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. It is a great pleasure for us from the Socialist Movement to recognize the work and success of Minister Alexander Vulin's work, and to trust him, for us, with no less importance than the ministry in which he has worked so far. I repeat that for us, what I have already mentioned is a matter of neutrality, a matter of sovereignty, and a question of protecting the most endangered categories of the population at this point. It's that part of the political platform and the programme that has defined the PS to participate in all governments so far, and defines it to continue this government, to support and participate actively in its work. The fact that Alexander Vulin will no longer be Minister of Labour, Employment, Social Policy does not mean that it ceases, in any way, our interest and desire to help as much as possible and contribute to the better work of this ministry. So we absolutely support this proposal of yours to be in that place, so to speak, succeed and that ministry is taken over by Mr. Djordjevic. We believe that, for sure, it will continue where Alexander Vulin stopped and upgrade that system even better. We stand at his disposal with all the ideas and strength we carry with us. What I'm saying is, it's no wonder that the second priority man attacked today by NATO lobbyists and NATO fanatics, Alexander Vulin, because by proposing Alexander Vulin as defence minister, you made it clear that Serbia will continue exclusively military neutrality policy. We've heard all sorts of things here, from those of us who, when he became head of the KIM office, attacked him because he wasn't with KIM, and the Office ran better than anyone before him. When he became Minister of Labour and Social Policy, they asked what he would do when he was not a social worker, and he made the best laws in the area be passed, he did in social protection more in a short time than anyone before him. When he took over the management of the migrant crisis, they attacked him to know nothing about migration, and in the end the whole world confirmed that Serbia was and was, most successful in managing the migrant crisis, to remind you only Alexander Vulin was the only minister of labour and social protection in Europe to deal with the migrant crisis. All other countries have entrusted the problem with the interior and defence ministries, only Serbia entrusted the issue to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, led by Alexander Vulin, and we were again the best and most efficient in all Europe. All those who attack him without reason today are attacking him because Alexander Vulin is simply responsible, efficient, capable, and that's what they can't forgive him at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18350	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18351	I must confess that I expected much more from the future prime minister, Ana Brnabic, much more from her exposé, for the simple reason I saw in her biography that she had graduated from college in America. Although, it's not listed which college it is. It is further said that she has mastered England and worked for years for the U.S. government agency. I expected Ana Brnabic to give one new spirit, one new concept of the government of the Republic of Serbia, to highlight five strategic important things and important points that we could all agree on, both power and opposition, and that we could work together to realise these goals. I guess there are some things that we can agree on, not just listen to the prosecution of the previous government for all that it has done and all that the previous government has done is wrong, and everything that the current government is doing is right. I'm disappointed that the prime minister resorted to data manipulation like her predecessor did. I don't think we can make any progress if citizens are served incorrectly in the wrong context. So, you were talking about public debt yesterday. It is true that in 2012, it was 15 billion euros in debt, which is now nine billion euros in debt. So nine billion euros was owed by the Serbian Progressive Party's authority to the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is true that the participation of this debt in the gross social product is 72.9% at the end of 2016, it is projected to be smaller in 2017, we will see it by the end of the year, but it is also true that this debt was 45.4% in 2011; that this debt grows dizzy in 2013, when the finance minister was Lazar Krstic, whom we did not bring, but was brought by Aleksandar Vucic. Of course, the debt in 2014 jumps to 70%, and in 2015, 74%. It is true that the debts from 2014, 2015 and 2016 came on the charge of the Government of Aleksandr Vukic. They've come to collect and it's not a dispute. It is not disputed that interest was higher by 2012 for borrowing than it is today. The reason is – the situation in the international capital market, because the eurobor is now minus 0.5%, was 4.5%. You're in debt just as the previous government owed, with that borrowing objectively on the international market now cheaper. But you're in charge of nine billion against that time, and that's what's wrong, and that's what needs to change. It's not fair to explain how we've progressed 44 places on the Business Duing List if you know that the methodology has changed at one point. Progress exists, but it's twice as small. So 20% is more public debt today in the gross social product than it was in 2011. It is fair to say that 2009 and 2010 were years of terrible economic crisis in Europe, that in 2008, the economic crisis also started in America and that this is the reason for high interest rates for borrowing. I think you should have brought something new into the government. What you've introduced new, it's that there are two ministries more. What's new is that the Socialist Party of Serbia has two more ministers, so more members of the government than it had, and this confirms the thesis that I made during the discussion of the Ministry Act, that there was political trade, so that the government would get support. The Serbian Progressive Party does not have a majority for this government, so it had to give the SPS two more ministries to get the support. I don't think you should be ashamed of that. They're your coalition partners. What is also new is that the Serbian Progressive Party is not one of its members, claims to have more than 300,000 members, could find someone of quality enough to be Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, but rather the prime minister of the future government of the Republic of Serbia who is not a member of the Serbian Progressive Party and for whom I think it does not share the values and does not share that policy with which the SNS performed in the 2016 elections. You, as a future prime minister and as a prime minister, do not have real political authority in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it is normal that you do not have it because you did not participate in the 2016 elections. The citizens didn't vote for you. They voted for someone else. Without such authority, it will not be easy for you to implement what you have outlined in your exposé as goals. It won't be easy for you to do it with old people. The people in the government of the Republic of Serbia are the people who were in the previous government and failed to implement what the previous government had drawn. So I agree with you that you should invest in the IT sector and digitise it, but you will not manage to implement it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18352	Thank you. You've spent your time with your MPs. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18353	Ladies and gentlemen, the respected prime minister, the environment in which we live today, or the beginning of the 21st century, is a complex thing today in the world. It seems to me that he is best pictured by Tony Jed in his book "Woe Land" which says the essence of the problem in two sentences. Unregulated capitalism itself is an enemy. Sooner or later, he must face up to his own irresponsibleness with the need to be saved by the state. In such conditions, we today choose the government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia that needs to change the basics in its environment. You don't have easy economic solutions in the world today. Today you have no solutions that are common. Today is the time of evolutionary solutions, very often and revolutionary. Today, when we elect the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, we actually choose him with the same goal, with the same vision and mission to make Serbia better. The vision and mission in Serbia has been going on for 100 years. There is not a single Prime Minister, there is no candidate for a minister and there is not a single MP who does not vote and does not trust that goal. A successful Prime Minister doesn't arise the moment he's elected. A successful Prime Minister is created on the basis of results. When you ask us in Serbia – who is the successful Prime Minister, until recently we always remembered Nikola Pasic. The economic results are the essence of a successful prime minister of a successful government. education, culture, health care, the military, it's all based on the economy. When you have growth and economic development, you have growth and the development of society. Serbia, after ten years, is better off saying after a century, is fortunate to have key macroeconomic parameters and this is credited primarily by one man, Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, who had a vision, who had a mission to make Serbia look different. The government of the Republic of Serbia, the Serbian parliament was only there to monitor it. Today, when we listen to the debate in Serbia's parliament, very often we hear theatre explanations from the opposition, because how else do we realize that the social gross product in Serbia from 1.8 is growing to 2.8 in 2016, we say, and it will be 3% in 2017. When you have an inflation rate of about 1.6% at EU level, when your employment rate is 46.7% and your unemployment rate is 13%, what should we talk about today? These are too strong arguments for us MPs and for the government, not today in the debate, but for generations after us. No one in today's debate talked about the currency price that rose 6% in the previous three years. None of the opposition MPs thought of failed privatisations, privatisations, layoffs. Ladies and gentlemen, Aleksandar Vukic, the Serbian Progressive Party, the government he led, moved the debate in the Republika Srpska Assembly on issues in the election of mandates, there are no more topics. Madam Prime Minister, you are taking over the government of the Republic of Serbia with a 1.2% surplus at the general state level. The previous prime minister endured his exposés when the deficit was 6.6%. It's a common deficit, in 2012 it was 6.8%. Export growth is 37.4%, i.e. 10%, compared to 2014. Export coverage was 77.4%, and earlier years it was about 40%. They speak here of the debt of the Republic of Serbia and say it is more than 70%. He was. The debt of the Republic of Serbia against the social gross product is 66.8%. An incredible fall in recent months, and this is very fast approaching 60% of the Mastrichts when we will be able to have 0.9% of the deficits as perfectly normal as European countries. When I was saying these pretty simple and accurate economic data today, maybe it looks dry, maybe it looks simple, maybe it looks easy, but it doesn't. This is the result of effort and work, the result of difficult decisions. Let's start with the decision on the Labour Act. It is primarily a matter of trust this parliament and the previous government had towards Alexander Vukic. When we are praised today both in the West and in the East for the economic measures we are implementing, for the foreign policy we are leading, in Serbia we know that we have just begun, that we have just begun to return Serbia to its place. Serbia has had a difficult history, including an economic past. This economic past is a problem in social relations. Today in Serbia, of course, you have segments of society that function uniquely in Europe. Madam Prime Minister, I think your key problem is in the next period of time that as a young person you realize there is no past, i.e. that, as economic as it may be, we don't need it in the modern world today, we have to change it. Society, state, economy, can no longer be run without respecting economic rules, principles and theories. Serbian solutions in all these areas have often yielded Serbian bad results. What you will face as a mandater and a key economic problem is the movement of the capital price. If you have a rise in the rate of the Feds, and the Central European Bank will have to monitor it very quickly, it will have consequences for the growth of the Eurebor. We are talking today about a problem outside Serbia. So we're going to have a problem like other European countries, like the whole world. Do you remember when it was like that? Serbia is a world and Serbia cannot fight international global competition. Serbia shouldn't do that. Serbia is the place in that competition. Freedom and justice are what grew with Serbia. Without freedom and justice, there is no growth and the development of society. We should do so because we have often been in the past in a situation where we have been denied it. To get back to the beginning, Jad says - unregulated society, capitalism. Unregulated society is what you as prime minister of Serbia, the Serbian Parliament and the Serbian government should no longer return to Serbia. The hard-earned trust, not in government measures, but in the government's intentions, expressed in the elections, is the essence of Serbia's progress. Madam Prime Minister, it seems to me that you have enough courage and enough Serbian spite to take over the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because we trust you, we are here to share you, because we trust your team of honest and respected people, but above all we believe because you are the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18354	Thank you. The People's Messenger Slavisa Ristic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18355	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mrs. Brnabic, in this short time that we have as a parliamentary group, I will only talk about that part of your programme regarding Kosovo and Metohija. At the very beginning, I have to say one worrying fact, there are only seven sentences about Kosovo and Metohija, and I've counted the letters and the number, and 13 carefully typed pages about digitisation. That's what I'm afraid it will actually be to speak in advance of your position and your concern for Kosovo and Metohija. I will not speak in this section of the Kosovo and Metohija chapter, which is spoken of in the chapter of Serbia's integration with Europe and the world and co-operation with the region. So in the first sentence you call, when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, to a historic compromise. I'm interested in what historic compromise do you think you're talking about Kosovo and Metohija? That's what you're talking about, and that's what Alexander Wolfie is talking about. I must remind you, when it comes to the territorial integrity of the country, there can be no compromise. It's not a disputed peaceful solution to the problem, but no compromise on territory. So, in the last sentence, you also say that you will continue the continuity of the previous government and that you will rely to the greatest extent on the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and his policy so far. On behalf of the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, I really ask you, don't do this, because Aleksandar Vukic signed the Brussels Agreement and handed over the sovereignty of the country to separatist authorities in Pristina. I don't really have time to talk about the consequences of the Brussels Agreement right now. But you will admit, we who live in Kosovo and Metohija have the right to have that impression of betrayal and the impression that we have been betrayed by the state and by this government. Yesterday, Mr. Bosko Obradovic said the signatories of the Brussels Agreement were Aleksandar Vukic and Ivica Dacic, traitors. I cannot agree in advance with his claim, not because I will be punished here by the President of the Assembly, it is least important, but because there are different opinions in the Dvori itself. For example, Professor Kosta Cavoski, who is president of the party's political council, claims that they are not traitors, that a traitor may be a soldier who leaves the front, but that they, in his words, quote him – the signatories of the Brussels Agreement are high treasonists, says Prof. Dr. Costa Cavoski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18356	The word has an Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18357	Thank you. First, for Serbian citizens to say that it is amazing for me to talk to people, as a candidate for Serbian Prime Minister, by someone coming here, telling what he has, telling a bunch of incorrect and semi-information, to get up and out, and then I should answer as a candidate for Prime Minister, but I will answer to the citizens of Serbia because, ultimately, it is the most important thing. To start with what's easiest for me, from the State Department's results and the local self-government I've been running for the last ten months. We'll start from the rationalization of the state administration. It wasn't a hard job to rationalize the state administration. He wanted it 15 years ago, the IMF then, to try to stabilize the finances. The arrangement with the IMF was negotiated then for six months, started and then the IMF left Serbia after 25 days because nothing was done in the first 25 days. It's not hard work. He's been tried five times, so now he's done it. In the rationalization of the state administration, where the first phase was completed, and the second phase is reorganisation, the state administration, as I said, was reduced by 39,000 people, along with public enterprises for more than 80,000 people. These are total savings for the budget, savings paid by citizens of the Republic of Serbia through their taxes of around 180m euros. It's over, that first phase of my term. We have entered the second phase of the reform of the state administration, it is the reorganisation of the state administration and the most important – network systems of education, health and social protection. Along with the restoring ministries, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government have completed action plans and visa documents for two network systems, for education and for social protection, and for healthcare ends at the moment. Full implementation of the Law on General Administrative Procedure, a couple of excellency laws passed by the previous government in the prime minister's office before me, fantastic law, a law that completely changes the state's relationship with its citizens and says – the state becomes a service of citizens, citizens are no longer couriers for the state. It was supposed to come by 2015, let's say – enough was enough for citizens to be government couriers. It's not hard, it's just nobody did it. Full implementation of the General Administrative Procedure Act means that you had to connect some databases so that automatically state officials and people on the counter could withdraw those data. You couldn't have done it without one, most important thing – the parent books in electronic form. As long as you have your books, those huge books, like this, you're born, you're married, the books of the deceased, and you write down, and as long as it's in the books, you can't do anything for the citizens that they're no longer couriers of the state. After seven years, in my term as minister, this job is finally done. That is why since 1 June we have been able to release the full implementation of the Law on General Administrative Procedure by connecting the six most important databases – parent books, the Tax Administration, the Ministry of Interior, the PIO Fund, the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance and the National Employment Service. Now, as you've seen in the last ten days, citizens can come, schedule a wedding only with their own ID card and immediately end up in that place, just like they can come to the police and report the baby for passport only with their own ID card and they don't need anything else. It's been over in the last ten months. It's not much, but it's over. We also released the project "Baby, Welcome to the World", "e-baby", is probably funny, except for parents who are now having children, who no longer have to take three days off from work and go to five different counters, but nice at the maternity office to report their baby for 15 minutes, someone at the maternity home office gets a copy of the birth certificate and health card. It's not much, and it's funny enough, except when you don't talk populistly how important it is to have children, but you can't make sure that when children are born parents don't take three days off from work to report those kids. Inspection control. You know, the Department of State and Local Self-Government has been coordinating all inspection services since 2015. Thanks to the coordination of all inspection services and thanks to the fact that I finally talked about it yesterday, the introduction of order and common sense into the state administration, which I don't know how no one remembered before 2015, we now have inspections that are competent and unregistered economic operators. Thanks to this, the total number of newly registered entrepreneurs increased by 17% in 2016 and, more importantly, a reduction in the number of registered entrepreneurs by 10% was registered, which means that entrepreneurs in Serbia no longer see this motivation to not register, move to the gray zone because inspections apply to unregistered entities and thus allow people to compete fairly in the market. National minorities. Some previous governments were particularly strong on human and minority rights, national minorities, and then four sessions of the Republic Council for National Minorities were held over the past three years and were never better relations with national minorities. We also have an Action Plan for National Minorities, for which we were invited to Strasbourg in November by the European Parliament to present Serbia as the best practice in Europe for national minorities. Prior to that, the Republic Council for National Minorities met only once in October 2009 and was at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government. Together with colleagues from the Serbian government, above all the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Construction, we made two co-ordination bodies to finally start working on registers, population registers and address data registers, this was started. All in all, I haven't done much, but I've done something in ten months, and I'm sure, I can see by the other results that we inherited, that this work in the past has been much higher and had much more results, so thank you for all those who have left such results. These results, if we're talking to public debt, are that we only gave the interest money so much that we could build 150 kilometers of highway every year. So, in two years, we could have built a 200-mile highway, if we hadn't had such interest, so arranged. (Nenad Konstantinovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18358	No need to yell, I've heard enough. She didn't finish her term.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18359	If I may, please, just say something important to the citizens of Serbia, I guess. The general government deficit in 2016, when we talk about unfulfilled promises, was reduced by more than 200 billion dinars compared to the deficit the state had in 2014. Serbia achieved its primary surplus in 2016, which means that when you return all those interest, when you write it off, you have achieved a surplus of 75 billion dinars. Public debt decreased by 3.3% of GDP compared to the end of 2014 and in April 2017 it was 67.7% of GDP. Now let me explain to the citizens, let's not talk about percentages, here's, in the most complex way it looks with public debt and what the situation is left for and why it grew. So, it's like you have someone who doesn't do anything, Anna Brnabić sat down in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, did nothing, but she had to pay for the utility, for the food, for everything else that has to be paid, right, you have some expenses. Then, since you don't work, you don't pay, you don't produce, then you borrow to pay those costs, you borrow at an interest rate of 7.5%. Then leave Ana Brnabić, for example, at one point. Jadranka Joksimović and the debts and Jadranka Joksimović, for example. Then he hires and pays that interest. Now get a job in the Adriatic Sea and say, "Well, I have a job now, I have these debts that I have to pay back for 7.5% interest, come on, now that I have a job, I'm doing something, I'm doing, I'm borrowing extra to get my green interest back, and I'm borrowing myself, normally, at the bank, and for example. I borrow by 2%, return this from 7%, work and return. It's basically why citizens grew that debt. But you can pay back that debt now, and that's why it's shrinking. For the first time in 2016, that's why we have a debt tractor that's starting to fall. So, you have a job, you're additionally borrowed to repay these 7.5% loans so you don't pay interest only for 150km of highways a year, and now you have a slowly healthy state. As far as local self-government and debts are concerned, really, here we are, not going back to it, so many times I've talked about it in the Assembly, it seems to me that you have here in the neighborhood of people who might best explain the problem of the debt of local self-government. Smederjevska Palanka, a small Smederevska Palanka, has managed to repay three times a year's budget, so you're getting along with it now. The deficit to Belgrade was left with 20%, the Cup had four times as many employees at Optimum, and now you reduce it. So, in any case, I believe that some people here are far greater experts in making and explaining how the debts of local self-government were made than I am. As far as another fantastic thing, "Duing Business List" of the World Bank, the fascinating thing for me, here, it's a fascinating thing for me. There were two National Councils of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for Competitiveness. One in 2003, so he didn't do anything, then one in 2008, so he didn't do anything. I said, a website, five working groups, big constitutive sessions at the Palace of Serbia. And, Serbia just falls and falls and falls on the World Bank's Doing Business List. We will agree on a very objective criterion of the World Bank, and then the Government of the Republic of Serbia makes one joint Working Group, nothing pompous, nothing big, led by Deputy Prime Minister Zoran Mihajlovic, there are all ministers, doing their best and in two years, - ops, 44 seats we have risen on this "Ding Business List" of the World Bank and now only ranked better than ever before. The methodology has changed, not in our favor, if we were left in the first 25 countries of the world today. So don't talk about things. Please, a lot of things is a gray zone, not all black and white, but these, these things, public debt, deficit, inflation, employment that fell to 13%. Youth employment, which dropped 11% in 2016, remains 25.8%, which is catastrophic. The "Ding Business List" of the World Bank, please, these things are either black or white, and now they're white. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18360	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Zvonimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18361	President-in-Office, honourable Prime Minister, candidates for ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 107. The dignity of the congregation has been violated. Namely, what's this about? Very interesting, and what's interesting is that in the principle debate on the law and the government and the discussion in particular, as well as on the basis of the term of office's exposés on an extremely simple, subjective, biased way of showing some concern about KIM, and that of those who are a statistical error at KIM and that of those...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18362	Ambassador, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You can't replicate. It could be a breach of the Rules of Procedure, only.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18363	Well, if you followed the previous speaker, he gave himself the right to speak for the people of KIM, and there is no such thing as a statistical error and in the election body on KIM he doesn't exist. If you've been following him, he's hurt because he's allegedly not talking about some betrayal and he wanted to be fenced about yesterday's statement about KIM, and whether we should talk since 2000 about the betrayal and release of 1,300 terrorists from the KIM area, whether we should talk about a signed CEFTA agreement, whether we should talk about a pogrom that happened in 2004, where then the government and then the leadership where the speaker belonged, issued just some sort of alleged statement about some kind of rapid KIM. One more thing, I greatly appreciate and respect the people of the Tooth Creek, but it's not Zubin Creek...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18364	Time. Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. It's not that I wasn't willing to react, it's that... (Slavisa Ristic: Replica. There's no replica. What difference does it make what you're talking about? He quoted it as what you quoted Chavosky as saying. That was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure because the previous speaker has spoken insults in such a way that he's quoted the Chevosky Bones I can't punish, I'd be happy to punish him. There is no basis for replica because the minister of Article 104 has not used any of the basics. (Marinika Tepic: Rules of Procedure. ) The Rules of Procedure cannot be used instead of replicas. All right, word has Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18365	I thank the president, yesterday in a similar way I advertised, with the same intention of the 107th member who I believe you hurt while Commissioner Brnabic spoke and I believe you are obliged to inform her of several things. First, it cannot violate the dignity of the National Assembly by providing semi - accurate information or by creating a confusion in the public, and otherwise it is called data manipulation. I'll just mention what I mean specifically when she was talking about the National Council for National Minorities meeting. She mentioned that the average so far was in five years, four meetings, until 2009 only once. She had to say that the Law on National Councils was adopted in 2007, that it had been established only later and there was no legal basis for meeting once.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18366	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18367	I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18368	I guess. It was a replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. With clear intent you're replicating and subtracting your group minutes and how much you've spoken because this was a replication. The word is Maria Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18369	Dear Chairman, I point out the violation of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure. – during the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with the speaker in any other way than any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. I think we've had an example here for a few days that threatens freedom of speech and that it's characterized as a hate speech. I would ask all fellow MPs to respect each other, and especially to respect someone who lives in Kosovo and Metohija and at present. Unfortunately, precisely because of the signing of the Brussels Agreement of Serbs...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18370	You're doing the same thing, Your Honor. The injury has to be done directly. I don't understand when it's done at all. I really don't understand. The apostle has the right to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. He did not say about your family but about how many votes you won in Kosovo and Metohija. Don't take the wrong information out here. Your family didn't mention it. If your family, the one who voted for you, then that's it, but I don't know. Really, I don't know. The word is Nenad Constantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18371	Mr President, you have violated Article 104 by running your session. Rules of Procedure. You had to give me the right to a replica because the prime minister had misread what I was saying. Well, I'm asking you, will you give me the opportunity to respond, or should I rephrase the prime minister? I don't think she'd mind, either.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18372	Thank you, MP. When the president is president, I will be very happy to hear her opinion. She didn't object, and I made it clear to you that the replicas were missing, because you were... Read Article 104, you are at least a lawyer, so you know that members, everyone, are read from beginning to end. There's no interpretation of one, two, three words.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18373	"If the speaker... “ [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18374	I can't hear you anymore. You had no right to a replica without me punishing you. The People's MP, Zarko Micin, has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18375	I thank you, President. Dear President, Mrs Brnabic, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the exposé that Mrs Brnabic presented to us yesterday was a comprehensive and well-conceived programme of the government, which represents a continuation of the policy of reform, progress and development, which began the government headed by Aleksandra Vukic. I find it important that on the first page, as one of the strategic goals of the new government, Serbia's EU accession is highlighted, which will effectively continue an active European integration policy, thanks to which we have opened 10 chapters so far. In the exposé, serious attention is paid to the economy and public finances, which are certainly the backbone of one country's development and I think that the objectives set in this exposure are that the general government deficit is below 1% and that the level of public debt is below 60% realistic and, above all, thanks to the good fiscal policy of the previous government, which is why Serbia's budget today is in plus for 20 billion dinars. Also, what I think is good is that the exposé provides for a real GDP growth policy based on investments and exports, which is also the continuation of the policy led by the government of Aleksandr Vukic, thanks to which Serbia today has real GDP growth. Before 2012, it wasn't the case. I would like to mention two more new things that Mrs Brnabic pointed out will be the focus of the new government, which is digitisation, which I believe is extremely important and will contribute to the efficiency of public service and entire economy, and thus GDP growth. The focus in the exposure to the IT sector, which is over 10% of GDP, is also a great thing for the country, as the IT sector has been the focus of the Aleksandra Vukic government, investments in the sector have increased 50% compared to 2015 to over 330m euros. Education also as a focus, it's always an investment for the future and development of our country, and I think it's also very good. Mrs. Brnabic will not have an easy task of moving the success scale set by the government of Aleksandar Vukic. What did the government of Alexander Wolfie do? First of all, she managed to make economic growth last year of 2.8%. About 3% is expected this year. She managed to stop the growth of public debt that was mentioned earlier and is now at 61.7% of GDP and is lower by 780m euros compared to last year. Let's say that from 2008 to 2012, the same public debt increased by nine billion euros. Thanks to the government's policy of Alexander Vukic, Serbia today is the sixth country in Europe by the number of new jobs, and unemployment has been reduced from 25.9% to 13%. Alexander Vukic's government managed to create 130,000 new jobs, create 138km of highway and 360km of local roads, while someone managed to make 10 times less in 10 years by 2012. Alexander Vukic's government renovated and started work on more than 360 schools, hospitals, health homes and hospitals in 130 cities, 55 factories opened during the government of Aleksandr Vukic. Serbia today, thanks to the government of Aleksandr Vukic, is a modern and orderly country, which is respected both by the East and the West and recognised as a pillar of stability in the region. Aleksandar Vucic has routed, and at Ana Brnabić and ministers are to continue on this path, which I am sure he will do, because they have precisely, thanks to their teamwork and the leadership of Aleksandar Vukic, these results and achieved. The team of ministers, proposed by Mrs Ana Brnabic, is made up of people with serious biography and experience of people who were part of the team of Alexander Vukic, who had results and it is perfectly natural to support them. I will also support Ana Brnabić for showing diligence, commitment, energy, expertise. I will support it because yesterday, brave and politely, with arguments beat all those who have been trapped in the past, those who have criticised its results, and have never done anything for their country, those who have qualified the competent institutions as an incompetent minus one, those who falsely promote some values and all those who have abused comments tried to discredit it, I will support Mrs Brnabic and all the ministers, because they are supported by our President Aleksandar Vukic, a man who has devoted all his energy to making Serbia a better place for all of us, and if he thinks this is the right team to lead Serbia, I think we should all think so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18376	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18377	... Is this the censorship of my speech? [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[Bosko Obradovic: Mrs Gojkovic, you can't hear it all the time. It's off. What does this mean?]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18378	I beg the messengers for peace and quiet. What's this?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18379	I'm in the camera for the first time, and now you've replaced my microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18380	Where's the mic off?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18381	There was no speech of mine on the broadcast. [[Bosko Obradovic: You can't hear it in the hall at all.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18382	Please keep working.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18383	Ask Anna Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18384	Quiet, please. Are you here for work in parliament or because someone has technical problems? If spoken to, say, if not, let me know that I can give to MPs who want to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18385	How many copies of the single ballot were signed by hand in accordance with the law? As Minister of State Administration, you have unlawfully concluded a single polling list because the printed copies for polling stations were scanned without your own signature and seal print. It's not in accordance with the law, which we pointed to in the RIK. These are forgeries, where the printed copies for KiM were incorrect and incomplete. That is, by the way, the crime of assembling incorrect voter lists. The penalty is up to three years in prison. There's also a criminal report filed against you today, and I filed it with the First General Prosecutor's Office. So you'll probably get an insight. Furthermore, here you talk a lot about the ministry's work and especially about the e-inspector. It's this program where you connect administrative inspections. I'd like to look back on that. In December of the month, 1612, a job was awarded to Prointer in the tender. It's Sloba Krgić's company and Slavi Koqueza. However, you are canceling the tender where they offered 130 million dinars and 27.3. in the new tender you are giving the job to the company "Emethel listensn d.o.o.". So Slavisa Kokez and Sloba Krgić offered 130 million dinars, Emethel offered 200 million dinars and got the job. Citizens know, the biggest job you get is on software maintenance. There is the biggest money, because on maintenance only the bidder can maintain it, but above all the e-inspector allows the owner to see into all possible administrative procedures, the enormous power of information. The company Emethel is owned by Nenad Kovaca, called Nasha Roming. What's your relationship with Nenad Kovac? Do you know him personally? He is the godfather of Nikola Petrovic, who is the godfather of Aleksandar Vukic, a man whose talks we released from the "Balkan Warrior" operation, that he laundered money for Darko Saric. Interestingly, he bought a company from Tahir Hasanovic "Certus" in 2007, which is the one for mobile payments, and attaches it to "Lanus", who owns Busplus, so it is a multiple connection. Now I ask you, in time was the "Continental Vince" affair, is Nenad Kovac a man who asked for a racket from "Continental Vince"? You were telling the truth when you said Nikola Petrovic wasn't looking for that racket, because Nikola didn't do it, but it was Nenad Kovac. He was doing it back in Mickey Rakic's day. All foreign embassies and all companies operating with Telecom, with telecommunications, with energy in Serbia, know about associate Nenada Kovaca, who is visiting the notebook, says how much invoices are increasing and where the difference is paid for getting a job with public enterprises. That's what Nenad Kovac does. Bojan Pajtic was not allowed to connect him, of course, because of their relationships. But, answer me, did Nenad Kovac ask for a racket? Where is Lidija Udovicki's statement, which mentions her, him, not Nikola Petrovic? So you gave him the job, you took it from Coquez and Sloba Krdgic and you gave him the e-inspector. Why are you moving the e-business directorate into your jurisdiction? Is it possible because of the USID job with a 15m-euro judiciary, where USAID will be given insight into all proceedings before Serbia's courts? To whom do you intend to give, do you intend to give this job to Nenadu Kovac again? Well, that's why I congratulate Alexander Vukic and why I congratulate him on the suggestion that you be the prime minister. "Continental Vince" was his neck stone. With that affair he was in trouble and was blackmailed. He could have set someone else up. Zorana Mihajlovic also has the same qualifications as you, the same foreign sponsors and mentors, and it is much stronger and longer in the government than you, but you were the right solution, because as of tomorrow, you can no longer be a witness to the "Continental Vince". Your credibility will be much less than the credibility of a Velimir Ilic, to declare that Nenad Kovac is the man who asked for a racket. And there's the genius of Alexander Wolfie. He moved from the "Kota", from the embassy and got out of an awkward situation. In three, four months, in six months, when you're no longer in this country, he's out of this affair completely free and bravo for Alexander Vukic. Now I understand why Vesic, how such characters in your power. It's good for him personally, but it's a disaster for Serbian citizens. The Dwarves fight against such a policy and against such crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18386	The word has an Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18387	So, the only thing we haven't heard in this short, interesting time, fantastic exposure, is that the reptiles rule the world, and only the gifted can see them. It's the only conspiracy theory we haven't heard in these two minutes. For foreign service, I assume you mean this one that my colleague mentioned yesterday that I was working in Serbian... The center, which was located in the SPC, so yes, perhaps for that side service I was working on, located at the SPC in London. As far as the e-inspector is concerned, it's nice to spin the truth, this all sounds bombistic, fantastic. So, the e-inspector is an open tender, not yet closed because they are in the appeal process, I mean the third or fourth round, as it is already permitted under the Public Procurement Act, completely open, completely transparent. Four consortiums have applied, and the commission formed by the eGovernment Directorate, an expert associate in this, at the request of the Commission for the Protection of the right of bidders is the Faculty of Electrical Engineering of Belgrade. I assume you're now, after you said that SPC is a foreign service, and the Faculty of Electrical Engineering of the firm Nenada Kovaca. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18388	Thank you. (Srdian Nogo: Replica. You're giving yourself replicas. (Srdian Nogo: Rules of Procedure. All right, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18389	Article 104 clearly states, Mrs Gojkovic, when the MP has the right to reply. According to Article 104, if my exposure is misread, I did not call the SPC anywhere the way Mrs. Brnabić characterized it, but USAID. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18390	Don't replicate. I shut you down because I see what you're doing I was so scared. [[Srdian Nogo: Don't give me the right to replica because you're afraid...]] Here, I don't know if I should leave the session, someone else to lead. Don't yell. You can see it in the video... I give you a warning because you are acting in a way that is inappropriate to an MP. Because you're scared. Let me run the session. I've listened, like everyone else, in eight minutes and 35 seconds of your speech, where you've made something that I'm not going to go to as chairman. Ana Brnabic, as your prime minister, answered your question. You haven't let me talk in four minutes. I can't talk like this. This is more than degutant. I'm not afraid of anyone. Don't act like one. You turned off my microphone. No one turned off your microphone. I asked you to sit down, you'd be better heard from the citizens because you said something in the air because of your height. There's a stenogram where I said you're very tall, we can't hear you. Well, the man came and replaced the microphone. Don't yell at me. This is really untasteful. The word has Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18391	Thank you. I was expecting from the other side that we'd hear something about the exposé. So far, we've never heard of an exposé. We've heard all sorts of criminal reports about various affairs, people who've been in some former government, so maybe somewhere now and in some structures today, I don't know, but about the exposé, which, I must say, is the first of some prime minister's kind, we haven't had any more than one criticism. How can you criticize if someone wants to digitize society, to modernise society? That would be out of my mind. I have to tell you here, Mrs. Brnabic, you'll have big problems. We're like people, or else we're a little hard on these changes. We didn't want to bring the railroad to Serbia. We were against electricity, at the time it was introduced. We didn't want to have lights on the street. We talked about the bastards walking at night and the decent man sitting at home during the evening hours. That was all, unfortunately, in our history. It was very close at the time of King Milan that we went through to get the railroad. Now, imagine when you want to do digitize in this society, you'll always find someone smart, so they'll say – and the one in the village, he doesn't even know how to turn on the computer. Well, I guess we should teach that guy in the village to turn on his computer. Here, let's say, a banal example is agriculture. We're still struggling today to get farmers to team up, because you can't as an individual agricultural producer do anything on the market anymore, and that's Sisif's troubles, that's terrible. There's no way you're making our people team up. They're used to it. The state's gonna give me a grant, give me land, and now it's gonna guarantee my price. Then I see here some people who are allegedly right-defined, capitalist, but would like self-government socialism. It's especially difficult if you're trying to get someone to work, it's just a terrible resistance, because many people are used to getting into a nice political party and then expect the party to give them a job. That was a real problem before. You're a witness, and I think you said it very nicely, and by 2014, we didn't have a number of people working in the public sector. I think Lazar Krstic was the first minister to list people working in the public sector, and that was about 820,000 and some people. So you can imagine a state that had no insight into how many people we worked in the public sector, and we paid salaries who knew why, for various functions, to ask God for what. What we have, and that's where you were right when you spoke while you were still in the minister's seat, I totally agree with you, we have a situation that, for example, In certain places, which would say these ink so-called, we have a bunch of people working, five of them sitting behind a chair, and, say, in inspections, you don't have enough people, you don't have enough people operating in the police, in the IRS, and in the services. So you obviously don't have enough people to implement something that's very important for the state. I hope that as prime minister, at least you'll encourage a normal systemization to finally be made here and that we have a functional state. I absolutely support this in digitization. I'm a witness. Please, so these are very serious things now. The most expensive thing is time. He who wastes his time on pointless ranks really loses his job. I don't understand why you're still on all these platforms, paying through e-banking, you can't pay the money going into the budget, depending on the bank to the bank, but you still have a problem. Let's just say, these platforms don't recognize the jury's budget account. The other day, I had a problem, a tax of 190 dinars, an hour and a half waiting in line to pay at the bank. I don't understand why that is. Please let it be modernised as soon as possible. Also, by law, you no longer have to bring a birth certificate anywhere, but still many in our administration ask you to bring a birth certificate, as if a man could be born twice, and then every time you bring those pointless papers from the birth certificate, and I don't know, to a variety of beliefs. I'm asking you to digitize all of this and once you break up with that practice to ask us for a bunch of these pointless documents. If someone wants to see if I'm a citizen of this country, they can go online nice and see whether I'm a citizen or not, and that once finally, many in the administration and in many other organizations, break up with the practice of harassing people with a bunch of completely insane papers. There's this famous sketch that "The Index Theatre" worked when they say "FT1P", you're always missing one piece of paper, and when you come to a person on the counter, you get sick of life because you came there. So, full support, such as full support for education and education, and it's good to put it as a priority. We are objectively late, terribly late in modernising our education system. By the way, I have to say, as far as the Bolonj process is concerned, I personally think it totally destroyed our higher education and the way it was introduced back to our noses, and as it happens today in our colleges, it's a complete disaster. I'm even more of a supporter somewhere if you went back to that old system if you had, say, postgraduate studies of normal master's studies, and later you were writing a Ph.D., than what you have today with these masters. I think it's completely messed up our high school. If nothing, I have to say it's at least a good thing that changes and additions to the Higher Education Act were made a few years ago, to finally know what college is here. We always have different diplomas here, I don't know what. I have to say for the public now, all of these colleges have been licensed in some period of 2009, 2010, 2011, etc. To be perfectly honest, why are they formed? They were formed by a click of the regime at the time to house its party personnel due to the coefficient in certain places in the state administration. That's why they're formed. Someone could have come down from the street and said nice things -- I have a college and got a college license, and that's how it worked. Well, it's a good thing there's been some kind of criterion, and I think we need to tighten the criteria even more. We do have some private colleges that are scandalous. To be perfectly honest, it can't be called college, it doesn't have any level and I hope you'll sharpen the criteria there. I fully support you for introducing dual education. I can't really listen to these completely abnormal criticisms that dual education creates young slaves. It's really not normal. Then let's not let anyone do anything. Today I even received one criticism, he says – dual education will make us workers who have never read anything, let's say, from Russian classics. Now let's see how many educational worlds we have read Russian classics, for example, and we're asking workers. You need someone who will be trained when he graduates from high school to enter the factory and to work, if he's already decided on a trade. We really have a problem today, we have graduates in engineering schools today, in electrical schools they don't know how to fix. That's tragic. More practice has to be introduced in these schools where we have trades and some new trades are being introduced that are experiencing their progress in the world, and unfortunately there is still no education for them. I urge you to do a lot of work here, you will have the hearty support of all of us here. I hear constant criticism that you didn't put KIM in the exposé, so I don't know what, those political issues. I'm sorry, it's something that's meant to be. We're not going to write toms every time about how we're going to have a policy towards KIM. She's drawn, she exists. Of course you will work in accordance with what the country's state policy is, and that is primarily in agreement with the President of the Republic and this Assembly. After all, certainly according to what it says in our Constitution. Who's crazy to separate KIM from Serbia? Now you write special volumes. I think this is much more important. A country that doesn't have an educated elite is a country that will experience a complete fiasco, because if you don't have an educated elite you won't have a strong economy, you won't have a strong economy, you won't have anything, and only a country that has a strong economy, and after all, which builds a strong army can achieve something in the diplomatic field. I'm giving you full support for these priorities you've given, because I think they're key to our society and full support, and we'll certainly vote for the government when the time comes to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18392	The word of the messenger of the people is Alexander Jerkov, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18393	Thank you, President. I'd like to point out that you failed to pay attention, in accordance with Article 107, to what the previous speaker was saying. He said he could no longer listen to "unnormal criticism of dual education". Whether he agrees with something or not, it's his personal commitment. He has an opinion on dual education that is shared exclusively by Vukic, he and Minister Sarcevic. Everyone else thinks differently. He called all people, including many MPs who criticise the concept of dual education, abnormally called their criticism abnormal, and I don't think that's the way to talk today or ever. I believe you haven't heard. It didn't seem like you heard something like that, so please, in accordance with the practice you introduced yesterday, remove the mistake you made and react now. It's not too late. Remind the MP that he cannot say that any attitudes are abnormal because he has neither the right to do so nor the right to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18394	Thank you. (Alexandra Jerkov: An explanation to give me and ask me if I want to vote. You said yourself that I didn't hear it, that that's how I acted. (Alexandra Jerkov: I just distracted you. I thank you. I need to make sure the stenogram was as offensive as yesterday when they... Radoslav Milojic throws it away. ) Article 104(3). Yes, you could have read it in a year and the Rules of Procedure. The word is by MP Dusan Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18395	Thank you. Dear citizens of Serbia, I would like to say something very short on the current mandate proposal, and as for the period while the prime minister was at the Ministry of Local Self-Government, while she was a minister. I'd have maybe two questions or two observations. I'd like to hear back from you. You've been in charge of the election list for the past year. The voter list still has nearly a million voters more than the adult citizens of Serbia. How is that possible? Who are all these people? What have they done in the past year to solve this issue? Secondly, no less important, we heard the other day from a report that the debt of local self-government, municipalities, cities, municipal enterprises is over a billion euros. What have you done in the past year to recommend that you be Prime Minister now to address this issue locally? Do you know how this debt came to be? Instead of investing in infrastructure, in kindergartens, in sewers, everything went to party employment. You kept quiet about it for a year as a minister. You didn't say anything about it. Do you know, say, that Belgrade is the only city in the Danube that throws out wastewater directly into the Danube without any purifiers? That's how Belgrade cut the debt. So, you kept quiet about it all the time, I see you keep quiet. How do you think you can solve the problem of party employment in the public sector? Is it the same way you did in the last year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18396	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18397	The Honorable Madam President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister Brnabic, with candidates for ministers, respected MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is good, gentlemen, that the exposés of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic contain all the most important elements of the exposé of the former Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and the current president of the Republic of Serbia, the esteemed Mr. Alexander Vukic, because we know, or should know, that the exposés of Alexander Vukic are the most transparent, precise, most meaningful and the greatest of all 70 previous exposés of the Serbian government, starting from the first exhibition of the Prime Minister of Modern Serbia – Prote Matija Nenadovic in 1805 until today. Also, I am letting you know, who have not met, to you who have forgotten, that you, gentlemen of the people, who did not want to or did not want to hear, one part of you still gets the measles when he hears that the exposés of Mr. Alexander Vukic, I quote – in a prestigious, international magazine on the SCIMAgo list. (Dusan Pavlovic: Is that there? Here he throws a professor of the University, doesn't know it exists, a list of international scientific journals. That, professor, is the first time in Serbia's recent history, the exposé of a Prime Minister, I quote, in such a prestigious international magazine. (Miroslav Radojicic: He is not the prime minister. Is it true, gentlemen of the university professors or not, who are you sitting here? (Miroslav Radojićic: Rules of Procedure. ) Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SNS elected the esteemed Mr. Alexander Vukic as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia by coming to power. He found Serbia on the verge of bankruptcy, which means Serbia was humiliated. You'll have to listen to this, gentlemen of the opposition. Serbia and the people who were demonized, Serbia that was economically, industrial, agricultural, infrastructureally devastated. Serbia without a plan and programme. Serbia without security, the security of its citizens. Serbia with too much responsibility. Serbia without hope and faith of its citizens in a better future. Serbia with 26% unemployment. Serbia has destroyed state institutions and Serbia without friends in international respect in the world. In other words, he found Serbia lonely as an island at sea. We had no one in the world on our side. The only one on our side was the almighty God who gave us you, the respected citizens of Serbia, who, in your votes in democratic elections, dissipated Alexander Vukic and led him to the head of the government of the Republic of Serbia, that, together with you, respected citizens, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, most of the MPs in this honorable House, President Nikolic was saving what can be saved from the destroyed Serbia by the party of the former regime. As you can see, they destroyed everything, our past, our present, the future of our children, and if they had stayed for another year in power, they would have destroyed our roots. Mr. Vukic succeeded, turned Serbia's collapse to the right side, stopped Serbia from falling towards its goal, modernising the Republic of Serbia. We'll get to that goal very soon. His vision, knowledge, immeasurable energy, sincere communication with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, complicity and inconspicuous love for her country, could have pulled Serbia out of deep mud, in which it was dumped by thieves, criminals, lesbians, freelances, parties of the former regime. By coming to the head of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2014, Mr Vucic planned, quote – fiscal consolidation measures will bring the budget deficits down at the sustainability border of three to four percent of GDP in 2017, and start its gradual decline, finished quote, exposé of President Vukic on 27 April 2017, page nine. The government of Mr. Vucic achieved this, more than 100% and more miracles, not as planned to happen in 2017, but a year earlier, in 2016, when the budget deficit was 1.3% of GDP, not three to four percent, as planned, and the public debt fell to 73.8% of GDP, not 75% as planned, and now to 66.7% of GDP, which is a fantastic result. Is that right, gentlemen of the opposition benches, or isn't it? Confirm this or deny it. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so does Mr. Vukic, so does the SNS, so does the Government of the Republic of Serbia, by a system rarely seen in our political culture, about this particular thing, and this system reads -- written, said, achieved. Sometimes even before time, as you can see. Based on this improvement, the most important document in 2017 of the Republic of Serbia's budget is achieved in further maintaining and improving the country's macroeconomic stability. Within the segment, Serbia has achieved a favourable economic environment so that in the world's doing business list already in 2015, the prime minister said, from 91 to 59, so for 32 positions, which is the biggest jump of a country in the last nine years, in general in the world. In 2016 from 59 to 47 places, it means an additional 12% with a tendency to further improve. Is that right, gentlemen of the opposition benches you throw away, or not? Dismiss this. On the further downturn of the deficit level, Mr Vucic found a budget deficit of 6.6% of GDP in 2014 and reduced to 3.7% in 2015 and 1.3% of GDP in 2016, and is expected even lower in 2017. Is that right, gentlemen of the opposition benches, or not? I'd like to be denied today in this high house. What the citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to know is that GDP growth in 2016 is the result of investments, production and exports, and in 2017, it will also be from consumption, not from the sale of our factories, as the party of the former regime did and led the country to a break-in. In addition, as we continue to live in economically difficult times, this 2017 shows that the Republic of Serbia has a chance to return to the rate of economic growth and better life, despite the crisis that is rocking the European Union and very complex international relations. There is not a single area in which the government of Aleksandra Vukic has not achieved envious results. For example, I'll take the MUP. With Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic's arrival as interior minister, the MUP finally started to do the job it was founded for and achieved excellent results. Thus, the overall crime rate has been reduced by 8 whole 6%, amounting to 16.700 and fewer crimes. Is that how the gentlemen from the opposition benches or not? The murders were reduced to 23.5%. We have about a quarter less murders than during the party of the former regime. Is that right, gentlemen or not? 230 members of 30 criminal groups were arrested because 4.9 tonnes of drugs were seized. Nine new police stations have been opened, are few gentlemen MPs? The number of murders committed was reduced by 15% compared to the period of your reign, gentlemen across from me in 2008-2012 when you ruled. The number of rapes committed is down 27%. The number of crimes, property crime in 2016 is the lowest in the past ten years, is it true that the gentlemen of the former regime or not? In the end, there was a reduction in the number of car accidents by 17,000 compared to the period of your rule in 2008-2012, is that right, gentlemen of the former regime? In the area of healthcare since Dr Loncar became minister, very high results have been achieved, although during the former regime, the worst in Europe was the European Commission's assessment. For the last two years, since Mr. Loncar, Minister of Health, we've made progress for 12 places and we're in 24 places. We are even in front of eight EU countries, is that how the gentlemen of the former regime are? In three years, I have to finish, but let me tell you, the Government of Alexander Vukic, thanks to him and the Government of Ms. Mihajlović, has opened 138km of highways, 480km of state roads, built 369km of local roads, rehabilitated and built 311 bridges, completed and started work on the restoration of 360 schools, hospitals, health homes in 130 cities across Serbia. Is that right, gentlemen of the former regime? Dear People's MPs, we MPs and political party champions must possess a minimum political culture. In this regard, there is no excuse not to consult representatives of some opposition parties with the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic. It was a very rude act and politically irresponsible. The same party champions, they never fail when they are to consult with any US or Western official who comes to Belgrade. Not by coming to consultations with the president of the state of Vucic, the opposition party champions were in a frenzy. This is proof that they are not concerned with politics, but with the gossip of the authorities and Alexander Vukic, which is not suitable for political party champions, and have left politics to fellow organisations. And finally, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, these days we are witnessing scandalous, everyday, different, malicious, brutal, non-civilising media attacks on the president of the state, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Those shits have got to stop right now. These attacks are the product of mob-tacun criminal and political groups, both domestic and foreign activities. These media attacks are very dangerous, even for the personal safety of our President Vukic. To be clear, Serbia is a democratic country. The criticism of the authorities is desirable, but there is a huge insurmountable difference between criticism and media attacks. Media criticism is based on the truthfulness of the facts. That is why it is socially desirable and medicinal, but certain personalities, whether owners or employees of certain tabloids, are assisted by a certain on-call political and professional, and even scientific charlatans, lies about Alexander Vukic, his family and his parents poison our public to the limit. I believe there is not a single MP in this high House of the National Assembly who will not condemn and violence against the press, regardless of this. But I'm undermining the gentlemen you criticized yesterday, provided that journalists behave in accordance with regulations, good customs and standard practices, which they often don't, you'll have to admit. In the end, this government, Ana Brnabic, will certainly continue at full speed and take a step towards Serbia's final goal of modernising. This is guaranteed by these respected, hardworking candidates for the public ministers, this is guaranteed by this parliamentary majority, guaranteed by most citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and you who laughed today, I would like to be denied this information, and your ridicule will be told by citizens next time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18398	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18399	I'm sorry to interrupt this poetic inspiration, but Madam President, you've violated the 106th floor where the speaker can only talk about the agenda we're discussing today. I know, and the citizens of Serbia and all of us here know that Alexander Vukic is president of this government, that this government...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18400	Ambassador, you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, not a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18401	Yeah, let me just say where you broke the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18402	I understand everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18403	You should have sent a previous speaker to Andric's Wreath. The government is being debated here, I think, whose term of office is Mrs. Brnabic. We heard from the previous speech that it was Alexander Vucic, so if you can tell us who's in charge. We welcome this poetic inspiration.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18404	I will. I invite you to return the session. I hope you followed her yesterday, and she's in charge of Ana Brnabic, but I don't want to talk about it. I did not really hurt the Rules of Procedure, because Marko Atlagic spoke about the results of the government of Aleksandr Vukic and personally who did anything of the ministers' candidates in the past term. So everyone who listened to the show realized that the speaker was in the topic. We'll vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure. The word has the people's letter of Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18405	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Brnabic, I'd like to use your dictionary. It's great to talk about digitization, but let's talk politics a little bit. You obviously don't want to talk about it or you're not ready to talk about it. First question, I find it most important that you give an answer – do you, as the MPs who support you here today, feel that the batinian squads who beat journalists at the first inauguration of Alexander Vukic should be rewarded? Do you know that the man who suggested you has an understanding of why someone beat up the press, because my God, they came to provoke SNS supporters? You may not think you're a politician, but how can I tell you, it is. You come from politics, you'll be Prime Minister, you're very active in politics, and in politics that I think you're producing only devastating results, and that's why we should put your exposés in a context that you've worked in the past 10 months, but also those who support you in the previous years. So when you talk about attracting experts, you have to answer how we think we attract experts, if the government where you're sitting the only investments it has are investments that buys tens of thousands of euros per job, and the people that work in those factories stand 10 hours behind the tape. A dollar an hour has been paid, and very often in terms of work, the only condition they have to meet is that they can stand for 10 hours. When you talk about 21st century education, tell me what you think about what the man you're proposing and you're the minister of education proposed laws that are so retrograde, that the National Educational Council has recommended that the work on them be terminated urgently and that the working group that made them, that all education experts in this country claim that these laws bring us back to the beginning of the 20th century, when it comes to education, and that they deny everything that has been innovative in education over the past 50 years, Mrs. Brnabic? When you're talking about a society that we're going to base on knowledge, tell me how is it possible that your government concluded 10 days ago that all university diplomas that 10 years can't be accredited are valid? It's about the university of our colleague, former Mufti, Muamer Zukorlic. His university announced that the government of the Republic of Serbia has concluded that all diplomas from its university are considered valid, and it is a university that has been rejected for 10 years by all the institutions responsible for accreditation in this country, whether they are first-degreed or second-degreed. When you talk about how the IT sector is booming, Mrs. Brnabic, answer us how is it possible for your staff, let's say, at the University of Novi Sad, to manipulate the number of students who are enrolling in certain study groups, to allow private business partners that are booming, and to prevent, say, the new Sad, from coming to the IT industry in Novi Sad, a new competing company that will make competition for business partners from your party in Novi Sad? When you talk about the rationalization of the administration, you first talk, Mrs. Brnabic, about layoffs in education and health care, and we hire people as container guards in Novi Sad. That's what happens in the public administration that you're supposedly rationalizing. As someone said on one of the social networks, to me, let's say, it's not a problem that Minister Vulin didn't go to the military and he'll be the defence minister. I'm having a little bit of a problem with the fact that different science doctors around you didn't go to college. That, say, bothers me. I see you don't mind, Mrs. Brnabic. Well, things are so that either it's supposed to start bothering you, or tell us, or you want to make a statement about whether people who beat journalists should be rewarded? Let it begin to bother you with everything I've talked about or you have no right to tell us about modern, democratic and orderly Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18406	The word has an Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18407	I'll say a few things. I'll start with an explanation for the voter's list and the amazing information that someone believes that there are 1 million more voters in the voter list than the full-time citizens of Serbia. That's really amazing information. If you have Serbian citizens who live in Serbia, according to the census, you have a certain number, then you probably have some people living abroad, right, some diaspora? You see, these people didn't participate in the censorship but they have the right to vote, unless you're saying we should abolish their right to vote? A million voters over the age of Serbian citizens are people who did not participate in the censorship, and, you know, among other things, that in the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac people boycotted censorship, for example, but have the right to vote, so for example, these are some of the non-existent ones. Furthermore, these are people who live abroad, people who live in Australia, Canada, a huge diaspora in America. These people didn't participate in the censorship, but they're on the voter's list and they have the right to vote. That's the million voters. It's quite simply an explanation, and it's amazing that you don't know that, but you're just saying that you'd be disabling the citizens. As for the debt of local self-government, I say again -- we have a lot of better experts on how to make debts of local self-government, and we have a little less experts on how these debts are settled, but that's what I said several times and yesterday how it's done. So, this is done by rationalising local self-government, it's done with strict control now, through the Ministry of Finance's rhinosystem, it's done, too, that we're trying to solve pharmacies and bring new jobs and investments, as well as by controlling our own incomes of local self-government. That's how we came, just now, to list illegal objects that have over two million. You'll agree that when they write, legalize, then 100% of the income tax goes into the budget of local self-government. When 146,000 hectares of the country are removed from the gray zone, for the first time in 2016, then 40% of the land's lease income goes to the local self-government budget. That's how we try to settle the debts of local self-government. As for party employment, I said, in rationalization we have 39,000 people now, of which six and a half thousand were in local self-government, by the end of 2017 an additional two and a half thousand people in local self-government, by allowing employment in those local self-governments that are well below the minimum. So we can't talk about party employment. We can possibly talk about party layoffs, because we rationalize the entire public administration, so people don't get hired, they get fired. I also find it amazing and I don't know how to interpret that you Serbian Progressive Party, here, but a day and a half, not to mention this earlier, calling out why they gave the place, the biggest place, the Prime Minister, why they put the candidate as Prime Minister who is impartial, but at the same time you say no, and the Prime Minister must be party, and we are talking about party employment. The people gave a non-partisan personality authority to be Prime Minister. And for that, but for that too, the Serbian Progressive Party has been criticised. As far as wastewater is concerned, it is a disaster that they are not in Belgrade, that purification of waste water, and that's really terrible. Here, in India and Subotics, wastewater purifiers have just finished and are either in the negotiations phase, for Raska, Brus, Blace, Kruševac, Vranje, Loznica, Kraljevo, Nis and Belgrade. It could have been faster, probably, but, well, come on, we're working on it slowly. As for wages and our citizens working for one dollar, I think it is important to mention that in the term of Prime Minister Vukic, the government twice increased with the National Educational Council the minimum labour price, on January 1, 2015 by 5.22%, from 115 dinar to 121 dinar per hour and on January 1, 2017 by 7.44% to 130 dinar per hour. I'm sure it can do better and it'll be better, just to settle those debts and those loans that cost us 150 kilometers of highway a year. As for subsidies and bringing in new investors, several data that I think are relevant to the citizens of Serbia, which is that in the first quarter of 2017, compared to the first quarter of 2014, exports from Serbia are higher by 37.4%, and that investments are increased by 10%, that exports reached 1.5 billion euros in March 2017, which is the monthly volume higher than ever, so that subsidies seem to me, pay off. The policy of granting subsidies to the Government of the Republic of Serbia is well thought out and smart, so I think we're going to continue with it anyway. They are not bigger than in the countries of the region, according to the World Bank. The World Bank analyses showed that subsidies to investors given from Serbia's budget are returning to the budget in 14 months. That's what the World Bank wrote. After 14 months, it is a net revenue for Serbia's budget, therefore, for all citizens of Serbia. At an approved 125.4m euros, in five years, the company will pay 512.8m euros to the state, one invested four euros. It's an analysis of the World Bank, completely objective again. As for subsidies, also for citizens to understand clearly and loudly, subsidies for new jobs are also given to domestic investors. Among the projects at this point we have five domestic investors – we have seven from Germany, we have three from Italy, three from America, three from the Netherlands, two from Turkey, two from Canada, etc. So five domestic investors, and this goes back four times in the budget to one invested euro and is strictly monitored. Can you do better? Sure, just a little more time and it'll get even better. As far as rationalisation is concerned, rationalisation has never, ever, since December 2013, since the reform of public administration started, been conducted in health care on medical staff. It was conducted on nonmedical staff where we had excesses. Moreover, four and a half thousand new jobs are allowed only medical staff in the health care of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the beating squads are concerned, the investigation has been launched, the police and the prosecution are working on it. and no one died, which was the case in the past. As far as the National Educational Council is concerned, you are calling on the body as a reference that has been in fact against the introduction of mandatory IT into primary school, and you know it. So, don't call on a body that's against the mandatory introduction of IT into schools. That's why it's such a success that they've finally allowed it now and that since September we've had IT since the fifth grade of primary schools. I hope I've at least given you a relevant answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18408	Thank you. (Dusan Pavlovic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (Dusan Pavlovic: I was okay with it. Did she answer to you? You've been discussing it now? (Dusan Pavlovic: You weren't there. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18409	Thank you, Chairman. I will be very brief in this debate on the proposal for a decision on the choice of the Serbian government, in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Today's exposés that we heard and the draft composition of the future Serbian government are the result of the resignation of current Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandr Vukic because he won the elections. He won the presidential elections for the Republic of Serbia on April 2nd and won a convincing victory, won over two million votes from Serbian citizens, won more than a convincing victory, a victory some MPs and some political parties can only dream of. I am pleased, Mr. Chairman, that in today's debate, you will agree, we have not heard one single fundamental argument, no single fundamental objection, no objection to the exposures we've heard, no previous work of the Government of Serbia, no biography of the prime minister, no biography of candidates for government members, so we haven't heard any of that. None of them tried to challenge neither the expertise, nor the competence, nor the commitment, nor the entrepreneurship of the prime minister, but others, I say, the candidate for ministers. That's what's good. What's not good is it's not a good thing that we've been around here for what time we've heard nothing but pointless accusations, corny phrases, phrases, so nonsense and lies and fiction. Here, and we just heard, by who knows which way, a lie and some beating of journalists, etc. Please stop making this up. So don't make it up. No one's been beaten, absolutely no one. Everyone's been invited to talk, everyone's made statements, the investigation's been conducted, and we've come to the conclusion that one person has minor physical injuries. Don't make it up anymore. In any case, the investigation will show what happened and everything will be determined. But anyway, it's much less than when you killed people. You killed Ranko Panic at the rally. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. What does this look like? Who killed people? ) It is more unacceptable for me to hear from the same ones who have destroyed and destroyed both the Serbian economy and the Serbian economy for years and decades, carried out the worst possible robbery privatisation, sold out everything they could to sell out, and left a bunch of workers out of work. Hundreds of thousands of workers are out of work in your time. Closed companies, businesses, factories, drove people out into the street, destroyed the military and the entire defense system of our country, demoted the police, implemented the worst possible, as they say, judicial reform, practically created a party judiciary in their time. They have declared their commitment to the EU, to European integration, but only declaratively, because in practice they have done nothing alive to meet any European standards under any segment. They made Serbia a deeply corrupt and criminalised society, a deeply divided society. So, in all segments, they've made a mess and left us with the legacy of making Serbia a decent, modern and orderly country, and we're on the right track, thanks primarily to Alexander Vukic. They didn't remember in any sentence to mention that in 2016, only according to VAT and excise tax was charged close to 100 billion dinars more than before, compared to, say, 2014 is 5.7% increase. Inflation has been stable and low for the third year in a row, actually more than three years in a row. In 2013 the inflation rate was 7.8% and in 2016 it was 1.2%. So these are the facts. It may hurt, but it's facts. Public debt has been reduced by 3.3% of GDP as a result of successful fiscal consolidation, as well as accelerated economic growth. As we heard yesterday and today in the debate, significant progress has been made on the world's Duing Business List. Serbia's credit rating has been significantly improved. So that's what you can't argue, and that's something you're not trying to mention in the debate, but just, I repeat, a bunch of phrases, a bunch of accusations of unfounded, lies and fiction. Finally, none of them even tried to challenge what is a fact, which is that today is the first time we have spotless public finances and that the public finances of the Republic of Serbia are today at the purest, to say, level in history, and that the fiscal deficit has been reduced by 5.3% of GDP. To avoid debt, I promised to be brief, because of the time left for the parliamentary group, I want to express my hope and I am confident that this government will be the government of continuity in that sense. That's why I want to call on the MPs to support the government's motion for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18410	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18411	Mr Arsic, what does it look like that you don't react when the previous spokesman calls DS's MPs murderers, and he hears it from the prime minister who said the same thing - that no one has been killed? Who did we kill? I can tell you in the end, it doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure, you were obliged to take away Mr. Markovic's word, to give him a warning. I'm advertising a member and 107th and a member of 108th because he directly called DS MPs murderers. You don't mind, you laugh at it. He did it in a moment. While there is a man who sent tanks to the students – Alexander Vulin. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18412	Are you done, fellow Milojits?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18413	He accuses us of being murderers. What does it look like, calling us murderers without you hearing it? What does that look like? It really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18414	Mr. Milojicic, I wish I could trust you, and now you're telling a lie right now. You said when I listened to you laugh at you, and I was serious.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18415	Take a stenogram and check it out. You laughed while he spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18416	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18417	Yes, it is. What does it look like nobody's responding?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18418	Don't tell me what I was doing about it, I didn't hear at any time that Mr. Markovic said someone in the DS killed someone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18419	Take a stenogram and check it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18420	I've been listening great. He said, "ex-government." Do you consider yourself responsible?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18421	Are you kidding me?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18422	I'm not joking with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18423	What does it look like to call anyone here a murderer? That's what the prime minister did.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18424	Mr. Milojich, my tires will be in danger again. I give you a warning. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18425	Article 27. Mr. Arsic, you and I have been MPs for a long time. We have a rather correct relationship, and we know that the National Assembly is a living body and that there is a live debate. It's hard to always talk all the time, injure the Rules of Procedure to put in shape the agenda or in violation of the Rules of Procedure. We from the opposition are often tolerated to such outbursts. But come on, now, between you and me, do you think you shouldn't have responded to Mr. Markovic's speech?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18426	Just as much as I should have responded to my colleague Jerkov's speech, who said we beat up reporters.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18427	She said that some of the beatings were documented in photographs, but now it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Arsic. Anyone who throws one of these stupid political hooks won't come across our reaction. We'll leave it alone in that political mud. We don't want to react to anything like that. You have to react to something like that. She must be reacting to the Prime Minister, and now I understand why she doesn't have a word in the exposé about human rights, minority rights, political minorities. Now it's absolutely clear to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18428	There are no political minorities. There are MPs who support the government and who do not support it. Otherwise, there were cases that the largest parliamentary clubs were opposition. It's no big deal. The word has been made by MP Miljan Damjanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18429	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Ms. Brnabic, unlike others, I will not talk about ministers because simply, there are no new faces in this government, and Serbian citizens know well who they are and what they are and what they are not capable of. It's too short a time to talk in detail about the exposé, although we should accept this as a fact that this is one list of wishes and promises, so the right time for that will only come when we consider what's been done. The wish list is here, but what's the basic question? The basic question – what will you be able to do and will it allow you to do something and how much will you do? Whether you accept it or not, Miss Brnabic, you will likely become the Prime Minister with the slightest political weight in history. If you'll get it over time, we'll see about that. It's up to you somewhere. But while you're thinking about it and I'm guessing things are going through your head, I keep thinking about an anthological scene from Marathon and reading the will, and that's -- I'm sorry that you're mine, not the children of my enemy. Whoever knew you, hell wouldn't be too hard on him. I hope because of this, I'm saying that your enemies are not on this side of the hall, which is supposed to be in normal democratic society. We are here to criticise you, to speak of what is not good and to point to certain things, but Mrs. Brnabic today is being torn down by those who will most likely raise their hand for your choice. I will start with your proposal for prime minister, the great leader when he held consultations and were representatives of the Serbian Progressive Party, it was legitimate to give the mandate, as they asked, to the Serbian Progressive Party. You can't give an arbitrary mandate to someone who says he doesn't have a majority and that's what happened. The Serbian Progressive Party did not get a mandate, and then there was a situation that we followed in the media that Aleksandar Vukic was hoping after he showed you confidence and realized that there was no majority in parliament, he had to run to the party and beg MPs to vote for you. Where it exists in a democratic world, here you go, we'll take it right away. On the other hand, these consultations, as some earn, have been formal, on these consultations there are gentlemen sitting here, asking for a mandate from their ranks and cannot simply be believed that the president of the state has arbitraryly decided to give someone the right to be... What's also not good and proof that it's not well-intentioned, that you're not proposed, the representatives of the ruling coalition then put your sexual commitment into media focus, talk about origin and the like. Even Vulin went one step further, said openly and said there were better candidates, but we'll vote for her because that's what Vukic said. If they really wanted to praise you, I guess they'd be talking about your abilities and what you've been doing in the past ten months as a minister. We don't have a case like that here. Also, I quote representatives of the ruling regime, he says – they will support you as long as you are, I will insert the word, guided by the path, they have told Vukic's path, so, I guess from case to case, you will follow that you may not stray from the leader's path, or from Jozha's path. Yesterday in front of the cameras here, a representative of the ruling majority said, quote - I will not vote for you for well-known reasons. What are those reasons? I guess it's not because of your hair, I guess. But what the main question is, you don't have a family and he doesn't like your sexual commitment. That is why a representative of the ruling majority will not vote. If someone had said that from the opposition, it would have been momentarily stamped. We'll agree to that, we had that situation. But he says, the same MP in the ruling majority, that he supports Vukic and remains part of the ruling coalition even though he will not vote for the government and the prime minister. Now the question is, where is it? How is it possible that someone who does not support the government and the prime minister can remain part of the government? If he's ashamed to vote for you, as he's practically getting out of the context of his words, will he be ashamed to have him stay in the ruling coalition and come tomorrow and look for places for the ministries, which by some public enterprises and so on. On the other hand, we had that, that the advances were praised for the government's composition, that they had no ideology and that we had just those who were to integrate with Russia to those who are for the NATO Pact. What is it, if Miss Brnabic doesn't tie them to ideology? What binds them? Well, they're interested. I believe that you are unable to fulfill that interest and I believe that you will not, but it certainly will, because they all voted and will vote because Alexander Vukic told you to vote for you. It is my opinion that the great leader will do everything in public, and also for you, to present that you are autonomous, will even take advantage of his media opportunity, thank God he has it at his disposal. The function of the Prime Minister is the most powerful in the country, but when you have a strong party behind you. Take an example of Tomislav Nikolic. He then obeyed his student, or his son, political son, Alexander Vukic, resigned as party president to be the president of all citizens. Well, why now if it's so nice and good, why doesn't the president of the SNS do the same, or the president of the state, and resign. No, he won't do it because he has to preserve his political power, and you saw how Tomislav Nikolic ended up. The moment he didn't need it anymore, he retired him and he'll do the same to you. He was simply, what was the goal, it was my opinion, he wanted to melt the blade of criticism towards himself and to point at you at one point. Why? Because in the past few years, he's been pointing out, I'm this, I'm what, I'm not gonna let even though the IMF said he needs an increase in wages and pensions, I'm not giving. I'm not gonna let you cut pensions. It's my call. I said it. Quiet there and everything else he did. Someone who says all that then accepts guilt and responsibility. It takes someone who will then take responsibility and blame on himself, and my guess is that's why he entrusted it to you. I'm sorry you have to take over now, and you have to fire the opposition and responsibility, but you're in a situation like this. That is why he will publicly take your future conflicts with the members of the government on your side and that is not disputed. I wouldn't even be surprised if you were to expose a minister who stood up to you, but your position as Prime Minister would only be until the moment he thought he needed you for it. From another antiquity, when you spoke about KIM yesterday, you presented the same thing as in the exposé of the previous prime minister, which is that since 2015 the Serb municipalities community should be resolved and established. If we have so many of these great friends in the West, why didn't someone press the Cypriot authorities and solve that question if it was signed in Brussels? On the other hand, what we as Serbian radicals will never allow is that when you subtract from the budget, local budgets, the city, you rob the citizens of financial resources to applaud you. If you've already taken away from them because they were unable to make certain mayors, and these were then the mayors of Belgrade, Nis, and it seems to me to be Novi Sad, if they weren't able to invest in certain infrastructures, then because of their inability to resign and we hope that this will no longer happen in this way, they'll put in capable, honest and honest people who will know that the rights of funds are being invested first, where citizens need it most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18430	Thank you. The word has an Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18431	Thank you. As for the political power that the President of the Republic has, it has worked for me all these years, he seems to be learning all his political power from the results of the government's unquestionable work. So we have this result of the government's work. This is all we've been talking about these last two days, that's what the citizens recognize, then the citizens vote. The more citizens vote, the more political power he has. So there is certainly a huge political power that draws from results, not from authoritative any dictatorial powers, unquestionable results. As for how someone votes or doesn't vote, everyone has the right to vote as they please. I'm here to present my government program, present my team and let the MPs vote or not vote. I can't get into it if someone's gonna vote for me and my team or not, or they're gonna vote today, and they're not gonna vote tomorrow, or not today, and then tomorrow they want to vote. Well, you people are MPs. You all represent hundreds of thousands of citizens here, each of you. You decide whether to vote like this or vote tomorrow. What I sincerely hope for and why I'm fighting here and yesterday and today, and I'm trying to answer all the questions, and why I have all the data and information is because I hope that a number of MPs will admit the result, see them, accept them, and that this government will only have a growing and greater number of votes in this National Assembly, that other people will actually join the majority in the Assembly when they understand and accept the government's results and want to support it to go faster and better, so that's the answer to that. I had two answers left before this. One is around the university and the decision was made on the basis of the same decisions on d. 2003, 2009, 2015. The government in that decision does not adopt an act on accreditation, but on the temporary importance of diploma by the end of accreditation, until the completion of the accreditation carried out by the independent body of the CAPK. (Alexandra Jerkov: Accreditation completed. ) As for the New Sad and the employment of container keepers, I want to tell you that in Novi Sad the situation was slowly in order, but it was a catastrophic situation regarding the number of employees. So, December 2013, Novi Sad, total number of employees 9.249. The optimal number of employees for Novi Sad is 6,208. Only 50% more employees in the town of Novi Sad, who are paid out of their citizens' budgets, that's all. Then, since December 2013, rationalization begins. In December 2014, the number was reduced to 8,943, so in December 2015 it further reduced to 8,691, so in December 2016 it further reduced to 8,098. For the maximum number of employees, we gave Novi Sad until December 2017 to further reduce to 7,898 to bring it to 6,208 by 2020, how optimal it is and how many citizens should pay. That's what this is all about when we talk about a serious, responsible state administration that keeps an eye on citizens' finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18432	Thank you. The word is Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18433	Thank you, President. Mrs. Brnabic, I don't think you understand. Novi Sad, three weeks ago, hired people as container guards, not in 2009, not in 2010, not in 2011 and not in 2012, but in June 2017, Novi Sad signed a contract with the New Sad City Agency, and the job of certain people in the town of Novi Sad will be to keep containers, which is usually the job of the municipal police. As for the University of our fellow Mufti Zukorlic, firstly, Mr. Sarcevic, you should be ashamed of what you said about the National Educational Council. These are the people you chose, the president you chose. Our education is what it is. These are the people we have. The fact that you don't like their decisions, maybe you should talk to them, not disqualify them. This shows how you will include this dialogue you started talking about. As for Mufti University, Mrs. Brnabic, he cannot accredit a single programme from year to year for ten years. From the accreditation cycle to the accreditation cycle he submits a request for accreditation and is rejected by all. Both the Quality Control Accreditation Commission and the National Higher Education Council, which is a second-degree body in that case, and you decide a week ago that their diplomas are considered valid until the accreditation process is completed. How many times does it take to be rejected for accreditation to say hey, so maybe this isn't a knowledge-based society that we're after, maybe this college really doesn't meet the conditions for accreditation, let's stop making concessions, let's stop, let's just remember to say that maybe we shouldn't...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18434	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun. (Miljan Damjanovic: Replica. You have no basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18435	Dear President, Mrs Brnabic, candidates for ministers, fellow MPs, a programme presented to us is an advanced concept of building a modern, prosperous state that will be in the role of citizens, raising the quality of life. For the implementation of this programme, Mrs Brnabic, you have full, strong, unique SNS support, which has the support of most citizens. I'll focus only on a few elements of the program you've presented. The chapter of Serbia's integration with Europe and the world. The fact is that things are a politic international order. Serbia, however, is in the centre, conditioned to say, of the south wing of Euro-Atlantic space and that defines our place in the world, strategic priorities and attitude towards the centres of power. In addition to our strategic commitment to EU membership, very good bilateral co-operation and strategic partnership with countries like Russia and China, I believe it is of particular importance, precisely because of this newly created geopolitical position of Serbia, to build stable, developing bilateral relations with the United States, which have the highest capacity to influence the processes in this region. Chapter – Close co-operation with countries in the region. I believe that co-operation with the neighbours is the first and most important ring of our foreign policy action and positioning. Serbia has won its position as regional leader, a fundamental pillar of regional security and co-operation. That position should be promoted in the next period, because it will also strengthen our overall security. The issue of Kosovo and Metohija is crucial for the future of Serbia, the Serbian people, the future of Republika Srpska, our European perspective. The issue, however, is not solved by high-level disqualifications, emotions, hard speeches, hard words, advocating some kind of fiery solution from Belgrade. It's the wrong way. In this way, we will not resolve the issue of Kosovo and Metohija. You cited as one of the goals of the government's historic compromise and reconciliation of the Serbian and Albanian people. In that you have my full unreserved support. However, it is necessary to define a sustainable model for the process. We can't be eternal enemies. It is without perspective for both us and them, both for the Serbian people and for the Albanian people. We must finally close that huge crack between us and the Albanians. The proposal by the President of the Republic to launch an internal dialogue on further policy on the Kosovo issue, I think, is of particular importance, precisely because of the changing geopolitical circumstances in which Serbia is located. We need political support from Russia to prevent the membership of Cosmet as some kind of para-state in the UN. But we need to, in order to defend Cosmet, make constant progress in building our relations with the EU and with the United States. Who doesn't realize it today is on the wrong path when it comes to the defense of Cosmet. Strong support for the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija, mostly through the Government of Serbia's Office for Kosovo and Metohija, must continue in the coming period, to correct the perceived shortcomings and help our people survive. Continuing dialogue is something that has no alternative. In fact, there is an alternative, and it will lead us to new senses. A community of Serb municipalities is a fundamental pillar of the normalisation process of relations and of the Brussels Agreement. Without its formation, there is no process of normalization of relationships, no follow-up, no such thing as what was. However, I think we're going to face the fact that we need to see what we're going to do with Chapter 35. Changes in the assessment of progress in this chapter are necessary. We cannot allow ourselves to be held hostage to Pristina's irresponsible behaviour in the normalisation of relations process. Our relationship and our contribution to the normalisation of the process must be treated separately through Chapter 35, from what Pristina is doing, and this is a complete block of the process and finalisation and creation of Serb municipalities communities. In Chapter – Advocating peace, stability and security, I want to tell you that terrorism, predominantly radical Islamic terrorism and jihadism are a long-term threat to the security of our country and our citizens. You stated that Serbia supports the fight against the Islamic state. The most important aspect of the fight, however, is within Serbia. This means preventing funding, recruiting, acting, and we need a new model of a united anti-terrorism strategy, which this government, I am confident, will be able to find and build. That fight will be long lasting. We need to prepare continuous personnel, educate them, train them, equip them, perfect them, so that they can fight terrorism together on an international basis. We need stronger capacities to prevent and threaten the security of the country and cyberspace, which will increase in the coming period. Also, I think it is necessary, Mrs Brnabic, to define in the coming period a comprehensive strategy to counter hybrid warfare against our country, i.e. trying to get over the so-called. soft powers affect the country's internal political, economic, security processes. It must be one of the pillars of the defence and national security doctrine in the coming period. You also listed, we expect greater intensity and frequency of natural disasters. Of course, for this we need to strengthen the capacities that we can face natural disasters, such as the capacity of the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre, which, unfortunately, has recently become the subject of the geopolitical confrontation of major forces. That's why it's necessary to know the truth about the center. I can't accept that center as some kind of spy center. Someone point out what spy equipment they saw in that center. Just to point out, a group of power centers of 100 people saved over 2,200 people during the catastrophic floods, of which 604 children. They also helped Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania, helping migrants, demining. So far, four million square meters have been cleaned. The most modern method of predicting and modeling emergency situations is used and uses data from Russian satellites. The centre has handed over 18 fire trucks, training and training, and has co-operation, for example. with the rescue association of Hungary. So, where are the spies? Let the ambassador of one country, who says Serbia has no control or the possibility of inspection control over the centre explain the fact, who the director of the centre, members of the Serb side of the supervisory board, are delegated to the board of directors by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So we have full control of what the center is doing. If we allow the irresponsible statements of individuals that were in this House to make us accept the imposed claim that this is a spy centre, then we become a hostage to Russia and the United States' geopolitical confrontation, and that cannot possibly be the interest of our country. You listed, too, Mrs. Brnabic, full commitment to human and minority rights. I fully support you. But I think you should pay particular attention to building international relations in southern Serbia, where both Albanians and Roma and Serbs live, especially the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. The economic development of the region, in order to narrow down space for extreme political ideas, such as the one about Albania's great, more intense involvement of Albanians in state institutions, something that will be the best defense against all of that. There's no speech in the war crimes detection and processing program. I expect you will provide full support to the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, especially the new prosecutor and the willingness to prosecute and crimes against the Serb people, which has not been the case so far because it has been very restrictively done. I would like to inform you that both the National Assembly Committee on Kosovo and Metohija have formed a Working Group that collects evidence of the crimes committed by members of the terrorist KLA and that we are in direct communication with the Specialized Prosecutor's Office for the KLA. I think we're gonna do a big job so criminals can be brought to justice. That's why I expect you to give this task force full support. In the end, you stated – people are the greatest value. At the centre of action, the government needs to be a citizen, to understand citizens' problems, to understand the suffering of the people, to make life better for all people. That's why I'm giving you support. Do not let down any of us messengers who show you trust, or citizens who expect a better life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18436	Thank you. The word is Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18437	Dear Prime Minister, I don't know if you remember that, but you were present here last year as a candidate for the minister when I reminded the Prime Minister Vukic of his promise not from the 2016 exposé, but from those promises from the 2014 exhibition that he would open the National Museum. He then replied that the National Museum would be opened in his next term, that is, in the next year, which, unfortunately, did not happen. I heard that you also looked back at the opening in your exposé and said that you would do everything in your power to open the National Museum and the Museum of Contemporary Art. I think you now have a great opportunity to go literally into history after so long as the prime minister who will be able to open the National Museum, and also, you could go into history for a lot of things, say, to raise wages and pensions, to free the media, to solve the Savamal case, to solve the helicopter case, to introduce tax payments to the church, to examine all suspicious doctorates and diplomas, to stop the white plague, to make sure that children are no longer treated with SMS but therapy, to prevent corruption, to stop Serbia from borrowing, to carry out judicial reform, and if you would make sure that at least some of those responsible for Serbia's collapse in previous years come to justice, which, by my opinion, has not happened at all. You have been told a lot about these days, but regardless of what is said, the fact is that the greatest political power in Serbia is in your hands today. The political power of Serbia is no longer officially in the hands of Alexander Vukic. You wrote in your exposé -- where the greater rights are, there's a greater responsibility. The greatest power and greatest responsibility in Serbia from now on are in your hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18438	Thank you. The word is by the MP of the people Snezana B. Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18439	Thank you. Dear Presidents, Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear Mrs Brnabic, you who are with your team candidate for Prime Minister and candidates for Ministers, have heard your exposés and have heard that the PUPS parliamentary group will give support. In my presentation, in front of the Committee on Business I run, I will look back at the economy and the economy of this country and, as you said, and as the official data says, and we already have data from the first quarter of this year, the results are impressive and should continue. We need both economic and economic growth. Of course, we are aware of new, existing, current investments, investments, factories and new jobs, and of course it has contributed to these impressive results. But we still need further investment, further investment, new factories, expansion of production and new jobs. Saving policy, it is possible and necessary to a certain extent, but in the long run it is unsustainable and we all know it well. New jobs, why new jobs? Here, for a few reasons. New investments, new investments, new jobs, will stop the outflow of young people, and that's the first thing. That's what's very important to us. The second thing, it will also be new inflows for the budget through different basics, which are taxes, contributions and other contributions, which will contribute to improving citizens' standards, their purchasing and consumer power. This, of course, for the ultimate goal is to further reduce the unemployment rate, which is one of yours, but also our goals. Real growth in the first quarter of GDP is 1%. It is estimated to be 3% this year. This is an average higher than the European average. These are estimates, and it is up to you and your team to realize them, that is to stimulate further growth, development and profitability in all sectors. Here we are half a year and soon you'll have the results for the first six months, and that's good, because you'll be able to intervene where you need it, to continue with the achievement of the further surplus. The growing traffic of goods in retail trade, we record the exceptional results of the service sector, we expect growth in agriculture, industry, construction and energy, you have an extremely good and favourable movement in the foreign trade, you have talked about it, but I think there is plenty of room for even better results. Serbia's decision to gradually deleverage is good and should continue to reduce the budget deficit with respect to the precautionary principle. That's what we talked about when the budget was adopted, and that's briefly. Here we are now with what has been a very difficult, serious and responsible decision for us from PUPS. Consciously and responsibly, knowing that we need to support fiscal consolidation measures, to support the stabilisation of our country, we have done so with full consciousness what a burden it is to bear the group that we represent, which are pensioners and employees. Today, the results of fiscal consolidation are very visible and that's good. The conditions are being met, as the current prime minister and new president of the state, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, announced, to increase wages and pensions, and that is necessary, because indeed the greatest burden has been borne by workers and pensioners, and now they need to be released from that burden. You have announced reforms in the state administration and state-owned enterprises. I agree it's necessary, but it should be done with caution. I'm opposed to firing employees and groups from which I come, or the PUPS party is an opponent. It is very important for us to streamline costs and manage costs wisely. I believe that in other public enterprises, state-owned enterprises have room for cost reduction and proper management of the same, but please have an accent on the revenue side. I deeply believe that such behaviour and household business can result in an increase in income, i.e. an increase in profits, i.e. a more serious charge of the budget, which would allow for a safe, regular and full payment of pensions. For the right to talk about this, it gives me my experience from one big system that I've been working on for over 25 years. We managed to reform ourselves with our own forces, rationalise our costs, increase our revenues, invest in the budget 1% annually. For the term of office of our previous director, and now candidate for minister on your team, our company has paid 100m euros in the Republic of Serbia's budget in four years. These are irrefutable facts, and I ask you, given this fact, to pay particular attention to all state-owned enterprises and to make every effort to make the current employees of the maximum employment, to earn, to create new values, to fill the budget, to keep their jobs, to find new jobs, because we will certainly preserve the existing employees and to further employ them in accordance with the law. What's a man? The man is what we PUPS are putting at the heart of our actions, our concerns and our insistence and our policy-making towards betterment for man. Politics for politics, criticism for criticism, we resolutely reject it, but it's the man we have to worry about. These are our pensioners, 1,700,000 of them or a little over it. They're employees of our country. They're farmers. They're very important to us. We've already talked about pensioners, the way they live with dignity and feel a real improvement in the state register is a improvement in their wallet, and that's what we'll agree on. Where are the employees here? Only our MPs or PUPS representatives who had the opportunity to manage or manage certain companies were fully aware of corporate social responsibility and applied it. Yeah, yeah, it's not a joke, it's a big one. Corporate social responsibility has two segments – internal responsibility and external responsibility. Why the employees? Yeah, they're in that segment of internal responsibility. Care for employees, collective bargaining, preserving and preserving jobs, but only by finding new jobs and maximum employment and creating new values and new results, adequate collective agreements, collective bargaining in accordance with the law... One of the collective agreements is that which we have concluded in the Post Office of Serbia, which applies to one of the best, and Minister Rasim Ljajic knows about it and the unions talk about it at their meetings. As far as external responsibility is concerned, I think that our domestic companies and businesses, as well as foreign companies operating here, in Serbia's space. What's so important about that? It is important that they refer to the community in which they operate, here in Serbia, in the same way as they do in the countries where they came from, to contribute to the wider community or local community, and that they apply, as we do, that internal and external responsibility. The third one. They're farmers. So, with the fact that we have 4,700 villages, that 1,200 villages are dying, that 631 000 registered households are rural in which our existence is generated by 1,400,000,00 of our residents, citizens, farmers. That's one-fifth of Serbia. It's not negligible, it's extremely important, and the government, whose head you're going to be, and the projects you've supported, and the ministers in charge of the realisation of that policy, have to do it seriously, because these people need both travel and traffic and health and education infrastructure, so that they can function uninterruptedly. What's most important is this big project to revitalise or revive cooperatives. That support was received from you in the government, received from SANU, was obtained from the Serbian Orthodox Church, but also here in the tide, finally all of us Serbs agreed on something.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18440	Time. Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87(3). Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours. The word has been made by the People's MP Milena Turk.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18441	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at yesterday's session, we had the opportunity to hear the exposés of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, the framework plan of work of the future government, but also to sum up the results so far. This is an opportunity to draw the line and look at the effects of work so far, but also the opportunity to continue with the programme that the government has so far had, to continue continuity, because this policy has just received the greatest support of citizens. We are responsible for these citizens, who unequivocally supported the policy led by Aleksandar Vukic, who clearly said that this is the only time, despite the difficult measures that have been taken, that this policy is the only real and possible and that it simply has no alternative. The exposure states that the objectives of the government are economic development and stability, and I would really agree that these are key words, because when we talk about stability, that is, in fact, a prerequisite for development, for encouraging investment, investor security and sustainability guarantee. Focus is strengthening Serbia's international position, but it is also aimed at making Serbia a strong, economically developed country that will enjoy the reputation and respect of the world and in which it can live decently. We have a number of challenges ahead of us. It is certain that it will not be easy in the next period, but it is also clear that Serbia must have the strength and be strong enough to cope with these difficulties. It will continue to maintain good neighbourly relations, foster dialogue, encourage partnership, and Serbia will continue to show that it is ready to be a leader in the region. When it comes to expose, I would point out the importance of having the accent placed on the infrastructure, of course I am talking about the Moravia Corridor, which will link Pojate and Preljina, and whose design documentation is expected because infrastructure is a prerequisite for investors. They expect a ready-made infrastructure, a local self-government that will co-operate and prepare personnel. One of the government's priorities is also investment in the defence industry, in the dedicated industry. Only the purpose in Tristenik, over the past few months, has received 3.5m euros for the purchase of new machines, which is of course an exceptional measure, an exceptional incentive and will provide modernisation and development of production capacities, greater competitiveness, demand for products, but also an opportunity for new employment. As far as agriculture is concerned, I also welcome the measure to help producers to ensure that they are placed on foreign markets and investment in processing capacity. The fact is that we have extremely high quality products, but it's important that we increase their price through processing capacity. The merger is also something the accent was put on, as it will achieve a better price and competitive for farmers. I would like to point out another very significant result of the Ministry of Agriculture, as last term passed the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, and for the first time the needs of Kalemar were recognised. In this law a legal framework was created for incentives for the Kalemars, which is extremely important for the Kalemars of the municipality of Trstenik. I really welcome this measure and thank Minister Nedimovic for having a servant and listening to the needs and suggestions of the Kalemara. Of course, funds have been identified in the budget and the regulation has been published, where through the measures and conditions prescribed, funds are provided to subsidise the production of vine-sad material, certification and economic production. So, for the first time in this term, the Kalemars were given their place and this production was recognised. This will, of course, contribute to the preservation of domestic varieties, which is extremely important. In the end, we owe it to citizens who supported this policy, to be consistent and resilient, to achieve results, to be effective. We are obliged to, for the sake of citizens, who, despite the difficult measures, have given this policy support to achieve good results, to create a good business environment, to attract investors and to protect our interests and borders in the best possible way. A team of quality people, proposed by Mrs. Brnabic, is certainly an excellent setup that will contribute to the implementation of this programme and in the voting day, I will support this composition of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18442	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18443	There is very little time for very many topics, so many objections will not be able to be made, many false things will not be answered. But here, Mrs. Brnabic complained yesterday about the attacks and slanders she was exposed to, believe me, at least you have as much time as you want and you can answer that, but I understand when we skip some. A good part of direct or indirect insults, in fact, came long before it was known that you would be the prime minister, precisely by the ruling coalition's MPs. Either way, you complained, when it comes to opposition, about the word ficus, and I don't know, Mirko Cvetkovic, I didn't know that Mirko Cvetkovic was an insult when someone was told, but anyway. So, you deny them, Mrs. Brnabic, deny them, so show yourself, you will not be a ficus, or as it were, that you will not be a puppet in the hands of the President of the Republic. Of course, the President of the Republic, and not only because of his mandate and his position, but his function is nevertheless representative and, of course, has a certain legitimacy that stems from the way he was elected. But you, too, unfortunately, would say the most important political function in the state of Serbia, and I am waiting for you to act accordingly. On the other hand, I say, I'll be glad if you deny me and show that you'll be able to run this team that you and I and God both know, you didn't choose for yourselves, but it's largely imposed. There are not enough chairs here, or places, for all members of the government, and we are promised a small government. I would just remind myself that we had, in the environment, so we don't have to go far, Hungary has eight resolutions, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, about 14, plus one minus one, Romania, Bulgaria 16. I mean, this is one of the major governments in the region. This is about the government of continuity, yes, but that continuity is, in fact, I would say, bad, which doesn't mean that it wasn't done for something good, and it doesn't mean that there's something to be commended, and with the ministers of this government sometimes we used to, when there was a chance, to have constructive conversations when they came here with concrete and good suggestions. Unfortunately, it was more of an exception than a rule. When you boast about the results of the previous government, whose extension you are, then I would remind you of a data that is much less known and much less promoted, not only the increase in debt from 15.3 to 24.3 billion, but that the country's stock reserves fell from 12 billion to 9.4 billion. It's a significant fall since the entry into force, not from the previous one, but from your SNS government. So, foreign reserves are dropping, debt is growing, it was higher, now it's down by a few percent, we've discussed it with Mr. Vujovic. Since you are the most important political function in the country, from tomorrow and today, then I have to ask you – what about the suspension of the legal order in Savala? What do you intend to do about it? What about the assassination attempt, or the alleged assassination attempt, of Prime Minister Vukic in the Lambs? What about giving diplomatic status to the Russian humanitarian centre in Nis? So these are a couple of excellent political issues, and I expect you to be the most important political figure, a couple of excellent political answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18444	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18445	Thank you, Chairman. Mrs. Brnabic, ladies and gentlemen of the candidates for members of the Republic government, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is a great honor to have the opportunity to speak in the day we choose our country's government. It's also a big responsibility. All that we say today remains somewhere written down, remains in history, someone will one day read it, and I'm afraid one day someone will cross over when he reads what one speaker just said. It's Mrs. Brnabic and the Honorable Chairman, completely insignificant people, puppets, those who can't collect 1%, or 2%. Those who have fewer than invalid ballots shouldn't worry you, they don't need their opinion to worry you too much. It's those who are used to living on fake research, those who are used to caring only about their own self-interest. It's the ones who are used to living off the racketeering, the big commissions. This is a historic day for Serbia and for winning the prime minister's wife. This is a historic day for Serbia because we continue to continuance with the government it led, successfully led, best led so far by Aleksandar Vukic, with the government that had the best results, I can say freely in the modern political history of Serbia. Of course, there are a number of challenges ahead of your government, challenges when it comes to foreign policy, when it comes to, let's say, defence of KIM's status within the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to defending what we've all done together with Alexander Vukic, when it comes to financial stability. In front of us, and in front of the government that you will, I am confident that when elected at the end of this day and the fight, we will bring as many investors as possible, that the more people we hire, that we will continue to open highways, build bridges, continue a successful, strong and strong policy in which Serbia, I am confident at the end of this government's mandate, will be even stronger, even better, even more successful and, to say a more stable country. Serbia's position in the world is much better than it was five and ten years ago. Serbia has learned to win. Serbia is no longer a doormat, it is not a carpet on which whoever it wants, it is operating beyond its borders. He is talking to Serbia today with full respect. The government led by Aleksandar Vukic is responsible for that, and in that sense, we are asking for continuity from you. We ask for continuity from this government. I would also like to point out that some have talked about the expertise, the competence of those people you have proposed to be members of your government, your cabinet. You can talk about expertise when you compare your government's results to the results of this government, so when you say that 400,000 people were out of work in previous governments, there were no highways, there were bridges but at uncomparably higher prices than it was supposed to be, when there were no factories, when Serbia went deeper and deeper into the dubiosis. This government and the previous government have shown that it has expertise, that it has results, and in this sense we cannot say that there are no professional people in this government. I also want to commend it in the previous government, in the MUP, what is important for our citizens, the security issue, the ministry run by Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, which has achieved numerous results. First of all, to reduce the crime rate. Today in Serbia, next to school, they don't sell themselves freely to our children. Today, one who wants to deal with crime and corruption fears the hands of the government, the MUP, of police in Serbia. Today, there are no more criminals who are free to walk in Serbia and do whatever they want. Today, Serbia is a free country, stable, respected in the region, in the world, in Europe, and you will have the support of MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia if you continue to do so. Please continue as God has helped us all and how we have been better in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18446	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. You have 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18447	I'll try to keep what I say in those 30 seconds. So, Madam Prime Minister, it does not seem like a lady to the Serbian Dvora movement to impute what we didn't say. No one said that the Serbian Information Centre, which is at the Serbian Orthodox Church in London, is the headquarters of a foreign agent. When we talked about agents, we were thinking about your part of the biography where you say that the important stage in your business biography is to engage in various US consulting firms that have implemented projects in Serbia. We're talking about USAID, the NAED that was formed in 2006 and West East Bridge. That's the answer we were looking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18448	Anna Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18449	I'm an amazing combination between a ficus and a lady. I want to tell you first that I haven't complained about what I've been called in the last seven days. On the contrary, I said yesterday – call me whatever you want. Whatever you want to call me, it says more about you than it does about me. So feel free to hit your imagination at will and go ahead. More important than all that, together I wanted to inform the MPs that we now have two minutes ago two champions of the world in Tekvondo. Two days ago, Vanja Stankovic won gold at the world championship in Tekvondo, champion of the world at 19, our Vanja. Milica Mandic just won the gold, and that's what I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18450	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a 60-minute break. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. The first speaker is MP Vladimir Marinkovic. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18452	The Honorable President-in-Office, respected candidates for ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia is as key words and key messages within the framework of the exposés that we listened carefully to yesterday, Mrs. Brnabic, defined - modernization, the Fourth Technology Revolution, economic development, new employment, investment in education and science. These are the values that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia has already back several years of heritage, with which we agree and will contribute to the implementation of these ideas and all the projects initiated and passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we hope that when elected, this government, led by Ms. Brnabic, will continue to pursue this policy and implement it in favour of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and our country. What we would single out as the most important thing in the context of the exposé itself and the strategic plan of this government, is investment, and that is the development of those sectors that are pro-pulsive, which can lead to Serbia having a lot more jobs than today, to lead to Serbia respecting and raising values on which those modern countries, countries of developed democracy, developed economies, which is free entrepreneurship, that is a free market, that is respect for human rights and respect for labour rights. Of course, our social justice goals can only be realised through encouraging entrepreneurship, that our people, especially young people, have the freedom to run their jobs, to start private initiatives and to make Serbia definitely and in full capacity of equal opportunities – that they all have the right, in accordance with their opportunities, qualifications, skills, education, to find a good job, both in the private and public sectors, but also to start their own business and to have the opportunity to earn good money, to employ their families and thus to get to the goal of opening up more businesses in Serbia annually than they are closing down. In this way, through incentives, through the creation of a clear, good and quality legal framework, we create an economy that will be based on knowledge, based on family business, on competitiveness, on new knowledge and on new technologies. The development of information technologies, the improvement of study programmes at universities -- the requalification that Miss Brnabic has launched in the framework of her ministerial mandate and the retraining of people for IT sector jobs. The very fact that we lack 15,000 people, so we can hire them tomorrow, only if we have them, speaks enough about Serbia having a very high potential in this sector. I would disagree with colleagues who talk about us only having a chance when it comes to certain industrial branches based on work-intense technologies. No, people in Serbia, young people in Serbia, are educated, they are able, they have good qualifications, they have qualities and they can work within jobs and new technologies. This is important for Serbia because these new technologies and these business areas and sectors create the most jobs, create what Serbia needs most, which is to create additional values, create competitiveness, not just in relation to the region. We also want to be competitive with the EU countries, because, of course, everyone knows that the strategic goal of this former and future government is Serbia's full membership in the EU, co-operation and respect for those most developed countries, the world's most economically developed countries - in South Korea, the United States, Israel. I remind you, yesterday, the Prime Minister of Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu, opened a week of information technologies in Israel and defined Israel's priority to be one of the five countries in the world that will have the most developed area and will have the largest exports from this area. If that's what Israel does, why wouldn't Serbia do it when it has all the resources to do it? Of course, we need to have incentive policy, tax policy. We need to define a clear level and a clear policy of incentives for this sector in the Republic of Serbia and for all other sectors that can bring us a lot of jobs and that can bring us a lot of additional value. Of course, the prime minister also mentioned micro-finance. It's a very important thing. In this way we can create thousands of jobs, thousands of opportunities for employment and family business, and we will provide full support for the microfinance law. We will vote for him in the National Assembly to create this kind of funding for micro, small and medium-sized businesses in the Republic of Serbia. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the government's election day, support the election of the prime minister and all that is in line with the social democratic ideas, the social democratic principles as the leading idea of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18453	The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18454	Thank you. I'd like to refer to the section of the medical exposé. On these three and a half pages, which we saw in this written document, they mostly have their foothold in the previous exposé, because the key word that most paragraphs begin is going to continue, which is also logical, because the previous government lasted less than a year, and larger projects require longer to do so. There is, however, one part of the previous exposé about which there is no word here, and as far as health care is concerned, so my question has a foothold in that part of the exposé, so in the spirit of the tradition of the assembly, established by counterpart Atlagic, I will read the part to ask the question. I quote: "We spend three and a half billion euros each year on health care. I don't know where or how we can get a deadlock to see a billion of us go missing somewhere. I don't know where and how? The money's gone somewhere. “ The end of the quote. There's not a word about this billion in this new exposé. So we didn't find her, or that she was wanted. I wonder if we found that money, do we have the continuity to keep it on the annual level? Please, a billion euros is not small money, and we treat children with SMS. A billion euros is 30% of the budget we set aside for health care and that's about 3% of our GDP. I would like to thank the Prime Minister in advance for her reply. I commend her for promising to answer questions yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18455	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18456	I thank you, President. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished candidates for members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, respected MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, as our authorised representative has already pointed out, our comrade Djordje Milicevic, the SPS parliamentary group will give unreserved support to this composition of the government and the exposé of the prime minister, and thus give support, i.e. to vote in favour of this government's proposal. What is very important to point out, which comes from an exposé or programme presented by the prime minister to this tide, is the fact that the SPS unreservedly agrees, which is to continue Serbia's reform path towards the ultimate strategic goal, and our country's ultimate strategic goal is to join EU membership. We have started reform processes, and very successfully, and these reform processes are being monitored and valued by those who are responsible and who represent the components of the EU's organs and bodies. We are very pleased that this evaluation has yielded positive results. We are very pleased with the fact that a significant portion of the chapter has already been opened. We are also very pleased with the fact that other chapters will soon be open, which suggests in an unequivocal way that the previous government has been doing well. The continuity that must be kept implies two things. First, to intensify everything that has been done so far is extremely successful. Second, that through this more intense process, we are coming to a solution to those problems that we have not reached or managed to solve in a timely manner. The international position, the international reputation of the Republic of Serbia, is now, precisely because of the government's results, the previous government, now we can say, extremely good. This implies that the Republic of Serbia led an extremely good foreign policy and that there were those who were the most responsible and who carried on their backs the greatest burden of the obligation to make this foreign policy successful, right now the president of the state, Mr. Vukic and the foreign minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister Ivica Dacic. The continuation of integration processes is undoubtedly something this government will have as its obligation and on this path encounter new temptations, new challenges. One of these challenges is undoubtedly resolving the Kosovo and Metohija issues, the status of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as many other unresolved situations that relate to all segments and societies and states. There is not a single portfolio that has not contributed to these reform processes. So there is no ministry that has not been involved in the successful resolution of those tasks and obligations ahead of us to open the door wide to Serbia to join the EU, to start with health, education, justice, the police, not to list all other resolutions. But speaking of which, I'll only focus on two resistors that bond on one side to my profession, and on the other hand for something that's extra-professional activity, which is sport. When it comes to justice, no matter what the burdens remain, because they're inherited, because we're pulling them out for decades, there's been a shift that needs to earn attention. That is why, without any service, the minister and candidate for justice, which will certainly be, Nelli Kuburovic SPS is giving support in further efforts to continue the reform of the judiciary and that all problems burdening the judiciary are solved as soon as possible. It is indisputable that 900,000 cases are reduced, that so many justice courts are relieved, or courts. We need to be honest, the greatest, so to speak, the reason that this discharge is done is to just pass the law on enforcement and security and the fact that public executioners took over that obligation that the courts couldn't carry out successfully. I am sure that the Minister in this field, together with the judicial institutions, will contribute to the resolution of other cases as quickly as possible, through mediation, or mediation, and thus to relieve the courts and solve problems that no one has managed to solve in an adequate manner. When it comes to sports, we heard two great news today. One is that we have a new world champion in Tekvondo. Mr. Widowic, the great merits of the Ministry of Sports really need to be evaluated, it needs what we heard today to further affirm. What I want to tell you is one fact that no one can question, which is that more and more small sports represent Serbian representatives in the world, that they are now our ambassadors. Besides water polo players, besides basketball players, basketball players, volleyball players, they are now contestants in Tekvondo, there is our carist Borkovic, there are my karatists, Jelena Prekovic, who was Europe's champion in karate, as well as many others who represent not only that elite that binds to collective sports. Small sports need to be given more attention, because there is now both quality and capacity, and I am sure that Serbia will have great reach through them and be successfully represented worldwide. The future government of the Republic of Serbia wants a success in its work, wants to put Serbia in good health in the best way possible and to introduce it into the EU as soon as possible. In that sense, once again, the support of the SPS parliamentary group is not in any way doubtful and unquestionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18457	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18458	I would point out the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. 118th and 255th. During the break, I made an insight into the stenographic notes, article 118 of the 3rd and 4th century, which regulates the keeping of stenographic notes, and I saw that there were four minutes missing in the stenograms from my speech, and when you told me it wasn't heard because I was too tall, but then I guess it should be heard in the stenographic notes. My microphone didn't work, it's clear to everyone. Also, a member of 255 says that the work of the National Assembly is public, the work itself of the pleum and the working bodies. Given the footage of the National Assembly's transmission, there is no record of those four minutes of my speech. They also transferred funds to public information. I'd like to ask you a question, did I not say those four minutes at all because there's no tone trace, there's no trace in the stenograms, there's no trace in the media, or how are we going to solve this problem? It's really amazing that my microphone was on, but it didn't work and it didn't sound, even though it worked this morning. I'll remind you that I was an MP who was asking MP questions to the government. How could such a thing happen with a microphone, that's very interesting? So, I'd like to make sure it's fixed in some way.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18459	You're wrong. Here, I have a photo of what you were doing with the microphone during your speech. You kept hitting the microphone until you significantly damaged it. You can come by yourself and see what it looks like, and we'll keep doing it anyway. Everyone in the O.R. heard your speech, which I think is the most important thing. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18460	Thank you. Presidents of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the distinguished Mrs. Brnabic and the members of the government, above all, I think it is terribly important, and I have listened carefully to your exposés, that there is one institutional trust between Parliament and the Government that has not existed until today. Your statement that you will be the regular last Thursday of the month encourages us in that intention to establish institutional co-operation and that MPs, above all, of course, opposition, can ask you for explanations on the work of the government and the work of the ministries. In your exposé, you've put out your ideas and I think some of them are very good, but what I'm worried about is that you won't have the authority to carry them out. Digitalisation is certainly needed by Serbia, and I fully support you in this regard. I believe the brain drain is at the highest level in Serbian history. Sixty thousand people left our country last year, and 80,000 is an OECD estimate that they will leave Serbia for good this year. What worries me is that you are not really aware of the state you have found and how you want to digitize Serbia. I think this is a picture that best depicts today's situation in Serbia. This is a picture that speaks enough about the state of our hospital, our health care and the citizens of Serbia. You were saying that the health care stopped falling and that some things were better, but these pictures from the maternity ward deny you that. I'm also very interested in what you actually have to say if 200m euros were invested in "Belgrade on Water", and with twice as much money we could not only fix that space, which I agree should be arranged, but we could bring in one "Amazon", Google, or a world-class company that would make a boom in the IT industry and help both Novi Sad and Belgrade and Nis to make the IT sector live. There are average salaries of 800 and 900 euros, and that is exactly what is opposed to the society of slaves promoted by your predecessor in your place here are five years in a row. We can't invest in a mast of 220 million dinars and say that we're going to digitize Serbia because then your priorities don't match up with you or your tutor. But we can't insist that one meter of mast should cost a million and 800 thousand dinars and talk on the other side about modernizing our country. Today I hold in my hand a decision on the rebalancing of the city's budget and, believe it or not, 20 million dinars, so more than 150,000 euros costs the pensioner site in the city of Belgrade. The site costs 150,000 euros. I do not believe that this is the kind of digitisation that you proposed to citizens and MPs yesterday, and I do not believe that you believe that this is the digitisation of Serbia that needs to be implemented. What is also very insulting is that not a single word was about the rule of law, about media freedoms and human rights. I was wondering – do you agree or condemn SNS MPs who said that the private security of the SNS should be rewarded on the party authorities because they beat Lydia Valtner, the journalist's list "Today"? Do you agree with the SNS officer's decision as mandated? I also want to know at least one word about the rule of law. Is it important to crash in the dark, in the day or in the law, because the Savamala has been denied the affair of opinion by you? What is also important, I end up with, is the fight against corruption. You mentioned on several occasions that fighting corruption is what is a very high priority and an important priority of your government. How can a website of 150,000 euros be a site today in Serbia, which is hungry, thirsty, where citizens are humiliated, where their salaries and pensions have been cut, where soldiers break their contracts because they pay 30 and some thousand dinars? How can one meter of mast be given 1,800,000 dinars? Or are we Serbia where patriotism tries to mask corruption? I wouldn't want that to be the case with us. Not a word about foreign policy. I am very interested and interested – will your minister and your proposal, Mr Nenad Popovic, as minister in this government, succeed in animated, since we have a humanitarian disaster with a deposit in Vinca, will it succeed in animateing the Russian humanitarian centre from Nis, that this humanitarian disaster is being resolved, since I assume that the humanitarian centre is and exists in Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18461	The word has an Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18462	Thank you. A lot of questions have been asked. I think it is most important that I answer health issues anyway because they are one of Serbia's top priorities. As for the disappearance of a billion euros annually from the health budget, we absolutely cannot talk about the disappearance of any billion euros from the health budget because the Republic of Serbia is leaving 260 euros per capita annually. Real health care costs per capita are between 800 and 900 euros per year. So for so many countries, it compensates for the costs that should otherwise be covered by health insurance. So we can't talk about a billion euros. As for that photo and everything that's been said here about the health system, let's go through everything we went through yesterday. So, by 2012, Serbian health care did not meet the evaluation criteria under the European Health Consumer Index, i.e. the Euro Health Consumer Index, if anyone needs to check. When we met the criteria, we were the worst. Over the past two years, we have advanced 12 places in the European health consumer index, we are no longer the worst in Europe and are now taking a 24th position. The same index gave Serbia's health the state title with the biggest progress in 2016. I'm going to go back to my question that I've been asking all of us and myself today all day, and I'm going to ask it every day, and that's -- is it better, can it go faster? Well, he can, probably. But where we were, we did great today. Let me say some more things about the health system. One of the top priorities is the reconstruction and construction of four clinical centres in Serbia: Nis Clinical Centre – 32.5 million, Vojvodina Clinical Centre – 32.6m euros, all investments, Kragujevac Clinical Centre – 29.4m euros and the Serbian Clinical Centre – the projected value of works is 96m euros. That's a total of 200m euros. The reconstruction and construction of four clinical centres in Serbia, the implementation of the reconstruction and construction project, the equipment of seven renowned health institutions I talked about and in the exhibition will start this year: the University Children's Clinic "Tirsova", the Gynaecology and Accumulation clinic of the Clinical Centre of Serbia, i.e. Visegradska, KBC "Dragisa Misović", the Emergency Centre of the Clinical Centre of Serbia, the Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases "Dedinje", the Clinic for Neurosurgery of the Clinical Centre of Serbia and KBC "Zemun" – Department of Pediatry. So, reconstruction of the construction and equipment of these health centers. Four linear accelerators have already been released to which the Serbian government allocated 700m dinars in 2016. There are two apparatus for the Nis Clinical Centre, one apparatus for the Kragujevac Clinical Centre and one apparatus for the Oncology and Radiology Institute of Serbia in Belgrade. By the end of 2017, so by the end of this year, we end up getting six more World Bank loans. There is no longer a waiting list for radiation in Kragujevac. By the end of this government's term, we've said we're going to lift all waiting lists. On the gamma knife, about 800 interventions were performed with a gold standard in neurosurgery for the first year. More than 1,100 interventions have been made so far. We also buy a cyber knife, so Serbia will be the only country in the world whose citizens can have free interventions with new gold standards and gamma knives and cyber knives. The Serbian government has decided to approve financial resources for the creation of health facilities, adaptations and recovery of wet knots and water and sewerage networks of health institutions. The Health Institute Network Regulation 600 million dinars from the budget separately, which is more than 150 health institutions covered by this programme across Serbia. About health care, should we continue on health care, or is there no need? But there is a need for another important thing that has been mentioned here twice, as one reminder of the government of the Republic of Serbia that we should do something to stop children from being treated with text. At the end of 2014, the government established a budget fund for the treatment of diseases, conditions or injuries that cannot be successfully treated in Serbia, which is the end of 2014. 55 patients were treated abroad for two years, 118 requests for diagnostics at a foreign health care facility were approved. To treat abroad and provide adequate therapy for rare diseases via the budget fund for the last three years, the state has allocated more than 32m euros. By June 2017 63 children were sent for treatment, 134 samples sent for analysis abroad. On today, there are 251 million dinars on this fund. Today, the state is helping 10 times as many cases as it was three years ago. I've tried to find out how much has been released by 2012 for the treatment of rare diseases and it's fascinating data, I can't see it now, just to see, I know it's been pretty easy to remember that number - 0 dinars. Now, let me just answer this question in such a way that I'm not sure I should continue to answer the other questions when this is so twisted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18463	Thank you. The word is Biljana Pantić Pija.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18464	Madam Prime Minister, MPs, future members of the government, it would be funny if someone who's been in power for so many years shows pictures of the fallen hospitals that could have been repaired, but for example winters in the Maldives or opens "Kamenica 2" in the midst of a political campaign, give hope, false hope to cancer patients, and then when the "Kamenica 2" campaign passes, it's not ready for use, and then it's really heard from someone who comes to talk about the future government's programme with that kind of knowledge. As for the programme of the future government that you presented to us yesterday, it is clear that you will continue the path that President Aleksandar Vukic started, that you will continue with reforms that are in the interest of the Serbian citizens who have elected you. The previous government, not headed by Alexander Vukic, began the trend of bringing foreign investors and hiring domestic resources and you promised to continue this trend yesterday in your program that you read to us. However, some MPs mentioned Novi Sad, factories. I have to look back on this and the Novi Sad, which was devastated by the former regime by 2012 when their personal pockets were filled, the pockets of their parties, when they were destroyed, just to name the Bank of Development in bankruptcy, which is now in bankruptcy, when they were taking loans without security. Then in 2012, citizens of Novi Sad elected Milos Vukovic as mayor who proved to be a good host, so the government of Aleksandar Vukic recognized it. Well, Novi Sad has one Delphi Packard from Great Britain, which rented a hall of 25 thousand square meters, built another five thousand square meters. In which he currently works 1,700 people, he is scheduled to employ 1,300 more. The U.S. Lir factory that built a new factory of 30,000 square metres, where about 2,000 people were employed. The German "Continental" where 100 engineers are immediately employed and intends to employ another 400 engineers. "Knor" about 50 people, "Alex Fashon" about 100 people. But those colleagues who come from the New Sad obviously don't know or don't want to know, they don't care that they couldn't bring such investments into one of the New Sads, and you promised in your program that you would continue this trend. I just have to look around, the container guards are mentioned. For a colleague who mentioned it, she could mention that the town of Novi Sad suffered a monthly damage of millions of dinars, in the way these same underground containers, the theft of waste and the destruction of containers are damaged. But it wasn't important for her to mention it, because she doesn't care about the city of Novi Sad, and that's what she's saying about leaving her home party. For example, in Europe, waste is one of the serious items in the city's income, but it obviously doesn't matter to them because Europe is obviously not the way they prefer to go. Also, you stated that there will be new changes to labour law, amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, so I have to look back on that, and that is very important for the continuation of the fight against crime and corruption, especially given how we had judicial reform and how we were destroyed by the judiciary. I believe that former Minister Selakovic and Mrs Kuburovic did a great job, that they continued to fight to have a faster and more efficient judiciary, that more than 60,000 square metres of new rooms were built or renovated. We hope soon in Novi Sad a new building for the palace of justice. New professions have been introduced, new laws that have raised the judiciary, and you have stated that the Code of Criminal Procedure will also be amended where public prosecutors will be given greater authority in the investigation, which I think is good, because this also reduces the rate of criminality committed. Also, yesterday you said one great sentence, every member of society to do their part to make this society better. We heard, many of them from the former regime and opposition parties who can't do any better by their actions, and that was recognized by Serbian citizens in previous elections. I will give you my vote because I know that you continue where Alexander Vukic is and that you continue to fight for better Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18465	The word is "Verica Radet."
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18466	Ladies and gentlemen, from the day before 15 days ago when it was, when Aleksandar Vukic, past his party's will, revealed that the mandate for the government's composition was going to be Ana Brnabic, I would say, her problems, insults, demeaning, were starting to move. And from who? Right from the officials and MPs of the advanced party. Wherever they appeared, they said, as they appeared, I don't mind Anna Brnabic being gay, I don't mind Anna Brnabic having a Croatian background, I don't mind Anna Brnabic being in NAED which is otherwise against Serbia's interest. I don't mind that Anna Brnabic was in USAID, which is otherwise funded by Soros. So, I'm just quoting what I've been listening to from those who will still support Anna Brnabić as they said today and it was such a fascinating statement directly in one show, fellow MPs, I don't speak names on purpose, because I don't want to cause any arguments or replicas, but I'm purely expressing what I think is important. This colleague says - what everyone came after Anna Brnabić, here, and I had some prejudice, but I talked to her, people, she's normal. People, I was disgusted when I heard it, believe it or not. So it continues today. And today, Mrs. Brnabic, those who say they'll vote for her actually belittled. We didn't hear anyone say he was going to vote for Anna Brnabic for her, for some of her qualities. Everyone will vote for her because she is Alexander Vukic's choice. Even if so, it would be correct for Mrs. Ana Brnabic to say that she will vote for her and for some of her qualities. Then they remembered at some point, and they began to say that Ana Brnabic showed exceptional results at the post of state administration minister and local self-government during this previous period. And, of course, no one said what concrete results these were. Now I'm asking, or I notice that, in fact, there were no results there. There's been a cancellation. I don't think it's something someone should brag about. There's no such thing as electronics. You don't have a chance to take a birth certificate from a book for someone who was born in Belgrade to take it to Nis, I don't know, somewhere else. Belgrade is networked, Novi Sadi is networked and a few more, a dozen municipalities at the top of its head. That's a fact. Health books, the fact is that since December of last year, here's a full seven months, these electronic health books haven't arrived yet. In local self-government, by the way, you didn't do the key thing. Your local self-government is booming from corruption. They have arrived, i.e. they have been referred to you, Mrs Brnabic, and Mrs Mihajlovic. I can't say they've reached you. Maybe they've been intercepted somewhere. But, let's just say, I know for sure that both ministries have been given a letter informing you that in one municipality, I can't speak for the people who gave this information, I can't talk about who it is, because they're going to suffer serious problems in these municipalities, that in one municipality, it's a Belgrade municipality, if someone wants to build a building with multiple apartments, they have to give 70,000 euros, they know exactly who. Of course, people give up. Twenty thousand euros were asked for by a man who was in production, i.e. he gave, excuse me, 20,000 euros. He needs to hire 120 people to legalize some small trafo station. That someone told him -- you know, I'm sorry, you have to give another 20,000, the case came to my colleague, believe it or not. I don't know if it got to you. I believe both would react if it were possible, but just so you know it's happening. Our biggest remark to you, Mrs. Brnabic, in this ministry where you worked is that we waited for elections without a single voter list. Indeed, it is an obligation that you must resolve most urgently if you want to do your job seriously. You're telling us about digitization here. It's all nice, we don't mind progressing in every way, but you don't know your country. You're talking about digitisation in a country where cities don't have sewers, where there are villages that don't even have electricity, where there's no telecommunications, where you don't have cell phones on at least one third of the state. Try sending a telegram. Last Thursday I sent a telegram to a village near Babusnica. The clerk told me that the telegram will arrive at the address Tuesday morning, sent to the office on Thursday morning, will arrive on Tuesday. And you're talking about digitization. In the state of Serbia, the priority is to address the economic crisis and social misery. If you can do that, then we can expect you to do something.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18467	The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18468	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Brnabic, we will give you support, do not doubt it, and the most important reason is that you have results in your work. Some can challenge them, some can see them. Those who don't see them at all can't help them, believe me. If we're going to make exceptions, then this country has no future. I have to tell you that you have to do your best to get these programming goals that you put out in your exposé and achieve, and I'll tell you why. Because during this entire discussion, someone has been accused, and I will say exactly who is being accused, the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, of being involved in the manipulation of data. So fellow MPs from the former regime kept providing some data. Here, I'll just get some information out, but I'd like to start with this. For example, one of my esteemed colleagues says that the foreign reserves of the Republic of Serbia are lower by a billion today, but he did not say what. If you look, they're less than a billion dollars, but I'd also be right if I said they're bigger by a billion euros, due to the exchange rate between 2008 and today's dollar-to-euro relationship. Isn't that the manipulation of facts? Or, say, another piece of information that's very important. Here, MPs of the former regime leaped out of joy and out of happiness by manipulating one fact, which is that the National Bank in the final financial account for 2013. When you look at the financial report, it seems that it is true, but none of these data handlers said that the financial report has been reduced due to the drop in the price of the euro and other foreign reserve foreign currency, and that the National Bank has negative business means that there is more money in the economy and among citizens. But it doesn't suit them. They still say – we don't know it, we don't understand it. When they talk about public debt, they also provide information that can be called manipulation. Here, a fellow MP said in 31.12.2013, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia was 15 billion and 116m euros, and today it is 24 billion and 820m euros, respectively. Both data are true, but he was showing grandparents and frogs, and it's not out of ignorance, but out of malice and depravity, because direct obligations were 15 billion and 100 million. However, indirect ones have increased this by another two billion and 600 million, totaling 17 billion and 700 million, so the public debt has jumped by slightly less than seven billion euros for five years, and that is the exact data. Slowly, we'll get to the bottom of the public debt. Wait a minute, are you impatient? It's the hand and the work of the former regime. We'll talk about it now. You know, here in the congregation, we avoid saying things, or we don't give qualifications to someone who doesn't tell the truth, to call him a real name, but to tell him from his education - don't tell him the truth. We're not gonna say that ugly word. No one will say that in 2013, 90 billion dinars were paid out of the Republic of Serbia's budget for loans with which the SNS and the government had no responsibility. It's the loans the former regime has taken. When you charge yourself to pay the principal of the loan, to pay the interest of the loan, that amount you're in debt is credited to your principal. Due to the payment of interest from 2013 in 2014 we have an increase in interest payments and it is already at 113 billion dinars or 900m euros. Once again, only interest was paid, and credit was raised to pay the interest because we had no economy that could withstand that task, and we inherited the economy from the former regime. In 2015, accurate data, interest rates amounted to 131 billion dinars or billions and 50m euros. It's again paid by the state's debt for the loans you've raised and the interest we have to pay, and you've made them. In 2016 it was paid on the basis of loans that you raised interest of 139 billion dinars, i.e. a billion and 100 million euros. Why don't you say so? It's your handiwork. Are any of you ashamed? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This totaled 4 billion and 200m euros in new government commitments. When you ask where the public debt comes from, all the data is available, public,... Let me tell you, you like to say that mathematics is an exact science, and I use Serbian words, precise, so there's no mistake. Let's move on. A billion euros, someone with two banks was playing -- Vojvodina Development Bank and Agrobank. It was also paid from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Let's move on. Four hundred million euros in debt to subsidise agriculture from 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012. You want to move on? Military pensions that haven't been harmonised since 2008 due to the threat of loss before the court. Why don't you make a noise? The truth hurts you, so what do I do to you? Two hundred million euros. There is also Minister Vujovic who will confirm everything. I haven't come to the end yet. You have in the structure of our public debt six billion dollars that we inherited per course of 1.34 over the dollar -- the euro, and today it's 1.05, so we have your six billion dollar exchange rate in the budget that affects the public debt of a billion and 620 million euros. All this data I've provided is accurate, it's available to everyone. I am surprised that some fellow MPs who participated and supported me can look me in the eye, which means they are without scruples, and who is without scruples is without honor, who is without honor cannot lead Serbia. So you must do your best to make your programming goals, Mrs. Brnabic, succeed. Imagine those who don't tell the truth here what they're going to do when they come to power. Serbia no longer deserves them in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18469	The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. You have 46 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18470	Mrs. Brnabic, can't go faster, better, stronger if we have a prime minister who needs a mentor, if we have a government of continuity of controversial quality, if the government has passed a set of laws directly harmful to the citizens of Serbia, if the government declares a personal interest in the public interest for the implementation of the "Belgrade on Water" project. Perhaps the Ministry of Environment will have something to do. I ask: Who will be the owner of the environment that this ministry will deal with when you have sold everything that could be sold? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18471	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18472	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office of the Assembly, Mr Brnabic, candidates for ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia next to Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. In the Serbian Parliament, I represent the United Peasant Party, and I was elected from the SNS list -- Aleksandar Vukic. I will, as a prime minister, support you unconditionally. Just because I know you're a good person, that you're a good man. Just because I know you're an expert and because I know you're coming, that your blood is part Babusnica. It is a municipality located in southeastern Serbia. That is why I want to support you, to support your government because I know that we will continue to work with the same goal, which is to develop southeast Serbia, to invest in agriculture, to invest in the village, to invest in young people, to invest in cooperatives, to invest in science, to invest in health care. I know that's how it's gonna be. I know something else that my Serbian colleagues and citizens need to know, which is that when someone calls you, you always respond and know when to do something, as Minister of Local Self-Government, you've always given guidance to us in Srlig and municipalities, such as Babusnica, Gajin Han, like the southeast of Serbia. I don't think we should be ashamed of what we have. It is our strength in people, the strength in the first man of our Serbia, and that is Mr. Vukic, the president, whom we have given support, who has also proposed you. That is why I will vote with all my heart for you because I know that this future government of yours will continue to work on the development of southeast Serbia. I'm sure we'll continue to invest in the airport, continue to build all the roads in southeastern Serbia and, once again, I'll vote for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18473	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Goran Pekarski.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18474	Dear Presidents, honourable MPs, respected former and future ministers, respected prime minister, New Serbia and New Serbia's MP club and the Serbian Movement for Rescue in the voting day will not support this government, as New Serbia has given up the course of support for the previous government, and since this government is in continuance and desire to continue the continuity of the previous government, it is logical that we will not support such a government. We listened here today and yesterday in the presentation of various discussions, from praises to heavy criticism, from good words and sincere support of some people who really believe it, to cynicism, we will not enter those details. We simply believe that this government is not your government, that you did not choose these ministers, that this rock you made between ministers did not make, that the ministry without portfolios in charge of innovation is not your idea. We don't think it's your fault and that's why we won't support this government. Of course, not supporting this government does not mean that we will not follow her work and that we will not commend her and criticize her. Also, as we have followed so far the work of the former government and the former government, so we will follow in the future. We'll commend everything that's good. We'll also commend the gamma knife, we'll also commend the cyber knife, we'll also praise the new start of five scanners, we'll also commend oncolology two, we'll also commend the new part for radiotherapy. Also, on the other hand, we'll draw attention to some other government structures, spend some resources that might have been better off if they had gone, or for health care, or for youth, or for culture, or for I don't know what else. Perhaps your next problem is that in some future period, when you make some budget rebalances or a proposal for next year's budget, that budget framework for local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18475	Thank you. You've used your time. The word has a People's MP, Aleksandra Djurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18476	Dear Presidents, distinguished Mrs Brnabic, co-workers and fellow MPs, candidates for ministers, at the very beginning I would like to express my satisfaction that we will have a prime minister's wife for the first time in Serbia's history. Although this is not what Mrs Brnabic recommended for this position, I think it is a very important encouragement for all women in Serbia, not only those who are involved in politics, but also for all other women to be able to come to the highest position thanks to their knowledge and education. As for Mrs Brnabic, she has already shown her expertise, ability, responsibility in her work so far. Also, what I think is a very important feature for anyone who claims to be at the top of any organization, especially if it is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is a team player, which is exactly the quality that adorns you, so I am sure that you will succeed in leading the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The tasks ahead of the government, which will soon be voted, are to continue on that path, those identified by the previous government, which won support in last year's elections, with parliamentary elections. As far as the internal plan is concerned, it is a continuation of economic reforms, and I would especially like to commend that you have singled out education and digitisation as one priority on the internal plan. I think that's very important for modernizing our society. Since the government led by Mr. Alexander Vukic had very brave moves that led to good results, I think that the continuation of work, in that sense, will be no easy task for you. What is also important to say is that our citizens, after these reforms, who have been implemented, expect certain types of concrete benefits to be felt, which is in terms of raising pensions, increasing wages in the public sector, and that is what is expected of this government. What I would like to put as a focus of my presentation, it is an external policy, it is something I do in the National Assembly, it is very important that you emphasized continuity in the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, membership in the EU, as a strategic priority, but certainly maintaining and maintaining the best relations and co-operation, both with the Russian Federation and with China and strengthening bilateral co-operation with other important actors on the international stage. Certainly, the government in the foreign policy sector is something the previous government has to praise. Since December 2014, when the China-Earth Summit of Central Eastern Europe was organised, when after many years we had the opportunity to host the Prime Minister of China, and an extremely important project "One Belt-One Time", extremely important for all of Europe, I would say, which has put Serbia in the centre is very important and something that I am sure the entire region envys. Also, Serbia's OSCE presidency, which happened for the first time in this organisation that Serbia chaired the OSCE in 2015 in a very successful way, was something that promoted and improved our country's image and the fact that, eventually, in December, 44 delegations at the ministerial level came to Belgrade, was certainly a major contribution to our country's promotion. What is important to point out is great progress, and all that we have achieved about preventing membership so-called. Kosovo to international organisations, I would especially point out UNESCO. Also, in the UN Security Council, we prevented the adoption of a resolution that, thanks to the veto given by the Russian Federation, was prevented from being adopted, concerning events that took place in Srebrenica. I think it's something that we, as a state, are bound to, that kind of support we got from the Russian Federation, never forget that. That Serbia was able to improve its international reputation showed the inauguration of President Vukic, when more than 50 foreign delegations came to attend. All regional leaders, despite some disagreements that existed in the region, have come to support our president at a high level, show one respect, not only for him, but also for Serbia. The strategic goal, membership in the European Union, is something that remains our priority. I think it is a good thing that everything under the roof of the new European Integration Ministry will now be united with competences, both the European Integration Offices and the responsibilities of the Ministry without portfolios in charge of European integration and the negotiating team. It's very good, because they can coordinate activities in a better way. We all know that the European Union is facing a major crisis, and that the enlargement process is not something that is a priority. What is worrying and what is one of the, I would say, tasks for the future ministry are to improve the image and support of the EU's accession process itself. What we could see through research is that the lowest support among young people, among students, is something that needs to be changed. I think the EU itself can contribute greatly to the change in rhetoric and stronger support for Serbia, which was often missing. I think the low level of support that exists, in certain circles, is that it is precisely a respect for Serbia's territorial integrity, that what is missing for the EU to be recognised here, not only as an external trade partner, donor or investor, but to be recognised as a political organisation that respects and respects Serbia. What is often recognised among our citizens is that this whole process is quite politicised and that, often, the enlargement process depends not only on the concrete criteria that should apply to each country, but very often, the political circumstances in which enlargement is taking place. That is why I think it is also important for the EU to provide clearer support to Serbia, in order to help us all here to have more support among citizens. What is important for Serbia is regional integration, the integration agenda within the Berlin process is something that should continue this government of the Republic of Serbia. The next opportunity is also the meeting in Trieste, when some concrete projects of integration are expected. I think some other examples, which show that some better regional economic integration can also lead to a faster resolution of open bilateral issues. Finally, I would like to say, as president of the Friendship Group with the Russian Federation in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is the only group of friendships that has, I would say, the parliamentary majority, 129 members in that group of MPs, which demonstrates the mood in our Parliament, that it is very important to continue in the direction in which the previous government worked, which is to improve co-operation with Russia, not introduce sanctions to the Russian Federation and engage in better economic integration and increase trade with the Russian Federation. I hope that the newly formed National Council will also support the government in this process. I want to say that I wish you good luck in your future work. Sure, I'll support, with pleasure, your choice and the team you suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18477	Vladimir Djuric is not here. The word is by MP Meso Omerovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18478	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SDPS supports the programme of the future government of the Republic of Serbia, which was presented in its exhibition by Miss Ana Brnabic, the prime minister. The economic part of the programme was discussed by my distinguished colleagues from the parliamentary group, Professor. Mijatović and Prof. Marinkovic. So I'll only stay at that part in the remaining time that belongs to a six-and-a-half-minute parliamentary group that comes out of the SDP programme and that's very important to us, and it has to do with the government programme and the exposé we've heard. It is about continuing the path to the EU, co-operation with countries in the region, human and minority rights, social justice and social protection and dialogue. As for the continuation of the EU's SDPS path, he has no alternative and not because of the EU, but because of ourselves. Co-operation with countries in the region, close co-operation with countries in the region, according to the title of Ana Brnabic's exposé, and certainly with neighbours will be one of the government's top priorities in the coming years. Co-operation with neighbouring countries, former SFRY countries is very important to us. Why? Because, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, we are witnesses that today, 22 years after the war, in the former Yugoslavia, words of hate are spoken, and even a rattle of arms. All the countries in the area have a difficult task and work to teach young people so that crimes do not happen again. We can't face the past in these places. No one's gonna drop the ball. They say such hate words that it's just amazing how nobody remembers what we've been through, what tragedies, crimes, wars and accidents. We have often said that national minorities represent bridges that bring us together, and today we are witnesses, unfortunately, that they are an obstacle and a tool in the hands of irresponsible people, that is, some kind of subjugation coin. For the past year, every day literally someone from the former Yugoslavia speaks language and the past raises tensions, even recently mentioned weapons. It has already become a habit that in the days of marking some events from the past of Srebrenica, Storm, Jasenovac pours oil on fire. At that time, on-call patriots must use the opportunity to show all hatred for others. The end of history, the extenuation of the rehabilitation of the constitution and Chetism, the raising of records and monuments to the testified criminals became unfortunately our daily life. Wars are even called in these days, and when we look at some front pages of some newspapers, it might be an impression that mobilization is still in progress. As for the work that is extremely important to us about the commitment of human and minority rights, sensitive groups and social inclusion, the Social Democratic Party is convinced that it will be able to contribute first and foremost to the negotiating chapters 23 and 24, which concern the most important chapters. I won't mind those who take care of Chapter 35 the most. Namely, judicial reform, fundamental rights, freedom and security rights are the last-closed chapters, and it is important for us in this respect to amend the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, above all, to carry out full compliance with EU law, and in particular as regards the extent of the exceptions to the principle of simple treatment of the definition of indirect discrimination, etc. It is also necessary to amend the Law on National Minorities' Councils. It is also necessary to bring our legislation in line with the provisions of the Istanbul Convention, the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and control of violence against women and domestic violence, particularly through the introduction of safe houses, national free SOS channels. We also need to pass a law on free legal aid. We need to amend and supplement the Criminal Code, or criminal act relating to an infringement of equality in such a way that this act can be carried out if, because of sexual orientation or birth identity, a person's limited ability or withholds the rights or rights of citizens. We mentioned more than once, and we heard in the exposé, there is a word in the program – dialogue, concept – dialogue. In addition to the most important dialogue, dialogue with Pristina that stems from the Brussels Agreement, dialogue that is of paramount national and national importance, dialogue and co-operation with representatives of national minorities, dialogue, social dialogue and co-operation with our programme, or natural allies – trade unions are important for us in the SDPS. However, the dialogue and co-operation of the state, church and religious communities in the Government of Serbia programme, the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia, I think, will be a problem. Why? Because yesterday we heard from the bishop Atanasia a shameful message, a shameful message sent to Alexander Vukic because he entrusted the mandate, I quote - "Nerothite and anti-rombotic women who are anti-Serb children". It is a disgrace that offends not only the prime minister, Ana Brnabic. It's a shame that insults all citizens, all women who can't have children.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18479	Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18480	I'm finishing the presidents. On the other hand, opposition to the future government by one former Islamic community dignitary is also an obstacle to this dialogue because the man still plays a crucial role in the Islamic community. Rest assured, Miss Brnabic, that in the MPs of the SDPS and the party in general, you will have an honest and responsible ally on this difficult road.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18481	Thank you. Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18482	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable citizens of Serbia, the SNS formed the government in 2012, so the SNS reconstructed the government in 2013, so the SNS formed the government in 2014, and the SNS also formed the government in 2016, and unfortunately for the citizens of Serbia today, SNS forms another government. It's a long time when you talk, let alone when you live in the reality of SNS. While your SNS is getting better and better, while your tycoons are getting richer and richer, as well as the officials, Serbian citizens are getting harder and harder to live and barely make ends meet. Within six years, the SNS authorities have charged the country with 10 billion euros. Within six years, the SNS authorities cut down on citizens' salaries. You've cut the people's pensions. You've raised the price of electricity, you've introduced excises and you've raised the price of all charges. Meanwhile, SNS officials are buying magnificent villas worth 400,000 euros. Is that what you SNS are fighting for? You promised all of us, Serbian citizens, a four-billion-euro chip factory, and unfortunately, we got that at the Gosa factory in Smederjevska Palanca, citizens raise their hands because they haven't received their salaries in three years because they don't have certified health books. Just 70 kilometers from here, workers block the railroad every day, and there's not one in the media. You promised us Mercedes, and you shut down FAP after more than 60 years. Is that the policy of the fifth SNS government? Can we get a report in the media and be mentioned in one word - what is happening to the raspberries Mr. Stefanovic, who was brutally beaten by police in Požega? A few days ago, police blocked the way for raspberries who today have a 50% lower price of raspberries than last year, and during the DS, subsidies to farmers were 14,000 dinars, and now you from the SNS subsidy farmers have reduced to three thousand dinars. Is that the SNS authority you're talking about? I'm not really interested, and it's not appropriate whether someone served the army or not to be a defence minister. It has nothing to do with compatibility. Does anyone who sent water cannon students deserve to be Secretary of Defense? Can we get here, Madam Prime Minister, a notice on the circumstances under which Minister Vulin has avoided military service, while today as Minister of Social Protection, he makes war-to-human and incendiary statements? Are you worried about that? The Serbian Progressive Party ruined the Ministry of Defence in five and a half years, with 80 members of the Republika Srpska Army earning less than the average profit in Serbia, 72% of those who left Serbia's Army did so on a personal request. One such institution that, after church, has the highest trust of our citizens. And in the end, I'm sorry I don't have more time, I'm sorry to have to say this, but none of you except the SPS has any legitimacy to sit where they sit. None of you won the House Council election either. Which one of you ran for president, prime minister or minister's election and which list were you on? Not on any of them. This government has no legitimacy, and it will be the biggest problem, because no one in the government, except for the Socialist Party, who went to the polls on its own, has political legitimacy and will be managed by the one who has run the whole country for six years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18483	The word is made by Parliamentarian Igor Becic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18484	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, we have here where the thesis is completely replaced, so we have Mr. Jankovic who accused Anna Brnabic of the debts made by the former regime. Yeah, you heard right. The failed DOS candidate Sasa Jankovic accused Serbian Prime Minister Ana Brnabic of being the main culprit for debts made by local self-government in Serbia, so criticism of the Free Citizens Movement, Sasa Jankovic, is on the state of finance in local self-government, in fact talking about themselves and their DOS family. It's just that it's left unclear who he specifically meant because the list is long. This request also means responsibility for him, because he did not protect the citizens from the former regimes that robbed the people and the local self-governments they ran, but also because he violated the laws and the Constitution, dealing with his political promotion, and at the same time the citizens paid him over 3,000 euros a month, as the Citizens' Protector. He may have thought of his coalition partner, the previous speaker, who paid for the Smederjevska Palanka municipality, paying for it through a football club, as he spent more time in cafes than at work, while the companies were paying for citizens. The reminders work, the previous speaker in his favorite palace cafe made an account of 457,710 dinars and drank 340 bottles of beer. Speaking of bahato, Jankovic was probably referring to his management of Smederjevski Palanko, which he left with three billion debt and a blocked account of over 290 million dinars. It must also not be forgotten that Dragan Djilas, who has left Belgrade over-indebted to bankruptcy with a deficit of more than 20% and social debt, because it is known that in 2013, Gilas left a debt in Belgrade of 1.15 billion euros, of which 500 million dinars are due to pregnant women, maternity and socially endangered citizens and four billion dinars of debt to municipal enterprises on behalf of approved subsidies for municipal services. During his presentation, Jankovic could have thought of Pajtic, noting that he was recklessly abducting everyone and even of children with developmental disorders. He placed 156 million dinars in his own pocket and his party's pocket instead of reconstructing the "Hetherland" castle that was intended for children with developmental disorders. So Jankovic is very easy and fast about how the debts of local self-government were created can be notified in his movement and among his coalition partners, who are real experts in kidnapping from Serbian citizens. Dear President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today when the choice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is on the agenda, I can say that I am unreservedly in favour of the decision of the president of Serbia, to propose to Mrs Anna Brnabic, as prime minister for the composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that this is a state move and a decision made in Serbia's interest. Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic has shown that he is making political and economic decisions in the best interests of Serbian citizens. That is why he has received huge support in all the elections held over the past five years. That is why it has my support and support for the SNS parliamentary group and for the vast majority of the MPs, and most importantly, I am sure and a vast majority of Serbian citizens. We have a proposal from the prime minister, Ms. Ana Brnabic, that her cabinet should look like, and I am sure that this is a good decision that guarantees us the continuity of the previous government, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, and that all the goals that have been outlined in his exposé, which has already given us results for the past year, will continue to be built on the foundations set in the good interest of the Serbian citizens and will result in a continuation of improving the quality of life of our citizens. All criticisms raised by the opposition were in the direction of saying something in the absence of the possibility of recognising the results of the previous government in all segments of our society. Excellent economic economic indicators, a highly elevated international reputation for Serbia and the fact that thanks to President Vukic, Serbia is to recognise the leader of the region. Respecting the weather, as well as the chairman of the Security Service Control Committee, I will also mention some of the results of the interior and defence portfolios. Before that, I would also say that we have the president's argument here and I quote -- I think Mrs. Ana Brnabic has professional and personal qualities to perform the post of Prime Minister, and she assured me she can secure the government's choice. The goal is for the new Serbian Prime Minister to continue to do great and important things for our country, implement reforms from the real and public sector, which will ensure that the overall business investment environment improves, speed up Serbia's path to European standards, and all in order to improve the future of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We also have her biography where Mrs. Ana Brnabic owns a master's degree in Hal University of Great Britain and over ten years of working in international organisations, foreign curators, local self-government and public sector in Serbia. In August 2016, it was appointed Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we have already seen results in the sector. Also mentioned here by the previous speaker that there have been some clashes between police and raspberries, which is a great lie, because we are used to these 20 days from one newspaper, by "Kurir" very large lies in the direction of the Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic. We have that news "Kurir" released in 2011, which speaks of some alleged clashes between the Malian and police, and we know since the SNS began to run the internal affairs portfolio. We have in that vault an improvement in the personal and property security of citizens. The results of the work against organised crime have been improved, 10.16 tonnes of different drug types have been seized, more than 160 laboratories have been discovered, 4100 pieces of different firearms have been seized, a total of 531,184 cigarettes have been seized, which is more than three times the result compared to the previous period, as well as 281 tonnes of cut tobacco. So we have a lot of results, but due to time, I can't mention everything. It has been pointed out that Serbian police are among the top ten most desirable partners in 190 police in the world, the Interpol Secretary General's Commission. We also have an improvement in traffic security, large results have been achieved in the areas of administrative affairs, emergency situations in the internal control sector, etc. I would only mention in one sentence because I think it is very important for the Ministry of Defense, that we have the security of the citizens as the most important mission. Border control is also being carried out by the military, a fully secured administrative line towards the AP KiM, a total length of 402km. The troops of the military and the MUP have been educated to secure the state border towards Macedonia, Bulgaria and the Republic of Montenegro, the result of joint action and the formation of joint forces to date; more than 21,000 people who have given up the illegal crossing of the state border; it has also been processed, 134 smugglers; we have the help of the population following major elemental disasters throughout Serbia, increasing the military's operational capabilities through an increase in the number of military exercises; military material reserves have been restored, system extraction, development, Serbia's Army's equipment with new weapons, and many things the previous government can stand before Serbian citizens. I am also absolutely sure that the new government, headed by Mrs. Ana Brnabic, can continue where this government has left off. I thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18485	Thank you. Right on the line, George Komlensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18486	Thank you, Chairman. Since I was forced to answer the questions of a man who, along with his party president, who was then the defence minister, damaged the Serbian Army and Smederjevska Palanka municipality for 14 million dinars, by paying 40 million dinars to the Smederjevska Palanca Army home, and then selling it to Delese for 26 million. I want to answer those who are asking why a minister can be someone who has not served the army, and as a shadow minister, they have asked Mrs. Comic, who cannot possibly serve the army, although I do not doubt her ability to do the job. But to break that name once, Alexander Vulin did not serve the army and had no honor and opportunity because of an innate flaw that was about vision. For his eyesight, he was not allowed to serve the army, but I am sure that either a single or a unique specimen of a man who complained of such a decision twice asked for a special military commission to be convened at VMA, with a request to be granted military service. Unfortunately, it wasn't done. As for the tanks and the students, it seems that the amount of beer has done its part, so the gentleman who asked that was confused by the Chinese army minister, named Wu Lin, who did send the tanks there to the Tenanmen, but what do we do to him next time he sobers up, he might even know to ask a real question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18487	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18488	Mr. Chairman, you have violated the article. 108th and 107th. I would like you to explain, not to me, all the MPs here, and also to the citizens of Serbia, on the basis of which you gave the previous speaker a word, except by the criteria of who prefers Vulin, so those of his group of MPs came forward. There are legitimate representatives of the people here, it's us who went to the elections, on their lists, with their names and last names, who won 6, 8, 15 or 50% of the votes, and that's not the problem, but there are also those who couldn't vote in their own house or women wouldn't vote for him, and that's exactly the Socialist movement.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18489	Thank you. On the basis of Article 104, since Mr. Vulin was mentioned as party president – the Socialist Movement, so that Komlenski had the right to reply. Do you want the Parliament's vote to be declared in the day of the vote? (No) The word has Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18490	Now I really have to say that there are some things we can't get over and that it's not right, and I guess someone should apologize if they tell a disgusting lie that someone beat the rabbles in Požega. That's terrible. The scandal is to say such things, which are completely false. Since the Home Secretary can't explain this to you right now, I can tell you, and I'm asking you, here, if we can get an apology for accusing the entire police of beating the raspberries when people didn't do anything. For the last three years, the MUP has not had any incidents with the citizens. So please don't say such things. You're accusing our police of going and beating our citizens, and that's absolutely not true. As Minister of State and Local Self-Government, I want to apologize to the citizens of Smederevska Palanka for failing to do anything for Smederevska Palanka. Here, hand to heart, I really couldn't do anything for them. I was there, talking to people, trying, going left, right, to get her out of the blizzard that MP Milojicic left her in. So, three billion dinars, three budgets, and I know I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, but I just can't react to some things without reacting. Three budgets, 19 public utility companies opened in Smederjevska Palanca, all institutions are in a blockade, so people, aman, some things really cannot be allowed in this Serbia. We haven't been able to do anything. On the other hand, we managed to do something for the water supply. And here to answer now -- digitization, water supply, sewerage and all that. So these two processes don't rule out each other. We can and make them parallel. We can't say – okay, because there's no water supply and sewerage everywhere. Let's just deal with it, so let's get by the train, let's not do anything about digitization. So we're doing everything together. We have projects for water supply in Aleksinac, Piroth, Kickindi, Sombor, Užica, finished in Smedereva, Vrbas, Parachin and Književec. But what you're going to be shocked, I believe, is that the interest on the funds that we've agreed with the German KWF, we have a grace period of five years, the interest is 1.1%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18491	Thank you. Right on line, colleague Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18492	Thank you. Mention, comparison, disqualification and qualification of whether a woman can be a defence minister, for my request, that you all go rogue together here in the O.R., out there, in the churches, in the media, wherever you want, to have your wives as a small change for discussions for which you have no knowledge or strength. Get out of it. How can I tell you, I think it's time you really lost it. Whether I or not will be able to be defence minister will depend on whether or not the DS will be able to restore all its reputation to the voters, re-shape the government and would I ever accept an invitation to be in the executive power. It's a matter of political attitude. It's a matter of political knowledge. You can ask me that and I will tell you – I am a Parliamentarian. I think this is where the most important things happen in the state and society. That's why I'm a minority, and that's why this House has little reputation. But with as much reputation as he has, I ask you most kindly, please, avoid your women's qualifications being petty change, it's not nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18493	Thank you. (Radoslav Milojic: Replica! There's a circle of replicas closed, let's move on. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go. (Radoslav Milojic: I am mentioned. ) I ask you to allow my colleague Mircic to address Parliament and citizens. (Radoslav Milojic: Rules of Procedure! Here you go, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18494	I don't understand this at all, Chairman, at the very heart of my speech, you're depriving someone's right to the Rules of Procedure. Then to make it look like you have an alibi, you're calling on me. I'll wait, but at least respect the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18495	No, I'm asking you to continue, I gave you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18496	Here, and I'm asking you something, if the Minister could be the future...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18497	I can go to another speaker if you don't want to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18498	Wait a minute, don't be nervous, you're begging me and I'm asking you something. If future Minister Zorana Mihajlovic could take this dress back. You know, it's provocative. I don't know what it looks like to you, but I'm a man of flesh and blood.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18499	I have to warn you about this. You have one warning, colleague Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18500	And you don't have those feelings?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18501	I hereby sentence Milorad Mircic for what he has said, a warning. So I do not allow in this House MPs from any political party to insult women who are involved in politics. So, that's enough, the border is here. Milorad Mircic: Let me finish. You haven't even started.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18502	I don't see why it's so nervous, but not to comment. I thank Zorana Mihajlovic for listening to my request, and you continue to react unarticulately, so as far as we can. What's very strange, which is from the exposé, is that instead of dealing with the life problems that Serbia is facing most of us, let's see, for example, how to solve this hunger, misery, poverty, unemployment, unemployment, we've been listening here to exposés that is completely emanating from reality. How's it coming off? By first or at the heart of the government's future interest, according to the prime minister, it will be digitisation, like once electrification when it was after the war, so this general movement of digitisation is very, very current. Here, we read in the newspaper today that former Foreign Minister Goran Svilanovic is also pushing for the digitisation of the region. Imagine what a coincidence that is. The future prime minister says it is a priority job, a priority of all priorities, to digitise Serbia. And when an ordinary citizen listens to it, he has the impression that it's very important, that it's important, that tomorrow, much richer to live, that digitization will make up a growing number of popular cuisines, that digitization will make more and more people work, and he doesn't think that digitization is mostly technical work. Imagine how ridiculous that is, in a country that has a total of seven million and 200,000 inhabitants, you put digitization as a priority of all priorities. This is done in more serious companies in less than a year. Secondly, if you thought this was the continuity of the former minister of local self-government, you're wrong. How do you forget the credits of Cory Widowsky? Kori Udovici, as a resolute minister, started this project, brought it to an end. What stopped it? It prevented the current prime minister's false testimony when it comes to the wind generator affair. It prevented Kori Udovicki from staying as minister and finishing the job. That's the point. Instead of listening to how the future Prime Minister, and the government itself, will fight growing crime, we are dealing with completely marginal, side-by-side matters here. Let's see what it is with that Cosmic, the greatest criminal, the criminal of all criminals. How come suddenly there's a man on the loose overnight, not a drug dealer anymore? How come Stanko Sobotić, called The Frog, went free overnight in a magical way? What do you think, gentlemen, that crime will be prevented by you little pickpockets, cheaters, low-level criminals, arresting them to prevent crime? No, crime is the most dangerous thing to do with power. You must first of all clear the government's ranks of those who are in crime or prone to crime. All those who have dealt with counterfeiting, all those who have engaged in fraud must face justice and bear certain coincidences. All you can remember is that a former defence minister in the German government resigned because, allegedly, he forged his doctoral work, his doctoral dissertation. The falsification consisted of the fact that he did not mention in footnote the authors he used in his work. For moral reasons, he resigned, and we have here, for years the public has been talking about how suspicious or less suspicious the doctoral work of individual ministers is, as well as how they gained their diploma. You can't expect them to fight crime. We from the SRS see symbolism in the day and on the date when this government is elected. Every time those from the west, especially the Americans, want to make mistakes for Serbia and the Serbian people, they choose Vidovdan. Don't lose sight of it. So Vidovdan was elected to kidnap the president, repeatedly elected, Slobodan Milosevic, and his followers, the leadership of his party, signed a shameful Brussels agreement. That chair, that's where you're going, just keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18503	Thank you. Will Vladimir Djuric speak or Tatjana Macura? Vladimir Djuric, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18504	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, respected prime minister, this government is the government of continuity. It wouldn't be bad to look back at a lot of previous governments. I'll remind the citizens when Ceausescu was shot down in 1989, TV cameras from Novi Sad were then broadcast footage from Romania and we were then seen in Romanian eyes as rich neighbors, like the west. Today, Romania's two-year weighted GDP growth average is 4.5%, with 1.8% in Serbia. It's the price of historical delusions that little anyone in this room can say is not responsible. When you talk about the results of the previous government, I will briefly just draw attention to what the Fiscal Council says about it. I'll draw attention to the fact that after five years, you can no longer appeal to previous regimes. I'll just say very briefly, yes, it is true that the general government deficit will be less than planned, that public debt will be less than planned. It is true that the increased payment of fiscal incomes has been increased, but I will also say that the Fiscal Council made a sharp turn of attention the other day that the state of finance in local self-government is threatening to completely submerged our public finances. He drew attention in his report three months ago that the profits from public enterprises were drained, that their reforms were completely missing, that structural reforms were completely missing, that the structure of public expenditure was still very unfavourable and that we are still very exposed to fiscal risks as a result. There are no citizens in Serbia who would not want your promises in the exposé to succeed. When you talk about digitalisation and the transparency of the government, I will ask you one question - why does the transparency of Serbia need through the Administrative Court and the Commissioner for Public Information to try to obtain a concession of documentation for "Nikola Tesla" airport? Please answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18505	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18506	I didn't want to talk about the health system, because I'm reacting pretty emotionally and I'm going through it myself, and I think I can give the grade very competently. However, after your word on the health system, I received one photograph from one of the citizens of Mladenvec, who sent me a photo saying at the door of the home of health that all those who bring children in because of high temperature take medicines with them, because the pediatric service has no anti-temperature drugs. Please, before you read all these great rewards for reforming the education system and before we build all these magnificent health centers several hundred million euros. Let's get high-temperature drugs for all the homes of health first. The knowledge and reform society of the education system is not the first priority in this Assembly and in your exposé. It was 2012 and 2013 and 2014 and 2016 and 2017. Five years of reforming the education system, it continues to squat in some corner of the 19th century. Since you are talking about reforming the education system and persistently repeating continuity with all governments, I want to ask you a few questions. Do you know how many school years ago five years ago, it started that the students had no textbooks, no chalk, no textbooks, five years back? My second question – if you are talking about the society of knowledge do you know what laws you are about to enter in a decade? There are laws on the basis of a system of education and education, on laws in the area of higher education. If you don't know, it's a special problem. If you know, I don't know how it's possible to talk about the knowledge society, because they're building a party education system and we'll definitely talk about it more when the time comes. My question is – do you know what education laws are being prepared according to the Minister of the Future and Current, they should enter parliament this summer. I don't think it's possible to create a knowledge society and start reforming the education system without knowing the views or attitudes of the future prime minister, the current prime minister on plagiarized diplomas. You kept quiet about it, and now you haven't said a word about it in the debate. It's impossible to move on and you can't get into reform without knowing your point of view. There is no knowledge society if you support one such system and system that has one hyper-production of master's work, doctoral dissertation, it is impossible for a minister, or prime minister. Another question – who do you want to keep company with? According to your views, you share or support economic reforms by which the salaries were cut to educational workers, and so you sat in line, a basket of ministers who made Serbia the only country in Europe to cut salaries to teachers, teachers, teachers, I mean education. How do you mean when you've taken away your dignity by pay, the ones I mean the educators, the values of our children you've talked about, the dignity of our children should be built. Those are the questions I want answers to.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18507	It's been a while. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18508	A year ago, we had a similar agenda point and there was a proposal, an explanation of one sentence - I believe that the gentleman has professional and personal qualities to perform the post of Prime Minister, and he assured me that he could secure the government's choice. We've made progress this year for two more sentences. In an explanation, the first sentence is the same, the third one – the candidate's proposal says what the new government's goal is, but what is particularly concerned is the second sentence, where the candidate's proposal says - I point out my trust. So it's hard to torture a man to say that he shows his trust in his proposal for the best candidate. Since everything in the Assembly is known in advance, it is known who is the authority, who supports power, who does not support power, who knows who votes. I can't spoil that idyll, nor do I intend to spoil it, because then I'd be called to blend in the wolf's populous wax dei. The people decided what it would be like, what to do. But I find it interesting how the candidate's proposal came to the best candidate. So the best candidate is not one of the former ministers, not one of the MPs, not one who belongs to a political party that forms a coalition power. The man entered the database of all parties that make up the coalition government and didn't find the best. He turned left, right, saw what pains lie ahead of Serbia, that he needed an excellent candidate, the best candidate, almost as a proposing. He asked who was best, who had the greatest wisdom and couldn't make a mistake. He found the best candidate he's sure of that when they call for a cabinet session, Dacic as a member of the government has to blink like a rod, Rasim Ljajic has to salutate, Nenad Popovic has to get the credentials, the best candidate has to seduce the order. It won't be disbanded. It's got to be all right. I'm glad the candidate also found an adequate candidate. However, I was confused here to say that his candidate told him that he had a majority in the assembly and then seven days of a ridiculous Olympics. You there if you don't vote for the best candidate, in the number I've decided, we go to the snap parliamentary elections, you don't steal my mandates, but we'll clear the lists, so those who have to vote will come. And that's it. Well done. It's all in accordance with the rules, you've reached the best candidate, no one suspects it's the best candidate. As far as state affairs are concerned, not counting those political ones, I came to the conclusion, the best politician is the one who doesn't deal with politics. He says the best candidate is the most professional candidate. I look at the biography, I see the NBA, the "Ratko Mitrović" low-building building. He says he's proven himself, especially capable. Since January 1st, the best candidate project has started, he is called the e-baby. So when he's born, he's immediately signed up for computer registration at the maternity ward. And, the second result shown by the best candidate is the e-Zup project. However, the project only takes effect in December this year. What the best candidate in foreign companies has done doesn't mean anything. We had a sexual argument for Bozidar Djelic, so you know what it was like, so we had that Lazar Krstic, and it's not much of a reference, but e-baby, e-Zup, that's the final range. Mild council – when elected Prime Minister, all members of the government are deprived of credit cards so as not to pay the money of the government perfume and everything else. Don't accidentally enter into affairs with which candidates for members of the government are burdened. They are overloaded by affairs, "Gallenika", "Dunav", "Agrobanka", "Coffer", "Banana", "Nisa", "Sharic". Don't hold that in your hands because you're not responsible for what happened before you. You'll be responsible for what happened after you. If you can take away their cards, it'll be the ultimate range of your political management, how do you know you're dealing with people, because the Prime Minister needs to know they're dealing with ministers. If the Prime Minister doesn't know they're dealing with ministers, it's dangerous. I invite you to continue with good practice, you get up an hour early, you sleep an hour later, and every morning at half-eight a line of ministers, to report, because as soon as you turn your back, you shaved the bostan. As far as this European path to the EU is concerned, I learned from reliable sources -- Serbia received in 2389.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18509	The word has Tatjana Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18510	Ladies and gentlemen, we don't have enough time to talk about all the candidates, so I'm just gonna stick around for once. He graduated military school, then the Military Academy. He has advanced in the military hierarchy, perfected in the country and abroad and today is a respected and respected general in the Serbian Army who enjoys and has great respect far beyond our country's borders. This kind of biography, unfortunately, we didn't get it. We're wondering who's taking care of security? A party servant with a very suspicious doctorate has been appointed as Home Secretary. The chairman of the Security Control Committee has been appointed an MP who also has a suspected diploma. For BIA director, Bratislav Gasic was appointed, who, unfortunately, is suspicious. And we just thought that this was the end of the furniture, and now you're running for Secretary of Defense for Mr. Alexander Vulin, who was Mrs. Mira Markovic's right-hand man. Alexander Vulin as defence minister, unfortunately, does not run for absolutely nothing, and his results at the Ministry of Labour clearly say that he must withdraw from politics, but also respond, and not only politically, but possibly criminally if we had an independent prosecutor's office. I will remind you only of the attempt to rob the budget through the contest that Minister Vulin conducted in 2014, which was registered by party and non-governmental organisations established during the contest. The public revealed it and the competition was withdrawn. But there was no responsibility, unfortunately. Do you remember the scandalous policy of conditionaling social assistance on a work commitment? Then what did Alexander Vulin do well in the field of social policy, so now he can edit the defense? When tensions in the region were to be calmed, he was to disintegrate them. When he was supposed to be with the workers, he was resting in the spa centers. When he's supposed to be held accountable, you're rewarding him with a new ministry. In the end, Mrs. Brnabic, by choosing Alexander Vulin as defence minister, you will document the last institution that the citizens are proud of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18511	The word is Gjorge Komlenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18512	Alexander Vulin has graduated from law school, completed the highest security school, a national school that exists in this country and is more than qualified to do the job of the defence minister. About how qualified he is, and all those who supported it, and also supported General Lazarevic, and were encouraged by many others who know Alexander Vulin, his abilities, his opportunities and very well know what needs to be done further and what is useful for this country. The results and successes of the Ministry of Labour, Social Policy, martial arts in the previous period, where no social giving in the past period has been diminished, where all the givings have arrived on time, absolutely speak of how capable Alexander Vulin is and how successful he is in doing his job. What particularly qualify him is his success in the control of the migrant crisis. When everyone said it wasn't a job for him, recognition was given to him by the whole world, recognition was given to Serbia precisely because Alexander Vulin was the most involved in the problem of the migrant crisis in the Republic of Serbia. The only Ministry of Social Policy of the Republic of Serbia has been dealing with migrant problems, other ministries have been dealing with in all other countries. We will not answer the baseless accusations of those who have been idolized by unsuccessful bankruptcy managers, king's bankruptcys and those caught leaving the ministry by fleeing with documentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18513	Thank you. Ljupka Mihaylovska is not here. The word has the People's Messenger Ratko Jankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18514	A respected candidate for office, respected candidates for ministers, respected colleagues, the time I can devote to this is quite short, so I'm just going to be the part I understand myself with, which is part of my education. About a year ago, we had confidence that education would be repaired, that it would be a feather of all this. A year later in a great exhibition we heard from Mrs. Brnabic, we heard that education is extremely important. What I'm very sorry for is, I can assure you that all these moves that the Ministry of Education has made over the past year have not led in that direction. One of the things that is true is this draft roof law that clearly contains one thing – that dual education is part of secondary education, and in no way is worth introducing new, how can I say, terms for something that has never been and will not be part of university education. Targeted education is a very large handicap and does not go in the direction of what the Serbian Education Development Strategy predicted by 2020. Unfortunately, I can say that today you mentioned the National Educational Council again in a bad context, that it prevented the introduction of the subject of information last year. The real truth is that the National Educational Council, in order to fix the matter, has put it off for a year until the conditions are met. So, the license was given this year. Even this year's conditions aren't met. This year, two months ago, the National Educational Council made a decision on the basis of the assurance that school equipment would be good enough for such a single curriculum to be implemented at all. Unfortunately, that too was not enough to put the National Educational Council in a bad context. I think it's one of the most important institutions in Serbia. Anyway, all this legal stuff that we've gotten so far in the announcement, I'm afraid they're not in the right direction, and it's going to get worse and worse the way it's going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18515	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Vladimir Zagrajin.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18516	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected Mrs Brnabic, respected candidates for members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, has taken a significant place in the mandate's exhibition of security issues both internally and externally. For our country, this is of particular importance, given that Serbia is leading a policy of military neutrality. This is exactly the kind of balanced approach that provides us with the possibility of quality military-technical co-operation with the countries of the East and West, with Russia, with China, with the United States, as well as with EU and other countries. This co-operation is achieved both at bilateral and multilateral level through military and civilian missions under the auspices of the UN and the EU, in which our participants make a significant contribution and show a high level of professionality and responsibility. We are sure that this government of the Republic of Serbia will continue to participate for decades in a number of peacekeeping multilateral operations with the intention of expanding these activities in the future. In addition, Serbia actively participates in the fight against international terrorism, which is a major security challenge at global level. The previous government has done much, intensive work to strengthen our military defence capacities, and I would especially point out the strengthening of our military industry, which has increased both production and export significant investments by the state. It is also important to note that many innovations in military and technical equipment have reached the level of successful military-industrial complexes in the world. We are proud of products such as "Milos", "Lazar", "Nora", "Alas" rockets and many others. The companies of our dedicated industry, such as SDPR, "The First Five-year-old", "The First Partizan", "Completed Battle Systems", "The flag of arms", "Krusik" Valjevo, "Freedom" Cačak, are part of this successful project and contribute not only to the spheres of defence, but to overall economic growth, employment and export activities of our country. There is no need to ignore the fact that in 2016 a record increase in arms and military equipment exports of nearly 52 billion dinars was recorded, or close to $500 million. Such encouraging results certainly provide an additional motive, an additional impulse to develop the dedicated industry, which the SPS strongly supports. When we talk about security on the internal agenda, except for the primary role that the military and police play, which is to defend, preserve order and peace, is a significant role in humanitarian activities, especially in helping the population and eliminating the consequences of major natural disasters, which are due to global climate change, unfortunately more and more. It is an area in which we must also invest in continuity in order to be able to respond in a timely and effective manner to all the challenges and risks our citizens face. Given that technological development brings new security challenges, it is very important that our military and police are technically and staffed, so that they can respond to all the challenges, risks and threats, especially in the field of information security. The fact is that digital security knows no state borders and requires intensive defence, defensive co-operation on a global scale. The previous government, in this regard, has taken a significant step by adopting a Strategy for the Development of Information Security, which is our obligation in the EU accession process. We believe that this government will also bring forward an action plan for the implementation of this strategy, which will take another step towards further improving the overall system in this area. Finally, the SPS particularly supports the formation of two new ministries -- the European Integration Ministry and the Ministry of Environment Protection, which were created as a result of real needs both from the strategic and from the organisational aspect. The formation of the European Integration Ministry gives an additional impulse to our European path and confirms our country's strategic goal, which is full EU membership. On the other hand, it is equally important to form a new reactor in the field of ecology, especially given that of all the regulations that our country needs to comply with European, 1/3 refers precisely to the area of environmental protection. The data show that Serbia has improved environmental protection, but that it could be achieved in full capacity with the use of EU pre-accession funds, so it was necessary to form a special portfolio. This area is very complex and requires very high standards of sustainable development and rational use of all natural resources. By adopting such a proposal, Serbia shows an even greater determination in its intention to lead responsible and dedicated environmental protection activities, to increase efficiency in this area and increase the negotiating force in the process of Eurointegration. Finally, the SPS parliamentary group will support this projected policy and the composition of the future new government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18517	The word has a national emissary, Ana Stevanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18518	Thank you. Dear Mrs Brnabic, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers and Ministers, fellow MPs, I listened carefully to your presentation, even more carefully read the proposed programme of work of the Republic of Serbia, trying to find only one syntax, which is free media. Unfortunately, I have not been able to find this syntagma, and I sincerely hope that the absence of this syntagma does not mean that the freedom of the media will not be among the priorities of the government on which you will be headed. I remind you that no government has begun its mandate in this atmosphere of terrible violations of media laws and media freedoms. In your exposé, you talk about the continuation of the path to the EU, noting that the EU is a role model for democracy. I remind you that the precondition of a regulated, fair and democratic society is the rule of law and, above all, free media. They're the strictest critics of government and government controllers. Also, it is their duty and the meaning of their existence, and each of us should know that there are no free societies without free media. Today, media in Serbia are all but free, and Serbia insists on every media freedom list. Many NGOs and numerous journalistic independent associations are constantly talking about it. However, what they say rarely finds any echo by state officials, as well as by the government itself. Independent journalists and media are being targeted by day-to-day attacks by those mediamen who serve exclusively to deal with political insinuators and government critics. I would remind you, if in any society the freedom of the media is not secured, then no other freedom can be guaranteed. In the exposé, you stressed the importance of developing a critical opinion in young people, and there is no basis for this without media which freely and without fear criticise all actions of the current authorities. In your speech, you said a nice thought. In fact, you said that only the winning societies are going to meet the change, not the contempt of them. So how will you help reduce censorship and prevent illicit political influence on the media? What are you going to do to stop once and for all with the illicit political influence on the media, which is only the first step towards achieving the media freedoms that have been completely trampled in our country and that have divided us for hundreds of years from organized society? I look forward to your answer. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18519	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Jasmina Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18520	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished Mrs. Brnabic, ladies and gentlemen, I will talk about the part of the programme relating to education. Since I have little time, don't mind me wasting my time pointing to some discrepancies between the exposé initiatives and the current regulations that have entered the public debate, or a public debate has passed, although there are many good proposals, concrete proposals in the government's programme, such as streamlining the school network. So I'm going to be very constructive. On the side of the 79th programme, the government said education should achieve innovation, critical thinking and entrepreneurship. It's totally in line with the strategy. That's right. These words should be inserted into the Draft Law on Higher Education, since critical opinion is not among the objectives, and entrepreneurship should also be not a particular principle and should be, especially since you have defined it very well, saying on page 81 that entrepreneurship is a necessary element of development more than a teaching course, as a attitude, a way of life and a relationship to it. So he deserves to be found in the law. On page 82, a colleague has already talked about this, talking about dual education in the context of higher education. That's confusing. It's not in the draft of the high law, and the draft of the dual law says it's an integral part of high school. We should either clarify, or see if it changes the regulation. What's going on with that? On the side of the 84th program, it is crucial to change the way the colleges are financed by new laws. It's a very serious instrument and leverage. What remains unclear is why it stands out of the draft of a new law on higher education financing into a special law, which is contrary to actually an action plan that says that funding is...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18521	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18522	Just in the end to say that the set of laws is certainly going into procedure, there will be plenty of opportunities for amendments. I hope the talks will be constructive. I support you in what you have highlighted as significant, that it will be constructive and await. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18523	Thank you. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18524	Thank you, Your Honor. My fellow Members and fellow MPs, candidates for ministers, distinguished Mrs. Brnabic, at the very beginning, I would like to say that we MPs of the SDS Sandzak will not support this government. From the point of view of the Bosniak representatives, we believe that there is no minimum reason for us to vote neither for the government's composition nor for the programme that you put before us as the prime minister. When I say that the composition of this government is not acceptable to us, I refer first of all to the fact that no human and minority rights ministry enters this government. In Serbia, 21 national communities live, with more than 1,300,000 citizens living in the country. You have entrusted the authority for so many citizens to the level of one government office, but it is not the only parameter of the current bad attitude towards minorities, which you are obviously continuing. The best indicator of how they cared about minorities is the amount defined in the minority fund in the Republic of Serbia's budget, which is 1,800,000 dinars, for projects in the fields of culture, education, information and equal use of languages and letters. So 1,300,000 citizens of this country have been assigned 1,800,000 dinars. The government's programme for us is not acceptable, because it is not enough to look at national minorities in just one sentence of general character, and you say that the diversity they make is a reason for pride for all in Serbia, which is true, however, should have been much more concrete as a mandate when it comes to achieving and improving human and minority rights. You didn't tell us what time you were planning to pass the roof law on national minorities and national councils, you didn't even mention it, which is why I don't share the optimism and excitement of colleagues from the ruling coalition. As representatives of Bosniaks, it was of paramount importance for us to hear if you have a plan to finally bring together the national structure of employees in the police, judiciary, prosecution and other state bodies with public authority, with the structure of the population in the Sanjay municipalities. All reports on Serbia's progress in European integration say that Sandzak continues to express the lack of representation of Bosniaks in these state institutions, that there is enormous unemployment and underdevelopment. These are specific tasks for the government, and we haven't heard a word from you. All of this should have been the subject of the action plan for chapters 23, 24, especially of the part concerning national minorities, but all of the requirements that the legitimate representatives of the Bosniaks asked for within the work of the working group were rejected. For specific examples of culture, education, information and use of language and letter, there are many arbitraryities, we will certainly discuss them much during your term of office. What was also important to hear from you is whether and how you plan to continue the work of the working group to change the political system and the Serbian Constitution, and how you plan to implement the decentralisation and regionalisation process of Serbia that is extremely necessary. Of course, the rule of law, legal certainty and equality before the law are for us extremely important things that we haven't heard from you a concrete plan about how you plan to...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18525	Thank you, colleague Imamovic. The word has been made by the People's MP Novice Tonchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18526	Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, distinguished candidates for members of the government, this opportunity and time I have at my disposal will be used to give a few suggestions and suggestions that I believe as worthy people and you as people in charge of the Serbian government in the upcoming mandate to consider. It is the problems I have seen, less as an MP, and more like a man whose street citizens have been showing confidence for almost ten years, as well as a businessman who has been running his company since 1988. I personally believe that Ana Brnabic will be a good prime minister, because I convinced myself last year when she proposed amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government, where better distribution of local income on profit tax protected all municipalities, especially underdeveloped municipalities. Also, I suggest that in the next period, as prime minister, you are even more concerned with tax policy measures, especially in undeveloped municipalities. I would also ask you to consider a certain tax solution that, for example, is successfully applied in Italy. You know that in Italy we have a rich north and poor south and I ask you to pay particular attention to economic policy in undeveloped municipalities, especially in the south and east of our country. We have seen and read in the media these days, as well as several MPs, and you yourself have said and listed the Municipality of Smederjevska Palanka, how much money they spent. I come from a poor municipality and I can show you a copy of the account of the Surdulic municipality, where today there are about a million euros, or a hundred million dinars, and you can see for yourself, and those who visit the Surdulic municipality and viewers by the small screens, we know what the Surdulic municipality did. The municipalities come to bankruptcy for two reasons. One of the reasons is that we have been reduced from a republican level and increased jurisdiction, and the other is not the domestic behaviour of certain presidents of municipalities and cities. As long as I'm here with local self-government and state administration, I want to talk a little bit about reducing the workforce, that is, the law on the number of employees. We know that in 2009, a lex specialis law was passed on reducing the number of employees in local self-government. However, I can tell you that all those who were then out of a job, regardless of what was done by law, evaluation and all that was necessary, all thanks to the judgments were returned to work and local self-government are now paying for that unhappiness, paying contributions, as well as interest. So I ask you to pay attention to labour cuts, and as an experienced man who runs the municipality, I can tell you an example. Surdulica municipality had a salary mass around 8 to 8.5 million in 2008 and 2009, until the law came out. Now we have about 15 million, because by reducing the workforce we have to hire a lot of agencies through which we pay various taxes, contributions, and the salaries of the workers we miss. So we need to do well to do the math that is more favourable and how to reduce the workforce. Also, you should keep an eye on, now my friend Branko Ruzic has taken over your portfolio, about the salary billing coefficient, especially the salaries of local self-government employees who finished high school. An example is that the labour price coefficient is sometimes less than the minimum, which we are legally obliged to pay. I'm counting on my friend Branko Ruzic to work on it, and we as experienced people are here to help him. It is good that the Serbian government will also get the European Integration Ministry, as this is a way for better co-operation on IPARD projects, cross-border co-operation. I come from a municipality where investment is now realised about five million euros, right from IPARD projects. It's also important to do a good audit. I have an example of how the auditory house punished the Municipality of Surdulica with 47,000 euros without the right to appeal and without any paper. Here I want to remind the future Minister of European Integration, as well as the Minister of Justice, that no one can take money from local self-government without local self-government having the right to appeal, or any legal remedy. That's why I'm asking you to take care of this. I also ask the European Integration Minister for the next time to receive people from the municipality of Surdulic to resolve this problem, as 40,000 euros is a great money for an undeveloped municipality. The justice minister is also a big job in the coming period, which is to free the prosecution and judges from the influence of politics. As far as the Department of Defense is concerned, I'd like to call the new Secretary of Defense. We know that a lot of money has been invested in Surdulica in the renovation of the barracks, i.e. the military complex that stands empty and I would ask the defence minister to consider in the next period to resuscitate the barracks in Surdulica. As for the Ministry of Health, I think it is very important to prevent doctors from leaving Surdulica, Serbia, and also from Surdulica where we have about 30 doctors on the desk. I read the news that Germany is asking about 1,500 Serbian doctors to pay around 2,000 euros. We as a state certainly cannot offer that salary, but the health ministry must urgently prepare a proposal to solve this problem, otherwise there will be no people to treat us, because people will not work so hard for 500 euros. I'm up for it, and I know you're ministers too, to raise the doctors' salaries, and to hire our doctors. We also have a problem of blockades around individual medical centres, and we local self-government are helping medical centres, but we have a problem with funding, saying that the lower authority of the government can't finance higher, or local self-government can't finance the ministry, and that's why we have problems with the functioning of health centres. I hope, in the future, and I trust you, Minister, that we will solve this problem. I'm a quick finisher, I just have some more around the Sports Ministry, where I want to congratulate our athletes who won awards in certain sports organisations, and I'm also a sports worker for collective sports, and I want to work here on the privatisation law, the law on club financing. I'm also asking the minister of police to help us secure various sporting events. Since my colleagues are speeding me up to shorten my speech, I would just like to welcome the formation of the Ministry of Ecology and to help us with a project funded by the EU, which is a sewer ring on Lake Vlassin which will help the whole end and development and employment of new people. Finally, we support the Serbian government headed by the new prime minister, and I wish you great success, because the success of your work is the success of us MPs who vote for you. I thank you and wish you happy work.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18527	Thank you, Comrade Tonchev. The word has a folk MP, Jadranka Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18528	Dear Chairman, I thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to address this esteemed gathering, although I know there are many speakers and many who might want to turn around. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like and believe it is necessary and I believe that for these reasons I have been given the opportunity to address and say a few things about work, results, and first of all about expectations relating to the Ministry of Culture and Information, although I would personally prefer to talk about the Ministry of Culture without this information. For example, you mentioned very well in your exposé – tourism. Somehow I'd like to talk about the Ministry of Culture with the Ministry of Tourism. We are witnessing that our country, our city and Serbia in general is an exceptional destination, very popular in the modern world, and the growing number of tourists who are interested in our country, I am convinced that culture could be very much in the broad field and plan to lean on tourism, and, among other things, to bring, in my opinion, one serious and large income. Please let me have some relative silence as I speak. As for the Ministry of Information - why did I say I wish he wasn't with the Ministry of Culture? It seems to me that culture is very suffering, that in some way it is not only about the culture budget, but also about a serious field that is being broken mainly by the political spear, which is a field that, as far as I can see, has always served every opposition to discuss freedom of information, and we, I must tell you, artists are also dissatisfied with that, but I would say, for quite another reason. First of all, it refers to the amount of freedom, to the possibility of writing everything and saying that it is false, and that it is not sanctioned, that there is no responsibility for this written word, and I ask you precisely because many here have pointed out as the negativity of your non-partisanness, in my opinion it is even an advantage, because I think that you can look at things and also at those concerning information, and above all refer to the collapse of institutions, such as the National Assembly and I have witnessed it in these years when we have a seminar for MPs, where we are drawn attention to trying not to give ourselves the opportunity to be used in a negative context, and I am a witness that this has happened and when we do not give any reason. So, I think briefly, I will try to be brief, so that institutions such as the National Assembly and all the other institutions of the Government should not be destroyed, and I am convinced that you and the other ministers would have the strength to do so, to sanction, to find a legal framework for information, that everyone is above all with serious responsibility without fear, which is likely to exist, that the country is not accused of censorship and everything that you politicians know much better than I do. I'd like to say I'm very glad you brought up China. I recently returned from China myself. China is a great force, great power, not just an economic miracle. We support the opening of the Serbian Cultural Centre in China and every co-operation with China in the field of culture, and above all in all other fields. We expect that national recognitions which the previous ministry has abolished should also be implemented, to define the criteria for granting national recognitions. No one complains about recognitions when it comes to sports, it is necessary that there are national recognitions for artists. Also, we expect and please, this is very important, to return the names of national institutions of national importance. In the Strategy for Culture, there are institutions of national importance, but the name of institutions of special national importance has been abolished in law. And another little observation, but I'm done. A little, but a very big one. The vast majority of SNS, along with their coalition partners, were given the opportunity to lead this country, the responsibility to lead it, and to applaud it when it's okay and to express criticism when it's not. It happened, and at least it happened when it came to culture. It's something to talk about, what to whisper, talk about, but it's a place in the congregation to say it. So, a large number of those who participate in the management of culture, in our country are inherited people from previous regimes and that is nothing disputed, but it is disputed that they follow the policy of these regimes. This primarily refers to, say, co-operation, with an exclusive Europe, which is also commendable to Western countries. The previous ministry completely abolished any co-operation with Russia and thanks to Mr. Cotric, I owned a document when the former minister did not sign the co-operation of Orthodox countries with Russia in Moscow. So fortunately, in this case with the new ministry, it has changed, but what has not changed, and I am glad that the minister has just entered, is that as the minister has succeeded in changing this resistance to Russia, I expect you to personally ask Mrs. Brnabic, that this relationship changes when it comes to African countries and all other countries. Because it is impossible for us to be happy when some African countries help us without voting for Kosovo's independence, and then some, we know by name and last name, and I absolutely stand behind this with evidence, witnesses, and besides, there is currently a correspondence between Algeria, the Minister of Culture with our ministry, which is what there is, I will not now retain everything, knows the minister of what it is, and I can inform you of another time, there is a serious correspondence in our Foreign Ministry that ignores co-operation with countries, or looks at it underestimously. I ask you, the policy of former Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, whom I have personally supported and what our current president specifically says, and believe me, even if he doesn't say, I would consider to be someone who has traveled the whole world, who, as you have said, has realized that the world rests on diversity, that it's just a wealth and only a point plus, I would never, ever, ever, ever give any examples now that I wouldn't serve anyone for a replica, there's no country that can't learn from and there's no culture with which we don't need to change. By the way, I most kindly ask you to follow politics and culture to cooperate with all the countries of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18529	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has a folk MP, Marija Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18530	Thank you, Chairman. Mrs. Brnabic, candidates for ministers, fellow MPs, I am glad that my colleague Jovanovic spoke before me, because I want to continue in that spirit and in that atmosphere. I don't know if I'll be able to be the last speech we'll hear in this discussion, but I'll speak in that tone. I'm going to try and talk with a smile on my face, because I think everything that's been going on for the last two days is really saying that better times are coming for Serbia. For me, it was truly very positive of your exposure at the beginning of yesterday. It was a very different tone. I've never heard the Prime Ministers speak that way. It's a completely different way, it's a different energy, it's different, I'm not going to say vision, because this is really the continuity of what was in the previous government and in that government since 2012, but it's going to agree with me all of you, and those you're nice to and who you're not, that you're carrying different energy, that you're carrying something that can be called one word modern in the best sense and in the broadest sense. I'm not just talking about your appearance, the way you communicate and the energy you carry, both in work and in port, I'm talking about your view of how you see your teamwork and how you see yourself at the head of that teamwork. I also want to talk today about the context in which we chose today's government. Why did I say I wanted a smile on my face? Because there were a lot of painful moments during this debate. It's not because one of us or perhaps you as someone who defends this composition of the government, you don't have enough arguments, but because we've seen a lot of wounded people in this room. I'm talking about wounded people who've been hurt by vanity, we're breaking their prejudices and stereotypes, and it hurts a lot. None of us want to admit it, but it hurts a lot. When we're alone and when we ask ourselves, what really bothers me about this proposal for prime minister? It bothers me that she's something new and something I don't know, it's unique to the human psyche, that what's new and unknown, that man's afraid of it. There were several sentences in your exposé that were not new, but that should be repeated, because I think they were underlining several very important things that will be seen later during the work of this government. I will not talk much about the figures, nor about the results of this government, because not only were MPs talking about it during this discussion and during the previous years, many very important international institutions and financial and political ones have spoken of it. In the end, Serbia's progress on the "duing business" list, within many other indicators, suggests that what the team has been doing since 2012, since the SNS took responsibility for running the government to date, shows that we are moving ahead with big steps. It's heavy steps, it's iron boots, but we're going forward. It is very good that at the moment when something that has never happened in Serbia's political history, which is that a man from the prime minister's post should be elected to such a majority of 55% of the votes as president of Serbia, so not what we heard these days, he fled, he left, not talking about it. Those are words you should be ashamed of. Choose your words, because they are our weapons today in this field. He is Serbia's president and leaving the prime minister's post. He made a political shift, a historic political shift, and something that is a lesson for many people who deal with politics in Serbia when we talk about lessons, I want to congratulate you on the degree of tolerance, patience, patience. You also showed it during this debate, and during the previous days. You have taught a lesson of decency to all Serbia. You've personally been offended and professionally patient in a way that should be a positive example and people should look up to it. The insults you have suffered, you have responded in a way, and so should Zorana Mihajlović and Gordana Comić and me and colleagues who have been insulted here today. What my colleague Mircic did, I say, because we work in the Serbian Parliament together, otherwise I can't be called a colleague by the degree of some other characteristics, so what Mircic has done today is to drag away his discussion in such a vulgar way is something that should be ashamed of every MP in the Serbian Parliament. Your statement: "Just insult me, I will continue to work and to change Serbia, and to change it for the better," should indeed be the motto of all of us who often feel offended and humiliated in the Serbian Parliament, and in particular I mean MPs. You're accepting the position, i.e. Coming to the prime minister's position, in fact, did much more for gender equality in Serbia and for fighting homophobia than any NGO and civil sector in Serbia did. You may not be aware of that right now. I think of it as someone who is a fighter for human, especially women's rights in Serbia. Often, people have no intention of doing so, and I don't believe it was among your priorities while you've accepted these candidacys, but often people do it unconsciously because they're standing around and feel comfortable in the roles they've decided to accept in life. Everything we have seen during these two days, and positive and negative, speaks strongly about all of us and the Serbian Parliament, but also in all of Serbia. The results of the Serbian government have been highly assessed and continue at the same pace. This is the continuity and all priorities of the government that were in the previous period will be continued with all two very important accents for me – digitisation and education, very, very important two points. They're repeating some of the sentences from your exposé, because I think they're important, and I'd like people to pay a little more attention to that and that everyone in their area is trying to make the most of it. We will insist on analytical thinking, on finding a solution. Try to get everyone in their area to do just that. Do not be blind followers of what is imposed upon you. Don't give up on the first obstacle, special message for the young. The fact that you as a young and educated woman, who opened all the doors anywhere in the world, decided to stay here and fight for Serbia, to serve your country honorably, is something that reminds you of those pillars of Serbian traditional education. As modern as Ana Brnabić is and is a leader in what she is currently doing, do not forget that this leadership is actually based on traditional principles. Be open to what the papers are. It's the only way we're gonna be the society of leaders, the modern society that draws us forward. Serbia is a country of capable, smart people. We need more energy and more leaders. Don't wait for someone to point at you with a finger that you're a leader. Show it from day to day, show it with your respect, your education. Show your respect for your colleagues, your jobs, your duties, and your assignments. Responsibility is something we should all remind ourselves of in Serbia. One more sentence, and I'm done with it, and I really liked it. How brave we are to step into the future in Serbia today. I believe that the people who vote for you today and this government proposal are not aware of how brave they are. That's why we're together, that's why we're teams, because at any time, whoever feels his moment is pulling her forward, and the rest of us are following him. We're not aware of the moment, but we feel that it's what Serbia is, it's the impulse we need right now. One more congratulations to all the candidates for ministers in this government. I think you've been working and you'll be doing a great job. Anna, thank you for accepting this candidacy. I think there's a very important task ahead of you. I believe in your energy, first of all, and that you will not give up. It is very important for the president of Serbia and you as prime minister to be a great, inseparable team. Looks to me like you're on your way. The Serbian Progressive Party will support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18531	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18532	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Prime Minister, honourable candidates for ministers, fellow MPs, I patiently listened for two days to discussions and efforts and you as prime minister, as well as MPs of the ruling parties to convince Serbian citizens that all this has been happening in the last five years under the conductor's stick of Alexander Vukic, some great results, that we should be grateful that we are very well in Serbia and I see that we have very much resisted doing so. I will try to speak with facts and arguments, not to say that I am speaking casually about certain things, but before that, as regards your exposé, which is the fourth since 2012, the fifth government since 2012, I don't know if we should even look at it so much and pay attention to it because these previous ones, who were not one of them, were the end of the mandate, nor this last year's Alexander Vukic, who was declared by some SNS MPs for scientific work. So your exposés can't say it's bad either. I would like it to be realized in Serbia, as I said to Alexander Vukic last year. Unfortunately, here, after a year, it turns out that what we said wasn't going to happen in Serbia, that it's actually true. There's a lot of general places in your exposé, a lot of phrases. I've managed barely half of an old woman to single out some essential and crucial things. Of course, there is no way to reach the objectives you have defined by the exposé, but there are also those things that are repeated from the exposé of the previous Prime Minister Vukic, such as management, reduction of bureaucratic procedures, to stop brain drains, economic reforms, efficiency, balanced foreign policy, etc. In this way, whether you know it or not, you're the most exposed to the previous prime minister, who in all these five years has actually failed to do what you were talking about in your exposé. As for you and your results personally, Mrs. Brnabic, I know that you have had great experience and worked in the NGO sector on various projects and followed the results. I believed and believed in you in fact last year, when you became Minister of Local Self-Government and State Administration, that you would continue with these reforms in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This is NAED's Grey Book 8. There are nine of these, and there is one more. So, from 2008 to today, NAED, which is also the biggest reference to the function for which you have been entrusted, gave these books all the recommendations to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the state to remove all obstacles and procedures for the growth and development of the economy in Serbia, for a better life and standards of citizens in the Republic of Serbia. I'm just going to read you some things that are factual from NAED, and I hope you think they're true and that you believe they're true. So, as far as the international competitiveness list, the global competitiveness index in certain areas, by wasteful government consumption, of 140 countries in the world, Serbia was 129 in last year, and this year it was 124. Public debt of GDP - 111. By independence of the judiciary we are in 122nd place of 140 countries. According to our property rights, we are 126th place out of 140 countries. At the quality of the education system we are in 103rd place, and at the level of co-operation of employees and employers in 126th place. That vault belonged to Mr. Vulin, or it belonged to him. That's why you're flying out of the government, and you don't get a reward to run the Department of Defense in the next period. As for the quality of the roads, from 114th place we fell to 115th place this year. So these are the facts and these are the arguments that I want to talk about. Also, Mrs. Brnabic, I must tell you that in the past five years, governments have been indisputable facts about the government's borrowing, citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia, that this is just over nine billion in these five years. It is also indisputable that GDP growth is very small and far below what you have announced. I will also read you this data, the IMF, the European Commission and our Statistics Institute: real GDP growth rates from 2012 to 2016, the average is 0.7%, 2016 2.7%, 2015 0.8%, far less than Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. Also, statistics related to net average wages in the region -- in Serbia a net average salary of 385 euros, according to data from this year, and 395 was in 2012, five years ago. So, less pay citizens have today than five years ago. And today far smaller than the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina. You as the minister who has been putting me in trust for the past year have done nothing of reform, even though, while you were working, you stood up for it. You've passed all of the laws, and that's the law on the reduction of funds for local self-government. Digitalisation, Mrs. Brnabic, will not solve the problems of citizens of Serbia, nor the depopulation, which is growing, nor the problem of raspberries, nor will you develop agriculture with drones and sensors, nor will digitalisation manage to reduce the number of absolutely poor, which today in Serbia is 600,000, million and 800 at the poverty line. You will not stop either the outflow of young people, nor will you solve the problem of high centralised in Serbia, public debt, GDP, etc. I didn't see you talking about the strategic development plan, nor about the even regional development, and most importantly, you didn't talk about either the system of values or the system of institutions that have been destroyed for the last five years by Alexander Vukic. As far as one more thing is concerned, why I can't support the government's choice is a team. If you've suggested this team of ministers, so much more trouble. If that's what Alexander Vukic suggested, which I believe, because he has political power, then it's also a big problem. I would like you to explain to me, you have not answered any fellow MP in previous discussions, what are the qualifications of individual ministers, with the honor of exceptions, to perform these functions? Especially Minister Alexander Vulin, who, apart from loving to be photographed in uniforms and who hallucinated some 97 murderers near the Prime Minister's house, I don't know what qualified him to run the Department of Defense? I don't mind you playing like you've been playing for five years, but I have a problem if you're playing with the state. So you can't solve one click of the problems facing Serbian citizens, whether it's digitisation or anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18533	Thanks, buddy. A colleague named Srdjan Nogo, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18534	I'd like to point out that he's a injured member of 106. You were in charge, the chairman, of reacting and of trying to secure peace in the O.R. with the bell. There are only a few minutes left for exposure and please, Mr. Marinkovic, I beg you, here, we have the same situation again. They have two other opposition representatives very little time to speak, and I think it's both right and fair to listen to these people until the end. I know that MPs in the ruling majority are in a hurry, that when they hear the truth about the government and the results of Alexander Vukic's government in the last five years, I know that reality hurts, that you live in a virtual world and in your lies, but simply, wait, listen to the end, be collegiate. You'll be able to vote on the bell almost there.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18535	The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. There's only one minute and 41 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18536	We heard from you that the key promise will be continuity with all previous governments. For the past five years, the fifth government. If continuity is the average duration of government for a year, it's not a big promise for the great reach of this government. The second important thing to compare is the height of GDP that the first government in this system has set out to do. In 2011, it was, I speak in absolute numbers, 33 billion and 400 million euros. The year 2016 ended with 34 billion and 100m euros. So in this five-year period of continuity, here are five governments, and the total growth of gross social product was 1.75%, which means, on average, in those five years, 0.35% of GDP growth. I believe you don't want such continuity and I wouldn't want you to have such a continuity of growth, because it promises nothing good for our country. If you promise the continuity of public debt growth of 10 billion euros in the five-year cycle, the fall of the National Bank's foreign reserve of one billion euros will certainly not be good for our country and there will be warnings of the Fiscal Council that discusses the close bankruptcy of the largest cities in Serbia, Kragujevac, Nis, Belgrade, Novi Sad, which could sink public finances in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18537	Time. Thank you. Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18538	Dear Miss Brnabic, at the end of this big debate on the choice of government that you should be in charge of, I can only say, in front of the citizens of Serbia, that you have not answered a single question asked by MPs of the Dvori, and we have asked you 20 questions. That makes it clear that you're hiding things. First of all, you hide that you have never participated in the elections, that no one has ever voted for you, that you have not provided this majority that should vote for you now, that you have not proposed any minister in this government, that in this way, the Serbian Progressive Party's will to have its Prime Minister, that the socialists who have been promised that Ivica Dacic will also be Prime Minister, etc. In one word, most of Serbia's citizens were deceived because no one, and especially the SPS and SNS voters, voted not to make you the prime minister. These days I meet a huge number of voters, both the SPS and the SNS, and I haven't met a single person who told me he supports your election as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. What is particularly important is that you did not answer the key question – which foreign intelligence service did you work for and did you pass the BIA security check that you could be an agent of foreign interest to be in the position of Prime Minister and that you could continue to work for American interests as in US companies and NGOs where you worked as Prime Minister? Serbia's Dvora movement votes against your election because we do not want foreign agents to rule Serbia anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18539	Thank you. The word is Miroslav Aleksic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18540	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm advocating Article 6. The Rules of Procedure, that during the speech of the Messengers of the people, he should not be distracted by other Messengers of the people. The whole time Mr. Obradovic spoke, MPs were throwing away, as was the case with me for a moment. I understand that you are in a hurry to end the vote as soon as possible, to cool the champagne there, not to warm up the rest of what you have prepared from the food, but I ask you to honor the citizens of Serbia who are watching this assembly and allow us all to say what we have, without breaking in and calling out MPs from our benches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18541	Ambassador, we've been discussing the government for two days. You can't say that someone's looking forward to it now or I don't know. You've wasted your time. The public will judge whether you did it in a good way or not. Now the debate is over, I can't do anything about it. There's still George Komlensky for a while and that's it. We have to vote. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18542	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, the distinguished Mrs. Brnabic, the candidate for prime minister and future Prime Minister of the government that you have proposed to us to vote for your election and for the choice of this government that you nominated, I must first of all congratulate you on the courage to head the most important institutions in this country and lead a team that has set very high standards in the previous period. Since 2012 since SNS and its coalition partners entered power, first through the institution of the vice-prime minister, then through the institution of the prime minister, Aleksandar Vukic and the team who led you set very high standards and you are expected to continue in this direction and in this direction. Serbia, which was on the edge of the ambis in 2012, is today a country standing on its feet. For this reason, it will be much easier for you to be a good selector, to be a good captain, to be a good team leader. You draw our trust from what you have shown by your work, but also from what you have been suggested by a man who received 56% of the votes and the absolute trust of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the elections for the President of the Republic of Serbia. From there you have confidence, and you will draw strength from your team, from what you know, from what you know and from supporting everything good you intend and from what you have indicated that the Serbian government will do for the benefit of Serbian citizens in the future. I have no doubt of success, because Serbia is also matured and mature by having for the first time, some of us both a privilege and an honor, to vote and to choose a woman as Prime Minister. We have no doubt that you will be zealous, that you will be engaged and we have no doubt at all that Serbia will continue on the path to a better tomorrow, continue to build its independence, preserve its integrity and will be a military neutral country in the future. I expect you not to rush, and we know that you are not, and before time we start raising standards in an imaginary way, as some did and led Serbia to the brink of destruction. The government's work in which you were only a minister has led to a position so far that Serbia can raise the standard of its citizens but on the real money and real funds achieved. Everything you've done in these two days has affected that if anyone, well-intentioned, had any doubt that you are someone who can lead the government of the Republic of Serbia, you've scattered it all, and I'm sure this government will go even stronger, even faster, better, because Serbia is winning.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18543	Thank you, time MP. Since all the authorities have used their time, according to Article 96, for the rest of the time, the word is Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18544	Thank you. First, I must say that I am extremely moved by the concerns of some MPs and MPs for SNS voters. It's very touching to me, as if the SNS can take care of itself, so maybe these others could take care of themselves, and then they could have a majority like this in the National Assembly. On the other charges of foreign agentry and the like, I'm not going to answer absolutely. I will not answer because they were primarily an insult to the Republic of Serbia, this state and all its citizens, because I was elected to the National Assembly of Serbia ten months ago as Minister of State Administration in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You think the state of Serbia is such a funny country that none of the security services would react at that time. It's terrible what you think of your country. Finally, there are a lot of questions I haven't been able to answer, and I apologize to the MPs and I promise to come to Parliament to answer questions about diplomats, PhDs, and the salaries of teachers who were represented here as if nothing had been invested here, that it had suffered the most. The professor's salaries increased twice, 4%, 1 January 2016 another 6%, 1 January 2017 a one-time aid of seven thousand dinars for 140 thousand people in education, etc. I have the data, I can't answer everything, but just one example for national minorities, let's say, that the state of Serbia separates over 305 million dinars annually for national minorities, 245 million dinars from the republican budget, 60 million from the province's government budget, plus there goes the extra money from local self-government. So over 305 million dinars go out of the budget. We have the data because we know what we're doing. But how hard it was to defend both my team and everything that the previous government did, whose member I was, was also a proud member of the Minister for State Administration and local self-government, how difficult it is to respond to accusations that have no basis in reality. Yet, even at the end of this day, it best shows the fact that the police were accused of beating raspberries in Požega two days ago. But now I'm going to tell you, I told you, the police never beat the raspberries in Požega, but what's most amazing, what's now come to me from Požega, that this year in Požega, they weren't even protests of the raspberries. So it's so credible what we were supposed to answer to today and yesterday. I did my best, I tried to explain what we were doing, what we were gonna do. I guarantee you, absolute continuity if you choose me and my team. The previous government has laid the foundations and we can now continue to work and build on these foundations. I expect excellent results and prosperity for Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18545	Thank you, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Since there are no more entries for the word, I'm closing the search. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search on the only item of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 270(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule on 29 June 2017 with a start at 18 hours and 25 minutes, as a day for voting on the Government Programme, the election of presidents and members of the Government. It's in a few minutes, please stay in the O.R. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to take their seats and continue our work. Before we move to decision-making, we need to determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to all insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 175 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for deciding. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on a candidate for Prime Minister, a government programme and candidates for members of the Government, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 270(2), The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly on the Government Programme and the election of the Prime Minister and members of the Government shall decide in general by a secret vote unless it decides to vote publicly. If the National Assembly decides to vote publicly, it shall be voted by a roll call. I propose that the National Assembly on the Government Programme, the election of the president and the members of the government vote publicly - by the pronunciation of the MPs. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 159 against – 17, abstention – one, 30 MPs did not vote. I find that the Assembly has decided to vote publicly on the Government Programme, the election of presidents and members of the government - by calling. Since the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on the Government Programme, the election of the Prime Minister and members of the Government – by a call, I remind you that the National Assembly is also voting on the Government Programme, the election of the president and members of the Government, and by the majority of the votes of all MPs. I also remind you that it's Article 131. The Rules of Procedure shall be governed by the procedure of public voting - by a call, and, in accordance with that provision, the Secretary-General shall call on the MPs in the alphabetical order, the MP who approaches the vote pronounces: 'for', 'against' or 'abstained', the Secretary-General of the National Assembly shall write down a statement of the MP or his absence with his name and last name by the list. That's the question. I'm putting on a vote by the Government Programme and a proposal for the president and members of the government, as a whole. That's how I open the vote. I ask the Secretary-General of the National Assembly to make the call of the MPs in the alphabetical order of the last name and record their statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18547	Aleksić Miroslav – v Arsić Veroljub – za Atlagić prof. dr Marko – za Babić Vlado – za Bajatović Dusan – za Barišić Dragan – za Bauer dr Ivan – za Bačevac dr Muamer – for Belačić Aleksandr – absent Bečić Mr Igor – for Bijan Milen – for Bjažić Branislav – for Božinović Zarko – for Bogdanović Goran – against Božović Božović Prof. Dr. Žnežan – for Christmas Nenad – absent Brez Josip – for Bulatović Slavić – for Božić Dubravko – for Veljković Jelisavjet – for Vešović Dragan – for Božan Borović – against Boštov Žalnović – against Boštavno Soljužaž – for Boš – for Boš – for Buković Slavić Slavić Slavić – for Veljković Dragan – for Veljković Dragan – for Veljković – for Veljković Delisav – for Velović Drag – for Veš – for Veš – for Vešov Drag – for Vš – against Vštjan Drag – against Bož – against Boštovnović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-06-29-0.u18548	Thank you. Since we've held a vote by calling the MPs, I'm closing the vote. It takes five minutes for the departments to compare the results of the vote and please be there in the O.R., in five minutes I will announce the results of the vote. [[After a break.]] Dear MPs, allow me to announce the results of the vote. Of the 212 MPs who joined the vote: 157 MPs voted for the proposal, 55 MPs voted against the proposal, there were no abstentions, 38 MPs were absent and there were none who wanted to vote. Since the government's programme and the proposal for president and members of the government and the proposal for president and members of the government were voted by 157 MPs, representing most of the total number of MPs, I find that the National Assembly adopted the Government programme and elected the Government in the proposed composition. Allow me to congratulate the President, Vice-Presidents and Government ministers on your behalf and on your behalf. National MP Nemanja Sarovic pointed to a violation of article 88 at a session on 28 June 2017 at 10 o'clock and 30 minutes. Rules of Procedure. Please decide if I hurt the Rules of Procedure. No one joined the vote. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Marinika Tepic, 28 June 2017 at 16 o'clock and one minute, pointed to the violation of Article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm asking you to decide that. I conclude the vote: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 161 MPs. I find he's not a injured member. National MP Srdjan Nogo at a session on 28 June 2017 at 17 hours and 28 minutes pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—16, against—there is no one. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Srdjan Nogo pointed to the violation of Articles 27, 107 and 109 at a session on 28 June 2017 at 19 hours and 35 minutes. Rules of Procedure, please decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote: for – 19, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 29 June 2017 at 12 hours and 42 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 106. Rules of Procedure. Please decide whether or not the said Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote: 155 MPs did not vote for – 17 against – two, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. I'm setting a break from an hour to an oath to begin at 20.00 hours. Please come and attend the solemn oath.
