ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19101	I would like to thank the chairman, ministers, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, immediately at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to say that I support the proposed amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land, and since the authorised representative of our parliamentary group, Vlad Orlic, yesterday and stressed, we show these changes that we are taking care of two essential things. So the first is to preserve national interests, and the second is to fulfil the international obligations that we have taken as a state, and here we come to that long-standing difference between us and those who sit mostly across from me, and today they are not in the O.R., and that main difference is responsibility. The responsibility is that thread that separates us. Those of us who approach this, but also all other topics, and all of them who, absolutely, adapt everything to daily politics. Well, both Europeans and unspeakable advocates of European integration, as Europe had no alternative, etc., etc., and when circumstances change, when they become opposition, they are no longer interested in the EU, nor in European integration, nor in the European way of Serbia, they are no longer interested. By yesterday the main mantra, the main phrase was Europe has no alternative. Today they obviously gave up on it, today they became Eurosceptics, so we've heard a lot of things in the debate, during yesterday, but let's see what the facts are about this bill. Let's see what it is that they resented us and whether those grudges make any sense at all. The protection of national interests, which I mentioned earlier, will now allow the proposed amendments to the laws for which we must immediately stress that they are absolutely in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, given that this was also yesterday one of the objections. So we will repeat that a 10-year period has been foreseen since the adoption of the law in which the natural persons who are EU citizens must have a residence, i.e. a residence in Serbia, so that they can buy agricultural land at all, I will stress in private property. Once again, I would like to point out that the agricultural land in the state property is not the subject of this debate, but only agricultural land in private property. So, a foreigner who would like to buy land in Serbia must process it for at least three years and have an active registered agricultural holding for 10 years, and this has been stressed several times yesterday in the debate. Also, it must have tools, equipment, machines for processing, etc., and there is a limit that it will be able to buy up to two hectares of land. I would also point out that the subject of purchase cannot be agricultural land that is in accordance with specific laws and plans defined as building land, as well as protected natural well-being, or parcels near military complexes. What is also envisioned by this proposal is that the Republic of Serbia has the right to prevent the purchase of land approved by the government on a proposal from the Commission. In addition, a procedure which detailedly discusses the procedure, the Commission's education procedure, as well as the timetables, conditions and procedures for the right to prevent buying. So, as you can see, all of this is prescribed, very clearly prescribed and very tax-based in this proposal. It was just necessary to read this law, but unfortunately, some MPs obviously were either more lazy to read the bill or they didn't care at all, but they came here yesterday with a pre-prepared story, with a pre-prepared text that doesn't have much to do with reality, they don't care what it says in the law, but they're interested in having a few phrases, flossules and stuff go through here. And that resulted in yesterday listening to all kinds of crap from some MPs here, I repeat, sitting mostly across from me, and one is just laughing. I invite you, for all the reasons I have stated, to support the proposed amendments to the law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19102	The word is "Verica Radet." Let Dubravka Filipovski be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19103	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on September 1st, a day that has been spoken of for months as the day when the sale of Serbia's most fertile countries to foreigners will begin. The bill that has been discussed for two days is actually legalizing it and there is no question that by this bill, what Ana Brnabic would say, the law adopted by the government, which is obvious that you are going to change something in this proposal. It is true that for months it has been said and that the public has become quite mixed and that people are not satisfied that they will continue, not start selling our agricultural country to foreigners, I say, continue, because at the time of the previous authorities, it was also current when various Todorovi bought the country through Serbia, but now they will be able to do so by everyone else. You here, here in this bill are only talking about some restrictions for foreigners from EU countries, but you don't say what will happen to some who are not in the EU, in which way the country will buy or rent, let's say, Arab firms, and on one particular case, I'll say something later, to remind you. So this bill is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Yesterday, the minister mentioned the Law on Property Relations as a roof law when it comes to the sale of agricultural land, but the minister either did not read the whole law, or he did not understand something. Because it is in this law, and in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is unequivocal that natural wealth cannot be sold to foreigners. Land is a natural treasure. All the wealth, the mine, is in the land, in the land. Water sources are in the country. So, will something be, what is on the surface, agricultural or construction depends on some services, on some local or republican levels, where they will say – here is the interest to be built, this will remain agricultural, etc., but, essentially, when it comes to land, it does not change and under any conditions cannot be sold to foreigners. Foreigners can be leased for a certain period of time, for a maximum of 30 years under the Law of Property Relations. Foreigners can only be owners of apartments or houses in Serbia, and can be concessionaries and take Banjska spas for hire, under certain conditions. Everything else is absolutely forbidden and everything else is the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You resorted to the amendments to this law, precisely because, as you said yesterday, since there's a lot of talk about it, and then, in a way, the public will be satisfied, the majority of the congregation will be three days while this lasts to convince the public that, in fact, now, after this law, no foreigners will be able to buy land. We claim that they will and that this bill only legalizes them. It'll go the way it goes. Foreigners will continue to buy land. Serbia will continue to be poorer. Our peasants will be even more endangered. You, Minister, said yesterday that, here I quote you, driving people out of the SAA, well, we tell you that it's not crazy, and you say – because it's not Serbia's interest. And that's what Serbia's interest is. Isn't Serbia's interest in getting out of the SAA first because we're losing huge amounts of money, because we import fruit and vegetables from EU countries without customs and thus endanger the Serbian peasant? Isn't what this law provides also the reason to say - we will no longer be signatories to this agreement? If you ever thought there was no reason to leave the SAA, you should have thought it should be, say, in 2015, when the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo became part of the SAA. Well, according to the SAA, you with the work of Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija are, in fact, legally trafficked as with another state. But what happened to your SAA when you signed the Brussels Agreements? Then yesterday, here, someone said the assembly majority advocated that Kosovo is above all else and that they would not have thought to enter the EU if the conditions for it were recognition of Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija, unfortunately, is under Boris Tadic's command until today's actual recognition, based on everything that has been done since Borko Stefanovic, Vuk Jeremic. It has, unfortunately, all the characteristics of the state. You recognize it and confirm it by signing the Brussels Agreements. The country's own president says, in this call for some kind of dialogue, he'll probably be running it himself, says there's only 1% chance that we can preserve Kosovo and Metohija. Then why all your stories, if they're all in the 1%? So you're distracting the people and you're trying to get these laws out of it somehow. You will by this law, you yourself said, extend by 10 years, in some parts, buying a foreign country, that foreigners are buying a country in Serbia. What does that mean? Here, it came September, and they said in 2008 – until September 2017. Here, come and what do we do now? That's how it's gonna go with yours. You say: physical faces can't, legal faces can. You've made some combinations here under what conditions. Where's your instrument? Where is your guarantee that even natural persons will not become owners of the Serbian country? Where? You say he must have a firm. Is it his problem to start a business in Serbia? It's done, with a certain fee, in two hours. And he's officially got a company, and he's the stranger who does it. We have interesting information for Al Rawafed. It's an Arab company that, if you don't know, has been leased for 30 years we have interesting information for the company "Al Rawafed". It is an Arab company, which, if you don't know, has been leased for 30 years, 3,500 hectares of agricultural land from the military facility "Morovic". Before they took it, this institution had received 223 euros per hectare per year, and before Al Rawafed entered this company and thus Morovic was damaged annually by 1,600 000 euros, not counting on the fact that this company had been co-owned with 80% of the property on the property, co-owned by Serbia by 20%. It was this company I was talking about that was registered a few days before they entered this land rental business in Morovic. What's the next problem? The problem was that the ministry came up with the fact that they were to pay 15% in advance of the profits due to the use of the land and the Ministry of Defence came out with a statement that they were paying it neatly, but Minister Djordjevic, when he was a military minister, days before it stopped being decidently and precisely that they did not pay a single dollar in the name of what they used 3,500 hectares of Morovic and another 7,000 hectares in some other parts of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina. Unfortunately, Krasic says "it's time" and he's right. We'll talk about details, more details, mostly, to conclude, this law is just a bill when it's law, only legalizing land purchases, agricultural land from broken strangers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19104	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19105	Dear President, honourable MPs, I'd like to say a few things about the previous discussion. First, the reason why it goes with the amendments to the Agricultural Land Act is to fix things that are bad for the different reasons set out in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We are correcting this by trying to through these amendments to the law to determine specific conditions under which natural persons who are citizens of the European Union can acquire the right of property and establish clear criteria for it. I want to underline it one more time. We're fixing those things that at that point predicted the liberalisation of total agricultural land. Secondly, this country is a responsible state and must respect its commitments and cannot change its views from day to day, because it will look like a "banana state", then no longer resembles a serious state that has its own path. The Republic of Serbia has defined itself as the path to European integration, and that is beyond doubt. We meet our international obligations. On the other hand, I'd like to tell you one thing about the Law on Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations, which you were talking about. Article 82 provides for this possibility and is fully in line with it, and it is related to the principle of reciprocity. The story about Al Ravapheda, I mentioned yesterday, I know that you were in the O.R. all the time and I think you heard me, I am absolutely aware of your rhetorical abilities and the desire to throw one thing out again, but as far as Al Ravapheda is concerned, with the Al Ravafed Agricultural Land Office has 4,400 ha contract, 250 euros is the average price. So 20% is higher than the average price she's issued elsewhere. It pays in advance, all obligations are settled and the contract relating to the irrigation and raising system of logistics centres is completed, 70% is completed, and the rest will be completed by March 2018, as foreseen by the contract. In the end, it talks about Kosovo and about 1% of the chance and the opening of dialogue, I know how important the story about Kosovo is, and while there is a change of chance we will fight to keep it in Serbia and when some may think there is no more chance we will fight and then fight because it is our obligation as people living in Serbia and who love their country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19106	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19107	Let's start with this at the end. As for the position of the SRS, for the survival of Kosovo and Metohija in the Republic of Serbia, there is a chance. We stand for it not in the way you do, not by entering the EU, but by leaving the EU negotiations and seeking protection from the Russian Federation which has been much more ready than our authorities since 2000 to preserve Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. You're talking about irrigation, this obligation of this Arab firm. The obligation was to end this in 2015 by contract, not by the end of 2018. You spoke here yesterday, and you often mention it in public when you show up, it's like some comfort to the peasants, that it's a cure for dry irrigation. Look out, motherfucker, so sure it is, but what did you do to make that irrigation available to our peasants? You didn't do anything. Yesterday you say we live in a time when an hour an hour can predict what time will be like in the next hour. Great, that's true, but then why don't you have anti-urban missiles to break city clouds than you do in July and August, not to you but to all of us, the city destroys agricultural crops? You're saying if we got out of the SAA, we'd be a banana state. Unfortunately, the SAA is introducing us into the system to be a banana state. You didn't say leaving the SAA, you said you were responsible, so you continued the continuity of the previous ones. Not because you're responsible, but because you have exactly the same program as those before and your struggle is only about who will take the chair of the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19108	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19109	I thank the president. Dear Ministers, it is no doubt that we are the only country that has come into this situation and brought ourselves into this position before joining the EU. Article 63 of Article 2 on the SAA provides that Serbia, over a period of four years from the entry into force of this Agreement, gradually aligns its legislation relating to the acquisition of property over real estate in Serbia in order to ensure that EU citizens receive the same treatment as our citizens. Today and yesterday in the debate, we are trying to remove that mistake. The most important provision of this law is that there is no purchase of land for foreigners until 2027, that this law will enter into force just as it should, that there is a general agreement on the preservation of national interests, as well as an agreement with Brussels on the postponement of the entry into force of the SAA provisions. But what is most important for this law is how to prevent abuses when trying to buy land. Foreigners bought the country through companies registered in Serbia. The purchase of local companies that previously privatised the combined into the hands of foreigners has brought more than 20,000 Serb orans to date. Thus, the owners of the Hungarian CBA's Agrokora, the Irish company Baltik Investmens, came to an oranic in Serbia. The law is very clear on the ban on buying land for foreigners, but my question for you, Mr. Minister, is how do we prevent the purchase of land of citizens of countries in the region, since it is known that the citizens of Montenegro are buying land in Zlatibor, that Albanians are buying land in southern Serbia? Then, I would ask you to explain to us Article 72 of Section 3 by which someone who inherited the land and is a citizen of the Serbian state and for the first time registered the land in his name, must, under this provision of the law, wait 10 years to buy the land. There is no lease on agricultural land without the consent of local self-government and that is fine, but what to do with our citizens who have registered land, and they are denied the possibility of buying agricultural land in the neighbouring Catastrian municipality if the municipality does not belong to the only local self-government where these citizens are constantly populated. We've got two more problems here. As a consequence, we have a slowdown in the process of introducing the average size of family agricultural holdings with all the consequences of their competitiveness. Another problem, as a consequence, we have a ban on buying land in traditional weekend areas because potential customers never live in those areas where such land is located. This will increase the surface area under abandoned multi-year plantings in these areas, given that the predominantly heirs offer this land for sale. The other questions I have for you are not about this law, but they are about agriculture at all. The first problem that has been present for a long time is the health insurance of farmers in Serbia. Another problem for which the citizens of Batocina and the environment have asked me to ask you – when will the amendments and additions of the Law on Sanitary Control be made, since in the villages of Serbia drinking water from the well and there is no sanitary supervision for it? It's a huge problem and it needs to be solved. You will agree with me that the different conditions of farming are in Leskovac, Sjenica, Subotics and Arangelovac. That is why we need a reonization of agricultural production where after the countries will be able to especially stimulate those productions that in the given area can give the best income. I think we still have a big problem with land hectares that aren't used. My data is that somewhere over 400,000, and that's a problem that I believe you're aware of as a ministry that needs to be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19110	The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19111	I thank the esteemed president. At first, I would like to congratulate all the professors and assistants of the University of Belgrade for re-ranking the 200-300 best universities in the world. I particularly congratulate my colleague from the Department of Food Technology of the Faculty of Agriculture in Belgrade on ranking among the first 20 higher education institutions in the field of food technology in the world. Unfortunately, the profession and science belittles the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Agriculture, because over 6,000 graduated agronomists and veterinarians, including hundreds of masters or masters and dozens of doctors, are unemployed, and they have no rights in relation to the case of the German "Tenis" even for the lease of state agricultural land. In this regard, we forget that the 21st century - the age of the knowledge economy - is the least qualified agricultural advisory service in Serbia. The draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act was addressed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 14 August 2017 to consider and adopt the urgent procedure, but it is contrary to the documents adopted in this Assembly, firstly, the Resolution of the National Assembly on Legislative Policy, adopted by the Assembly on 25 June 2013, secondly, the Strategy for Regulatory Reform and the improvement of the Public Policy Management System for the period 2016-2020, with the accompanying Action Plan adopted by the Serbian Government at its 192nd session on 23 January 2016 and finally, the position of Article 155(4). The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which is prescribed that, in this case, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, shall, I quote, submit a report, or an opinion by rule not less than five days from the date of the start of the meeting of the National Assembly, at which the draft law is to be considered. None of the positions contained in these three documents adopted by this legislative body are respected prior to the examination of this draft law. I thank the people's MPs, Arapad Fremond and Prof. Dr. Sandi Raskovic Ivić, for a part of the data extracted from my publication "Agricultural Land in the Republic of Serbia", published in 2015 in the International Year of Land. I provided the presentation of this publication to all the members of the Committee on Agriculture, and the link that they can download the electronic version of the entire publication. Serbia is no longer rich in agricultural land, as for the first time in 2012, Serbia has less than half of its territory under agricultural land. I mean the territory of central Serbia and Vojvodina. Besides, below the minimum... The security of 20 acres per capita, we have eight of the 25 regions in this area, i.e. 47 of 166 municipalities and cities in whose territory there is agricultural land. The bottom line is the next one. It's just the first mistake, and everything else is a logical clue to that first mistake. Unfortunately, quickly and at the expense of national interests, paraphrasing, then ratification, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, is not the only error of previous and current regimes. Whenever this Assembly and regimes decided on behalf of the people without a previous referendum of Serbian citizens, all regimes made and made catastrophic national mistakes...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19112	Time, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19113	I've got four minutes and something.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19114	Three and 51, but come on, finish the thought, it's no problem at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19115	So, in addition to the SAA, so it is with the anti-constitutional Brussels agreement, whose anagram and literally meant - it took the Serbs Serbian. That's how it's gonna be when this or some other regime decides to join NATO.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19116	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19117	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 106 and Article 107. Rules of Procedure. Article 106 says the speaker should stick to the agenda. The item of the agenda is not agriculture in total, but the Act on Agricultural Land, i.e. amendments concerning the SAA. That's number one. Number two, article 107, says the dignity of the National Assembly must be respected. With all due respect to his colleagues, I must say he has deceived you. He said he suggested something to the Agriculture Committee. Here, the board members are here, the minister was on that committee, and his colleague, Shevarlic, didn't show up at all on the board. Not that he didn't suggest anything, but he didn't show up at all. It was too early to come at eight o'clock in the morning. He gets up a little later, it's retirement, I understand that, but he roughly deceived the National Assembly by saying that he suggested something on the Committee when he didn't show up at all. Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: What is this? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19118	Please don't throw it away. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? You don't want to. Thank you. Miladin Ševarlic: Replica. You do not have a replica on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you do not have the right to the Rules of Procedure. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19119	Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this law has the intensities to find a measure of interest in preserving agricultural land and, on the other hand, the possibility of being in one normal traffic. As far as it's going to work, time will show, but it certainly needs to be given a chance. What's the focus of my attention is this. There's no serious future for one community without a serious demographic policy. True, we have some advice and principled policy on demographic orientation and on resolving demographic issues. However, the fact is that many laws do not have enough sensitivity for this burning issue. History, or the experience of human civilization, has shown that decadent, demographic decadentness of a single space begins at high altitudes, or from a village of high altitudes, then descends to lower areas, villages, so the villages have previously disappeared, but it has also been proven that where villages disappear the following cities. And that's something that's inevitability and legality that if we don't take lightly and we don't seriously oppose it, I'm afraid there won't be room for that later. My thinking and part of the Bosniak Democratic Community programme are heading towards the necessity to give the village tax reliefs, but not cosmetic, but serious tax reliefs that would actually mean this political quack that would certainly make the assumption of turning the point of migration towards the village. In this respect, our proposal is that up to 600 metres above sea level are given tax reliefs up to 40%, not only for agricultural category projects, but for any kind of business activity, including property and all other taxes, and for villages above 600 metres above sea level, it is absolutely tax-free, however radical it sounds, it is necessary to make such a turn, such a point, such a cut is necessary because only such procedures can motivate businessmen, investors to invest in such areas. I know that from such a pleasant environment in this hall and in this building of the National Assembly it is not easy to feel sorry for citizens in the area of the cave, Golia, Komaran, Zlatar and other areas where winter is, and generally climate conditions, as well as infrastructure so harsh that people living there should be assigned medals for heroism with their very survival. But these are necessary and necessary measures. I call on the MPs, knowing that here with my two votes and two MPs, I can't impose any of this, I don't have that ambition either, but I am here because I believe that there is awareness in this National Assembly amongst the MPs, regardless of the parties, whether they are ruling or not, but for issues of this importance, to be put first. This is what I intend and ultimately, before history, you have the opportunity to have one Muslim, one Bosniak, one mufti talking about these issues honestly, from the heart, because this is not just about Bosniaks or Serbs, but about all of us, and it is necessary to treat him seriously and to give him the courage to do this question, which is not daily politically, which can't be solved so quickly, but to look ourselves in the eye and join us on that path. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19120	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Nenad Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19121	Thank you. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed in 2008. We are now in 2017. So we've known for nine years what our obligations are under that agreement, and they're about selling the country to foreign citizens. The first question for the minister – which is why now that the deadline is due in a few days, points out in fact that the ban on selling to natural persons, I have to stress it, because legal persons can buy, and so far they've bought the land and rented it, and I can do it in the future, and I'm going to talk about it later, why is the session of the Assembly now scheduled for an emergency procedure, a law without public debate, and we are discussing it? It is very interesting that the session is scheduled just on the day that there are several major sports events, when we have an EU envoy coming. All I have the impression is that it was purposely done so that this very important topic would be placed in the seal, and all for the sake of sports successes and other events that were marked yesterday. This for public debate is, I say, particularly important, because agricultural land is probably the most valuable resource the state of Serbia has. We're not something rich in fossil fuels, we don't have any big ore of wealth, we're not usually a big country, we've fought more times in the last 150 years, so we've been knocked down to the ground, so we're not something rich, and that agricultural land is the biggest resource we have. In addition to being the biggest resource, it is also strategically important for food. So I would ask the minister to explain - which is why by emergency procedure and why there was no public debate, is there any argument for that? Since we've known for nine years what our obligations are when it comes to the SAA and where we're from now suddenly, as reportedly, we want to protect our country from selling. I'll explain now that we're not really protecting anything by this law. First, this amendment of the law is limited only by foreign citizens, so the individuals who want to buy the land and here are set up certain conditions that seem really impossible to me. I don't know if he's gonna show up in the next 10 years, since he's got to be registered for 10 years in that local self-government where he wants to buy his land, that, I don't know, he's been processing for three years, that he's got a registered agricultural land, that he's got a mechanization, etc., etc., and with all that, he can only buy two acres. It seems to me that these are conditions that seem strict, where they would, as it were supposed to, deter the physical faces from buying land. However, natural persons are not even interested in buying land here, except for some perhaps enthusiasts who may like it in Serbia, so they might like to come, have something, etc., but these are not people who are likely to be more serious about agriculture. Farmers in the EU, e.g. Surely they have much better conditions to deal with in their countries of origin than Serbia can offer them here, because when they see our farmers living and in what conditions they work and how much of the state really cares about helping them, I have no doubt that they will come after them to buy our country. This law looks more like a marketing move to me, because in all the announcements on television, here are the last days, it's only about that buy-out restrictions on foreign citizens, which is essentially not the subject that matters to us at all, because these foreign citizens who are going to buy the country and they don't. So we didn't protect anything by that. Agricultural land is so far, and future land can buy legal persons, both domestic and foreign. The owners of these legal entities can also be foreigners, and citizens of Serbia, so there are no restrictions for them. Is it good that owners of companies that are foreign citizens or foreign companies that buy some perhaps domestic companies that will be subject to future privatisations, bankruptcys, etc., which have agricultural land owned? Not to me, because agricultural land is a strategic resource that should not be managed by foreigners. Just like they shouldn't run the water, etc. Nor should they rule the land, nor should they possess it, nor should they be able to rent it to anyone, nor should they be able to sell it. What's particularly strange is that we've now signed the SAA and now we're suffocating ourselves as something in the EU, so now we're introducing some restrictions. Have you seen any of their reactions to this? No, I don't. They know their citizens won't come here to buy, they don't get excited about it at all. It is important to them that legal persons can come here and that legal persons can participate freely in the transport and rental of agricultural land, and we did not protect ourselves at all. Secondly, a number of wrong things have been said in the tide so far regarding our Constitution, concerning the property of foreigners in Serbia. First, foreigners can have property in Serbia and the Constitution does not defend it, but it leaves us, the Assembly, at any rate, to limit it by some law. The same goes for land. In Article 88. The constitution says that the land is free, it can be the subject of trade, and that we can again, if we consider it necessary to limit it by some law. This law that's on the agenda today, which you'll probably vote on, because you're the voting machine that votes on the bell, which isn't even here, I get the impression that that bell stands on Andric's crown, so that from there your boss is pressing that bell, you'll vote and allow that most valuable resource we have to come into possession of anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19122	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19123	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of the People, I would like just a few words and to refer to the last few speakers. So I wouldn't waste too much of your time. As for the story of irrigation and anti-urban systems, yesterday I talked about it, and after 30 years we have 11 new systems. Nine have already begun construction in the space of Vojvodina, one in the municipality of Bogatic and the town of Šapca should be started in the next 10 days. So much for us not doing anything about it. As far as the reionisation mentioned by fellow Filipovski, the Ministry of Agriculture has called for scientific studies involving geodetics, our experts dealing with agricultural production, climatics, all those needed to clearly determine the premises, the conditions in these areas, so that we can adapt our agricultural production as easily as possible. You'll agree that this is a driving thing that has to form the whole thing right on scientific grounds, not to set things up as someone who's left, right, or what I think. I think the most important thing is that science and profession say about it. As for the presentation of MP Zukorlic, I absolutely agree in the part of the rural areas at higher altitudes. In the 2018 budget, we will have a special type of support for those agricultural productions that are achieved at higher altitudes. It's possible at this point. The changes in tax policy are to be discussed, but one of the intensities that exist in the common European agricultural policy and what we are seeking in this part is to train areas that are at higher altitudes. Because of this handicap of inaccessibility, bad infrastructure or something like that, that this way with support financial compensation is for these negative effects, so that people can function and what's most important is that they stay there, because they say -- whose sheep are, that's the hill. It is very important that production remains, that the population remains, that people remain there, that it can exist, because it is the only way to defend national interests. I'm very grateful for that, despite my gratitude for supporting these amendments to the law. As for your communication, or your deadline exposure, we're doing this within the time limit. I have to say once again that this is how we try to correct those things that are provided for different reasons by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, if we hadn't done it now, we wouldn't have had more space. If we had done it a year earlier, I guarantee you that they would have asked me here, why do you run before the ore and you correct before the time, that is to say, some rules of the game. Now that we have established them within the time limit, some ask me, "What are you doing?" We do it, unlike some others who haven't done it. There's one thing that's, like, quite interesting, I believe that you wanted to be funny about our session planning, when it's going to be held, and it's about amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act, about the Star, Partizan. I didn't mean myself personally, but to suggest, in that context, I thought. I'm not that psychic, I'm not even a little bit right to tell you. These things have nothing to do with each other. So, to tie it up, I know it's very common in our minds, that there's always some conspiracy theory. There is no conspiracy theory here, just a desire to protect the agricultural land owned by the Republic of Serbia, and to those who won last night I congratulate them on it and I think it's good for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19124	Thank you, Minister. (Nenad Christmas: Replica.) Mr. Christmas, you have no right to a replica. The minister answered the questions. He didn't answer me why there wasn't a public debate. Don't throw it away, please. Easy, don't be nervous. You have no basis for replication. Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic. Give me your word. Please don't throw it away, you'll get a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19125	I thank the chairman. As the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group stressed yesterday, the SPS parliamentary group said we would support the amendments and additions to the legislation we are discussing today. Unlike those who show great dissatisfaction over this law, we need to point out some facts and give a legal framework to everything we discuss, exchange opinions and look for the best solutions. Of course, I hope that these best solutions will be defined and, possibly, by accepting certain amendments, and the SPS parliamentary group has made its contribution in this regard by proposing amendments that we consider to be able to make a significant contribution to the proposed law and amendments to the Agricultural Land Act. It should come from something that is difficult for anyone in this House to question, which is the fact that we have one obligation arising from the SAA, under the Association Agreement. Legally there are controversy whether or not this Agreement is a binding fact, but there is a political thing which, of course, I as a lawyer have my own position in that direction and I believe that as a kind of contract, it has a binding fact. However, giving up on the SAA means giving up on the EU, means giving up everything that this government is, and even the previous government, has done to bring the EU closer and finally become a full member of the EU. Is that the goal? Of course it's not anyone who has a little awareness of this proposed text of the law will surely support this attitude. Second, in Article 85. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia states that foreign and natural persons can acquire property rights over real estates, agricultural land is immobility, in accordance with law and international contracts, the SAA is nothing more than an international contract. The international contract has defined the appropriate obligations. Is he good? No, I'm sure it's not. In 2008, when the contract was concluded, it was concluded by other political factors, it wasn't the SPS, it wasn't even the SNS, because it couldn't be, physically it couldn't be, objectively it couldn't be. Thus, it is in no political sense the presence of political triumphalism. We are not serious about not signing this Agreement, and certainly we would not sign it because it is bad, but those who signed it, in any case, today should not criticise the proposed text of the law by criticising the proposed text because instead of a good negotiation they have approached, probably by service, something that we certainly see today is not in the interest of the Serbian state and is not in the interest of the Serbian citizens. I repeat, we are not in any way inclined to take a load or say now triumphist – no, it is not ours. We have an inherited obligation, that inherited obligation implies that we must fulfill it, and we are doing it today. Secondly, it is also a fact that will not be doubted, and that is that there is no sound of discrimination here when it comes to states and citizens of other countries. Why isn't there? Because we in the provisions of the Law on Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations, as some roof law, to remind myself, all other laws are lex specialis in relation to the Law on Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations, we have defined questions about the possibility of obtaining property on immovable property. I speak – on immovable property, I am clearly distanced from agricultural land, although agricultural land is by its legal nature and character immovable property, but Serbia has rightly given the clause of the most privileged nations when they are able to acquire property rights over real estates in Serbia. It's already back nine, ten years present. Who are these most privileged nations? It's the United States, it's the UK, it's the Netherlands and it's Japan. So where's the discrimination against what we're doing today? Where's the difference? Secondly, by exchanging notes between Serbia and other countries, these other countries also acquired the right to become owners of immovable property in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. To remind who they are – Portugal, France, the Czech Republic, Greece, Norway. Are these all EU countries? They did. Again, then what's the difference, does it make any difference? This already exists, this is already up-to-date. Furthermore, what we do not change is we just want to fulfil the obligations that others have imposed on us, and being imposed on us does not mean that we are happy about it, but what we have to do will be done as a responsible government and responsible state, according to all the relevant factors that we have to cooperate with to join the EU, whether someone likes it or not. What this law really defines in a good way is restrictions. Today none of the debaters have touched one fact that is purely legal, which is that all these conditions, which must be met, are set in cumulation. What does that mean? This means that none of these conditions can be independent and give the possibility or basis for the acquisition of property rights, but all the conditions are foreseen so that literally all of them must be met in order to have legal consequences, and the legal consequence is to acquire the right of a foreign citizen's property in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Is there a large number of those who will meet these conditions? It won't, it doesn't exist. Is there an interest? This is another question, which in no way should be answered by this Assembly, because the law merely set a legal framework for those rights to be realized. What is also important, this law implies that the acquisition of property rights from the day of law-making can be obtained under these conditions. So, in the future, profuturo, not backwards. This means that these conditions, defined as defined, will only be met if a large period of time passes. So, pretty long timelines. But, Minister, what we want, especially me as a speaker and as a member of the SPS, I want to sincerely contribute to improving this law by quality and we want to suggest to you well-meaningly, and that is to accept our amendments that go in two directions. One direction is to further protect Serbia's interest, the interest of Serbian citizens and Serbia's territory. This implies preventing the purchase of land in the border area. What does that mean? We already have legislation that implies that domestic citizens cannot catch up or buy real estates in construction that involve location in border areas, which means they are located along the border with foreign countries, neighbouring countries. If so, and so because the law has prescribed that distance for ten kilometers, then the same rule should apply to foreign citizens. What does that mean? This means that it cannot acquire property on catastrian plots that are within 10 kilometers of the border. Otherwise, we come to one danger, the danger of injury and territorial integrity, and even of jeopardizing some of the other interests of the state, given that by assembling land that can be in traffic, it is not only that Corps in the area that is allowed to acquire property rights on two hectares, but significantly more. We are thus automatically opening the door to the possibility that someone in Montenegro, Romania, Bulgaria, etc., predicates to this land as our own and thus brings the whole country into a more serious danger. I hope that you will accept this amendment, since it is not the only one, there are similar ones, I think that Parliamentarian Marijan Risticevic also pointed out a similar amendment to the SPS parliamentary group. The second direction of thinking in terms of improving the quality of this law through amendments is the formation of a fund, a fund in which appropriate funds will be pooled under the right to prevent purchase. Why? Because it is a good solution that you predicted that the Serbian state has the right to an obstacle to purchase and that is not disputed. But this land that is acquired under the right of an obstacle to purchase should be purposely defined, and we in the SPS parliamentary group think that the best solution would be to allow that land to be obtained by those who need it most. These are young couples, young agricultural producers, those who want to get a basic source of existence with the right to human prosperity and a proper standard. We think it's both from a humanistic point of view and from a social aspect, where we're going to solve a lot of other issues, and how significant. I sincerely ask you to take this amendment seriously, because it certainly contributes to the resolution of certain issues that should be resolved as soon as possible, and I doubt that anyone in this Assembly is against resolving these issues that are primarily of social character. At the very end, I want to point out another fact that also affirms what is related to the provisions of this law. At the very beginning, I said that there are different legal considerations about the obligation of constitutionality or unconstitution. I made my position clear on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. I allow that, of course, we lawyers face opinions when it comes to legal uprisings, but the foothold for this law is the Constitution. Again, the foothold for this law is also the obligation arising from the contract. The contract is in effect and the contract is called the SAA. As long as he's in effect, he produces a legal fact. When producing a legal fact, this means that obligations must be carried out as prescribed. In a situation where I choose between the SAA, the EU or isolation from the EU, the SPS parliamentary group does not have a dilemma, we will also support this law, we will support obligations, reconciliation and enforcement of the SAA obligation and in voting day we will vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19126	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19127	Thank you. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which came into force in 2013, following the ratification of all EU member states ratified here at the National Assembly in September 2008, is the reason for me to first express my personal, political and any other gratitude to the Socialist Party of Serbia's political decisions, the Social Democratic Party Rasim Ljajic, the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, the Liberal Democratic Party and the political decision of MP Tomislav Nikolic, who decided on September that the parliamentary club he chaired then should support the ratification of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. It's an important moment. I think it's time for us to grow up and stop talking in this assembly - we don't have anything to do with it, it's these yellow ones. You say as long as you want to have nothing to do with it, it's these yellow ones, but the idea these yellow ones wore has won, and we are now all together political performers of the EU's ideas. That's good news. What's wrong? I apologize to the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, exempt them. They'll never have any ideas with the yellows, at their own expense, but it doesn't matter. So these are important moments in the history of a country, important moments in the history of a single country's parliament and important moments for the future of a country. When there's enough grown-ups in this room, that's how we'll talk. As long as we think we can have a cobage attitude that we don't have anything to do with it and this SAA, it's actually all nonsense, but we have to, so far there won't be any reforms in society. You know what bad news is? That's bad news for the ruling coalition. Regardless of the support, you as the ruling coalition, neither for the sake of the SAA, nor for the sale of land, are you going to lose support, that's not why people say - we're not going to lose this ruling coalition. We're gonna lose the pace of taking the chance to really change society, if we stay this childish in the debate we are. Here's an illustration. People's MPs get the bill, the bill explains it, and the MPs read the argument. The government, by sending a proposal to amend and supplement the Agricultural Land Act, cited Article 97, paragraph 9, point 12, in its justification for constitutional basis, which speaks of ensuring sustainable development and measures to promote even development and improve the environment. In an interview with the Committee and here, the constitutional basis is Article 85. Well, make up your mind. If it is a constitutional basis, then, as adults, enter it into the bill that comes to the MP. If not, don't lie. It's that simple. So, a member of 85 serves as a pickpocket for -- we don't want to adopt this, but here. Don't do that. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement is good. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement has brought good and economics to Serbia and Serbia's status, in all those different jobs, not only when it comes to economies, trade, development and agriculture. It is an important document, and when negotiations between Serbia and the EU began, in November 2005, there were also adults who co-operated because it was good for Serbia. I worked with those who said yellow needed sanitary cordon. You can't have the idea that this Serbia will settle itself and grow up to be nothing, no matter how many yellow roses we are, we can just waste time together, as we do with this law. Next, playing with the constitutional basis, that's not working, Minister. It just doesn't work. No constitutional basis shall be sent to me which does not write Article 85, and the discussion of Article 85 as a constitutional basis. That's not what I'm saying. Serious people across the EU, whom we want to look like, don't do that. This is no offense, this is a suggestion. You will come in less than six months with imminent changes and additions to the laws concerning important chapters 11, 12 and more, whether or not we will end with a phase of whether or not it is a member of the 85th constitutional basis. What is the essence of this law, and why won't I vote if the amendments we have proposed are not accepted? The member you define the agricultural land in the state property is deleted from the rubrum, in order to introduce only land in private property. I don't mind. Legal faces are not the subject of this law at all. Legal faces can now have as much land as you want. How public and clear it is who are the legal persons, who lie, who threatens the villagers, who arrests, who doesn't give the country, who is the criminal, who isn't the subject of your law, at all. That's our job. We, MPs, should eat bread from it, to determine whether, according to the previous provisions of the Agricultural Land Act, which are not the subject of changes and additions, processes in Serbia take place at the expense of Serbia, and to the benefit of a small group of people who think that arrogance, haughtiness, can take place in Vojvodina and beyond Vojvodina. No, it's not a subject. Why am I asking him to remain a farmland in state property? Because by adding only the title that it was a private property, by erasing - state property, you left Chapter 2.2, which continues to state property transport, and no provision has been changed there. That's why I wrote that I'm asking to delete that member of the amendment and supplement, because it's a kind of legal delusion that with state land nothing's going to happen. It will, as it happens. They will, as we have said to your predecessors, Minister Snezani Boskovic Bogosavljevic, that the amendments and additions of the 2015 law are bad and harmful. That's what we got in the field. In the end, instead of all of these imaginative things, I'm not going to say, I always like to read texts that work for the waist, and I know that I recognize when someone came up with a policy, and when the profession did provisions through Article 72j, which you add to this law. You want to tell these provisions two things: either never anyone who is a member and a citizen of any EU country will be able to buy a country, or people with dual citizenship will be able to do so. It's a message from your provisions that I've reduced to those two. If that's what you want, then write it in the law. Let's grow up. That's the whole idea. As the constitutional basis and the 97th member is respected or disrespected, I will conclude with only one proposal to Minister Nedimovic. You mentioned "Tenis", we know that "Tenis" with its business plan comes up to 30 plus 10, or 15 plus 15 thousand hectares. Enter the Assembly and enter the nitrate directive. I will support the investment plans "Tenis" following the entry into force of the nitrate directive. It's so simple to really be European-oriented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19128	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19129	Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, I think that, at the very least, because of these proposals, I should express my view of them, for one simple reason, because the theme of the SAA is an important topic which in the last 10 years, or as much as 9, 10 and more, has raised so much attention and had the importance for Serbia's political life that I have to say things concerning this part that we are talking about today. Undoubtedly, Serbia has taken over its commitments. It's international agreements and there's no doubt about it. No one wants to delegate the Stabilisation and Association Agreement to these. That's one thing. The other thing is, about the liberalisation of agricultural land. We aim at this law to fix what was then at the moment when it was negotiated, for various reasons it failed. Is it because someone expected that it would already be 2010/11. in the year Serbia was an EU member or considered that, as with the case of Romania, full liberalisation would lead to new investments or something like that, I do not want to get into it, because after the battle it is easy to be a general. I'm just saying that at this point, what we're proposing is a way to fix and do it within the time limit foreseen by the SAA. As far as constitutional grounds are concerned. I think both provisions and article 97 have a role to play. I read it carefully after your discussion on the Committee yesterday, but I said yesterday in the debate, and that is the fact, the fact that we added it later, that it is also a member of 85th and he is carrying, a member of 97 talks about the sustainable development of Serbia. Yes, this thing is important for Serbia's sustainable development, because unless we bring it here, there is a risk to Serbia's sustainable development. You're aware of that. As far as renting agricultural land is concerned, no 15, 20, 50,000 hectares are in circulation at all at this time. At this point in circulation is an area of five thousand with the intensity that another project goes by and won't be nearly as close as you thought. As far as the nitrate directive is concerned, I'm ready to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19130	Thank you, Minister. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19131	Thank you. Minister, you're the government. Send me a document that says constitutional basis. The law is important, urgent, and everything else. It can't be written here in article 85, so you remember here afterwards. It doesn't matter, I understand how it happens. I've seen different ministers and it was easier for those I didn't support, I don't know how to tell you. The ones I support are much harder for them. Why am I telling you this? Because the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, whatever you comment on negotiating, is your right. It does not stand for real, not for 2005, and especially for 2006 when relations between the EU and Serbia were frozen because Serbia did not co-operate with The Hague. No one's ever negotiated anything with us. So whenever we really want to make a move, then you can count the number of members you want, you're the government, you're letting me read, but let's not do any more -- we wanted to, but here we are. Our good intentions, but, well, we didn't make it. That's why I can talk to you, I can't talk to all the ministers, because there are some who hear and some who can't hear, so that I don't spend on others who don't hear. It's Pradigma. We wanted to, but it didn't work. No, we wanted to. Tell me now I see the interpretation of article 85 we didn't put it on and it's all five. No directive, I'll sign you if necessary, and you know it's six members and two before it goes into publishing to anyone in Vojvodina, any country, because it's important to keep us from laying low or whatever, but healthy land, healthy water and healthy air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19132	Thanks for the discussion. The word has a folk MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19133	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will only briefly remind the citizens of all these contradictions they could hear yesterday and today, simply not to be confused about who defends what they are and who stands for, how agriculture was defended from 2000 to 2012, and how it really is done today. Here is very short, that agriculture then served, or the then government allowed the tycoons to introduce the monopoly into this business branch and make very easy and fast profits. At that time, about 300,000 ha was sold at a price of 50m euros, which, when calculated, comes out about 200 euros per hectare, and how little is that, I will now remind citizens today. It's the lowest price of renting a hectare for agricultural land on an annual basis. The rest of the land in Vojvodina was mostly usurped, someone was processing it, no lease was paid for it, and there is evidence of this because the application of the Agricultural Land Act found some 60,000 ha of such land, which is now being paid about 10m euros a year, and these are revenues that go into the budget and return through various incentives in agriculture. In 2015, we adopted the Law on Agricultural Land and then the problem of selling state land was solved where it was stated that state land can only buy a physical, domestic natural person, domestic farmer and no more than 20 ha. Those who today are the loudest and simply criticise today's amendments to the law, it is those who made catastrophic mistakes when they negotiated about this law and signed it in 2007 and 2008 and then failed to provide better conditions and this transitional period for which we now have to fight in this way. These changes that will prevent the full liberalisation of the transport of agricultural land are very important, because it will protect our farmer and protect our country. What these restrictive measures are going to be introduced is very important, because in addition to being a foreign citizen who intends to buy private agricultural land, it must be 10 years ago, to live, or to be resident in a local self-government in which he intends to buy that agricultural land, at least three years of farming, to process his machinery and his tools. Once you have met the conditions, it is again at risk of buying these maximum two ha of agricultural land, because the state has the right to an obstacle to purchase. So these are these three restrictive conditions that will not allow, if the state assesses, if so, that a stranger can buy, but very difficult conditions, that the state can prevent that purchase from happening. In addition, we still have conditions that need to be met, which is that this agricultural land cannot go into construction purposes, that it is not protected natural goods, that it is not near a military complex and it is very important. I hope that the Minister, or the Government, will adopt amendments that have been invested that will not be able to buy land that is near the border, 10 km away, and that is all that can pose a threat to our country and this very small private property agricultural property can pose a danger. I'm sorry that today, according to these changes, many with ridicule are simply commenting, because they say no one can meet these conditions. That was the goal, those conditions that would have been true if we hadn't brought such changes and the kind of status that Vojvodina had where the entire estates were sold for five or 10,000 euros with gardens and hectares of land, were just very tempting for foreigners living near our borders, to come and buy very easily. It was our goal to protect national interests and to make it impossible for foreigners to live on conditions as they were made easier without foreigners having any intention of living in our country. So, very restrictive conditions, and what we see is that there is a good intention is that the government has been investing in agriculture for years and this country is investing in agriculture, and we know that in 2017 there is an increased budget of around 3.5 billion, that four times the budget for investments in agriculture, that there are incentives to buy new equipment and return 50 to 65%, that there are incentives to stay young to 40 years in the country and with projects, with investments of 1.2 million euros where the state returns money worth 75% of that investment. So, numerous projects, irrigation projects, the state seriously invests in agriculture, and we see good intentions both of these governments and states to raise the agricultural branch to the highest level and therefore we will support these amendments of the law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19134	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19135	I will start this principle debate with one sentence, I think all those who voted in favour of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement, the SAA and that transitional agreement on 9 September 2008, are obliged to vote today for these amendments to the law. Those who were against the SAA are obliged to be against this law, so be it every one of them where it was 9.9.8. Yesterday we had a kind of wave manifestation of some forgeries. For example, Tomislav Nikolic published an alleged record, he did not publish a record to justify what someone once talked about, but on the basis of the newspaper text, Vojislav Seselj was denied phone communication with the defence team, and after a month I was banned from going to The Hague to visit him. When it's waved here, it means there's still some intention in continuity. Come on, close this window here, see what the landscapes here, see this leak. Let's start with the bill. Minister, you cannot write Article 63(2) in an explanation. The law on the confirmation of the SAA, and that law has only four members. You could have written Article 63(2). Agreement. You see, when they read the explanation, we were listening here yesterday that law has a thousand and a few members. I must tell you that a member of the 2nd Act on Confirmation of the Agreement was tasked with saving the honour of the Republic of Serbia, because it is practically a unilateral statement of the will of the National Assembly as they interpret the agreement. It is clearly said that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that the agreement should be applied throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Both the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Article 2 of this Act on Confirmation of the Agreement obliges both the National Assembly and all future and those previous governments to oppose any desire to join the EU as soon as possible, bear in mind both the Constitution and this provision. Just to remind you, in 2015, terrorist Kosovo also ratified the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU, and then their foreign minister solemnly said -- imagine, that agreement has been ratified by those countries, which is those five EU members who have not recognised independent Kosovo, so that is one political process, and that is why I call on all those who did not vote for the Agreement today not to vote for these amendments and additions to the law. The next moment, which is very important, is what the promoter and individual representatives of the ruling parties are using something called "analyticals". I don't blame them, I don't blame them. Why? I commended the government yesterday, when you sent a bill like this and when you said it had to be done for the SAA, you practically said that international contracts could be an integral part of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia, only if the obligations between national contracts were incorporated into our legal system, that is, our laws. From this, it is concluded that the SAA is not legally binding on us at all, and it will oblige us just as much as we accept to install something in our legal order. And that's why I'm saying we have no obligation to change our Agricultural Land Act. Now I'm gonna go back to that analogy some of them use here, I don't blame them. We had very good regulations and in the old Constitution, if we exempt that social property, even in this new constitution, we had only one legal – technical inaccuracy when all forms of property are equal, the form of property is not known what it means, but it doesn't matter. How did we come into this situation, which some rightly use to make some legal entities abroad the owners of agricultural land? We came here thanks to economists, mathematicians, greedy people in the form of Mladjan Dinkic, Aleksandr Vlahovic, Labus, Pitic, Dusan Vujovic, since he is their dad, because they have designed a system of privatisation and have made their own replacement thesis. In order to represent something as capital, they said the capital is also property, the capital is good, the capital is immobility, the capital is a moving thing, the capital is and the right is and we don't care what the status of certain forms of property is. It's all capital, we privatise capital, and in the context of capital privatisation, agricultural land has gone. Completely unconstitutional and illegal. That's what I need to draw your attention to. And now I'd like to ask the motionary's representative, since we'll probably have a debate on amendments Monday to inquire, I don't suppose he's able to answer right now. But, you see, our regulations stipulate that a foreign natural and legal person who performs activity in Serbia, meaning that the emphasis is on action, economic activity, under the conditions of reciprocity, can acquire property rights to immovable property in the territory of Serbia that they need to carry out their work. And now let's stop. The following Article 82v states on what conditions, is the condition of reciprocity fulfilled and the Ministry of Justice gives its opinion? Is it a condition of action, and are these immovableities necessary for the performance of this activity, that the Ministry of Trade? I doubt it, I have no proof, but I doubt that in all these privatisations and in all these contracts that MPs rightly call for the stranger to have acquired the right to property called agricultural land, that these two provisions are respected, these two obligations of an important ministry. Because without these two opinions, no real estate transport contract can be registered, and the privatisation contract of a company is also in the rank of a real estate contract. There's a kind of replacement here. Someone with an interpretation of everything that goes into capital, that can be privatised, has also inserted agricultural land that is of good general interest, which suffers certain restrictions, only on those goods there is the right to a barrier to purchase in favour of the Republic of Serbia. Let me just draw your attention, if you've banned a foreigner from selling state land, since all forms of property are equal, how could you afford private property on agricultural land to allow a stranger? You're putting something in here is the EU, so we're not members of the EU. Thank God, we'll never be members of the EU. I would suggest that you conduct an analysis and that we make the rules, that we return everything to the previous state, probably to get into the previous state is complete and some kind of nationalization of what has been illegally done. Just to draw your attention, take the old accountants and in the former SFRY was the traffic of agricultural land limited, but as the value of the property was determined according to the investments of the social legal person, because the property had no market value. This is where the market-value thugs tricked us. What has been done with enterprises in social property, it has been done with all real estates and agricultural land and urban-building land and with natural resources, which cannot possibly be in traffic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19136	Thank you, Mr. Krassic. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19137	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, I would like to say at the beginning of my presentation that I will support the proposed amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land and to say that we who are today in this House of the Republic of Serbia, we who are part of the majority that supports the proposed amendments to the law which is on the agenda and those who oppose these changes share two concepts. These two concepts are responsibility, responsibility to their country, responsibility to its future and honesty, and of course there is a question of consistency. Why do I say responsibility? You must be as responsible as the people who exercise power. You can't do one thing today, you're doing something else tomorrow, some of us have had a bad negotiation with the EU before, a poorly negotiated SAA. What do we need to do today as someone seeking EU membership? We should say no, we won't do it now. No, we're trying to prevent these changes and additions to the Agricultural Land Act from doing something that someone wanted to do when they signed such an SAA. Someone who taught the tycoons agricultural land for nothing, then thought they would rule for life, and in 2017, foreigners will start buying agricultural land in Serbia, of those same tycoons, and they take a commission from tycoons. It's this circle of politics, the nakaradic policies, led by former authorities. We are today trying to fix with these changes something that was badly done during the previous government, something that was not good. Some of the former Eurofanatics spoke against the EU yesterday. It is not clear to me why those who signed the SAA, one day they are for the EU, the other day they are not for the EU, so first, let them identify themselves in their ranks. We are for the EU, for European values, we are for European integration, but we are primarily for Serbia. To protect and defend the interests of Serbia, the interests of Serbian farmers, the interests of our producers and the interests of the Serbian state. Now, these changes and additions to the Agricultural Land Act keep the interests of Serbia, the interests of our farmers, and our farms. In that sense, I fully support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law, and I don't think there's any need for any concern, any fear, because we haven't heard from the opposition in these two days anything concrete, anything but naked criticism, except for a naked hate story, which means nothing to them either, which they don't even know where it's going. We know where it's going. This leads so far that after some of the next elections in the congregation, they will no longer be, for you must both be a opposition and as a power to be accountable to the voters. That's what we are. The ministry led by Mr Branislav Nedimovic has shown a high degree of responsibility for agriculture and the state of Serbia, and I am sure that these changes and additions to the Agricultural Land Act will give the effects they need today to the state of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19138	Thank you, fellow Filipovic. National MP Snježana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. He's not here. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19139	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, respected ministers, respected Serbian citizens, once again to repeat what I said yesterday at the very beginning of my presentation. So this is another law by which the government saves us from threats for which fears are less self-absorbed with the fierce media support of the media, which are more or less fully controlled by the authorities. Where does the greater threat come from to own our farm land? I mean, the thing is basic, I believe all MPs know this, but I'll do it again for the citizens. Therefore, the Business Society Act in this country prescribes in its Article 145 that the company’s share capital is 100 dinars. In our country, a limited-responsibility society can register anyone, wherever he may be - from Sejela, from the British, Virgin Islands, from Tortola, from Delaware, from Pristina, Zagreb, Moscow, Siberia, whatever. He needs 100 dinars and additional costs of taxis, lawyers, notaries, but if he has to buy agricultural land he'll be able to handle those extra costs, no problem for him. When such a person registers the company, the company will, as a legal person, join the negotiations on the purchase of agricultural land with anyone who is willing to sell agricultural land and the purchase will happen as any purchase, when the parties in the agreement reach, therefore, agreement on a mutually acceptable price and agricultural land will be sold to the company whose owner founded it with 100 dinars, wherever it is. So he doesn't even have to start his own company. Wherever he comes from, he can buy a stake in a domestic company, on the stock market, in a direct contract to buy a share or shares, depending on whether the company is a limited liability company. If the company in which he buys a stake in his property has agricultural land, he becomes the owner of the agricultural land relative to his own holding stake in the company. There, we can make it so simple for the citizens. Therefore, from the economy, so from the domains of companies and company rights comes the threat that someone buys cheap, fast, whatever, large amounts of agricultural land. Therefore, these are serious investors and there is a public interest and a state interest, where the state should be protected to retain control of such an important natural and economic resource as agricultural land which has, for a reason, been declared a good of general interest. So what we're discussing today, so what we're talking about today is also a threat, but much smaller, I'm obliged to say no and insignificant, and it also needs to be seriously regulated and regulated by law because it also protects public interest, as in any other place. The elected representatives of citizens, whether in the legislative or executive power, are obliged to represent the interest, agree on an international conclusion so that the provisions are agreed as accurately as possible and that the public interest of the state of Serbia and its citizens is better cemented. The objective provision of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is ambiguous. That's what I was talking about yesterday, today I wouldn't bother anyone with a re-reading. Whatever the interpretation of it, it is appropriate for me that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in the draft law, in its reasoning, says that on 1 September 2017, therefore, by the deadline which expires on 1 September 2017, we are obliged to give EU citizens the same treatment as our citizens when it comes to gaining ownership of agricultural land. I will read what the Government of the Republic of Serbia says in an explanation. "In the four following year" period, and this period expires on 1 September this year, "we should have coordinated our legislation," so we should have already finished this, "to ensure EU citizens the same treatment". So now we're passing the law, politically completely of domestic interest, protecting our domestic interest, but it's contrary to the SAA provisions. So the proposer in his explanation actually says something that the law doesn't regulate. The logical question is, if we are already passing a law that is contrary to the SAA, why didn't we go all the way and completely protect domestic agricultural land from the traffic between domestic and foreign citizens and do what the neighbouring Croatia did - make it impossible for any foreign citizens, wherever they come from, to buy agricultural land, whether they are from the Netherlands, whether they are from Bangladesh? So we should go all the way. Let me get this straight. We are passing a law that is contrary to the SAA, because we have been abandoning this issue for five years, so we have come up to a few days before the deadline and the law is passed by an emergency procedure at an emergency session that the ruling majority has not even managed to bring more than 125 MPs and to return them from their annual vacations to this session on such an important topic on which the Government is defending our citizens from the threat that they will be left without agricultural land and that they will be hungry tomorrow. Two, we prescribe measures that will put our citizens in a worse position than the citizens of Croatia and Hungary, because our citizens there will not be able to buy agricultural land even when we become members of the EU, and we did not have to prescribe it because otherwise we prescribe a law that is contrary to the provisions of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Under three, we are missing the opportunity to prescribe conditions for the public, although we know that the regime under which foreigners can buy agricultural land is not equally regulated in all EU countries. Another example of Hungary and Croatia. We are insufficiently protecting the land from drought and city, because our irrigation projects are insufficient and late. The money we take from insurance to protect from citizens was 2.3m euros last year. We don't have information on what it's spent on, because the ministry doesn't exactly state these things in its reports. For agriculture in the budget, we generally single out much less than its participation in GDP. So 2.47% of the total expenditure and expenditures of the Serbian budget compared to 10-12, last year even 15% of its participation in GDP. Finally, we defend ourselves here against the foreigners of natural persons, and on the other hand, we give up to 30% of the country at the level of local self-government by the legal entities that we subsidize, who have an interest here to come because they can do a lot of things at home that they can't do. Here are the legal regulations looser. Here even so looser legal regulations are more easy to implement, more looser. It's a possible deal. So, the interest to come is there and, most importantly, here is the unsuspected work. There's an operational labour cost here. So, cheap labor. At the very least, our government promotes this advertising message at CNN – Serbia is a country of cheap labour. So, the work of the citizens has been refused. It's a direct impulse that the operating cost very cheap motive for legal persons to come here, so it's obvious that it's clear and we further encourage them with the convenience of the lease championship and the massive subsidies. Thank the government of the Republic of Serbia for that kind of protection of the domestic interest of domestic farmers and domestic citizens in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19140	Thank you. The word has Minister Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19141	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, I want first of all for the public, although yesterday we held a debate on the same matter. If I took a stenographic note, if I had the right to take it, I might be right, it would probably be in six words different exposure, but I want to say, first of all, for the sake of the public one thing. You have to tell the difference. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement regulates relations between Serbia and the EU as a community, not with each individual state individually. You have to distinguish treatment from the conditions. The treatment is possible in terms of agricultural land, conditions have been put in Serbia's interest. the conditions set out serve to correct what is not in the negotiation process ended. That's the essence of the whole story. The story of irrigation, the story of the anti-urban network, yesterday we commented on it, I don't want to owe it again, but the fact is that the treatment is one thing, the conditions are another, and this is how we fix what we can. Over.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19142	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Djuric has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19143	Thank you. It's a very short replica. Minister, if we negotiate with the EU as a whole, then we have one point of negotiations, then we could change the SAA with that one negotiator. I will remind you, state secretaries at the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia have repeatedly said that the change in the SAA is impossible because this would mean ratification by all EU member states. So we are still negotiating with EU member states, not with the EU as a whole. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19144	Minister Nedimovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19145	No one can say anything is impossible, anything is theoretically possible. Is it possible and within what deadlines, it's a matter of great discussion. What you're talking about, you're talking about, the fact, with every country in particular if you want to go to shifts. But as far as the Agreement is concerned, they ratified each individual, this Agreement, he came into force as such. We're talking here, I'm getting the impression, I understand yesterday in the opening statement, you're a party that I'm guessing is pro-European-oriented. I don't know if you're in this part or in this part or if I don't know where. With all due respect, I think maybe one of the predecessors here who spoke on the subject of amending the law might be able to explain to you exactly what it is about the SAA.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19146	Thank you, Minister. The word has Zvonimir Djokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19147	Thank you. Yesterday and today, respected fellow MPs, we had the opportunity to hear both serious discussions and less serious and sad, sad, etc. But let's get back to the agenda and put things in place. Our headaches these days create an obligation stemming from an international legal act signed by Serbia with the EU, i.e. The European Community, it is about the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, on the basis of which we have, we accepted it then, and we have an obligation to bring our laws into line for a few more days, so that citizens or members of the EU have almost the same rights or equal rights as Serbian citizens buying agricultural land. So that we are not being moved on about how immature or unserious we are, etc., and that we are now all the worst talking about this Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we are not criticising the Agreement itself, which is certainly good for Serbia, we are criticising negotiators who did not negotiate well in time and put us in a position that no other EU member states have, or any country that has been a candidate for EU accession. Whether Bozidar Djelic, then vice-president of the government, was a good negotiator or not, is a matter for discussion, but the Stabilisation and Association Agreement did not negotiate well, he and the whole team that was composed mainly of representatives of the then government. Because they didn't negotiate well, we're in trouble now, and we want to solve this problem, and we've found a way to solve it. We'll settle it with the law we're adopting today, i.e. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act. I wouldn't say Bozidar Djelic is a bad negotiator. I'd say, first of all, that he had different intentions and priorities. He was not interested in the Serbian state at the time. It was primarily interested in individual centres of power that allowed about 300,000 hectares of agricultural land to be purchased over a short period of time. Only four people, four people hold over 100,000 hectares of land, hoping that within four years, now this 1 September they will continue to be in power and that right now they will be able to re-sell the country again. It is estimated that in the next five to ten years, this country would cost five and ten times as much as it is now. Whether this government, and any such objections, has taken this problem seriously or not, has objected that it has come unseriously, I say it is not, says the fact that this government has asked the Institute of Economic Sciences and the Institute of Economics of Agriculture to conduct a professional study, i.e. an analysis of the legal and institutional framework of the agricultural land market, an assessment of the economic effects of market liberalisation, agricultural land and recommendations for changes to the domestic legislative and institutional framework and their adequate application. This analysis was done by the Institute of Economic Sciences and the Institute of Economics of Agriculture, under the leadership of Dr Jovan Zubovic, not to list how many other doctors and magistrates participated there, and the orderer was the Government. So the government has come very seriously to solve this problem. It's an exceptional analysis, it needs to be read, it's available to the public, but I'm not going to go into her details right now. I think the measures provided for in these changes, this amendment law and amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land, just prevented what the whole people, the whole public in Serbia, wanted to prevent, which is that someone came to us from September 1st and simply bought from us the agricultural land owned by private persons. It's been said here several times what measures these are. This is that this potential buyer must be kept for at least ten years in the local self-government unit, meaning, in Serbia, that he handles for at least three years the agricultural land that is the subject of the purchase, that he has registered agricultural land for at least ten years, that he owns the machinery and equipment to carry out that agricultural activity, then, as an additional, we provide that agricultural land by, for example, being designated as building land, it cannot be bought, that it does not belong to protected natural goods, that it does not belong to or is not bordered with military facilities, military facilities, etc., so we take care of ourselves. This has been talked about more than once, so I won't say it again. I completely agree, and I accept that this is the bill we need to adopt. I'm in, and I'm asking you to do it in the voting day. But in the end, I would look back on just one more thing, very briefly. Yesterday we heard in the discussion, and it was about the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, that there was a split between one then large opposition party and some of its members came because someone first approved something, so they did not approve, so he withdrew his word, etc., and in fact the problem turns to the other. Gentlemen, SNS, i.e. We who once voted for the SRS, I count ourselves as such, we essentially separated from that policy long before that, perhaps even the moment that the will was read in front of the American embassy. Remember what was written there. That is why the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is important, because there is a fundamental difference between some of the two policies, I do not deliberately list which parties are being spoken of. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19148	Thanks, buddy. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19149	Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and ministers with co-workers, therefore, you, not yourself, although you yourself, and the Government, and the SNS, and all media that serve the well-known purpose of promoting all that the Government is doing, you convince us and the citizens that this law prevents the sale of agricultural land and agricultural land to foreigners. The prime minister promised it here as she gave the exposés, the MPs applauded, the people rejoiced, the paori probably relieved to think that it would be their salvation from foreign companies that came and got the best agricultural land in their misery, and that would be great if that were the case. But you don't. Whom do you forbid by this law to buy agricultural land? You forbid some assumed, imaginary farmer from Germany, let's call him Hans, you're the government of ministers, so you're the farmer Hans, who deals with agriculture in Germany, whose law now sets the impossible conditions for him to come and deal with agriculture in Serbia. How can I tell you, Mr. Minister, it's not crazy for him to come to agriculture in Serbia that deals with agriculture in Germany for private purposes, because there's a regulated agrarian policy there, and here it reduces its subsidies every year. Here someone's brother is harassing him, he needs to take care of whether he can get to the land he wants. It's seen in the sky like 500 years ago to see it's going to be a dry year or it's going to be a rainy year, so it's up to us, not only its contribution, but the entire GDP, too. A law has been passed here, allowing 30% of the land in each municipality to be allocated to the SNS business partner by the free choice of the president of the municipality and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So he's not crazy about coming to agriculture in Serbia, and you're just preventing him from coming to buy a country in Serbia, up to two hectares. So you're preventing whoever doesn't want to come. At the same time, while we are defending this Hans from buying two hectares of the country in Serbia, you are also assigning thousands of hectares to foreigners, only now they are legal persons, whose law continues to prevent them from registering businesses in Serbia, buying businesses in Serbia, and thus reaching the best agricultural land in our country. Let's see how your big investments, your foreign friends, that this law not only defends, but also encourages them to come to Serbia, look. "Tenis" which you, for unknown reasons, accentuate as "teniz" as if it were some kind of French firm or I don't know what it is, an announced investment according to Alexander Vukic's firm promise, 200m euros, half a million pigs, eight thousand jobs. It is somewhat unusual, given that "Tenis" in all its factories in Germany, Denmark does not have as many workers as Vukic has announced to hire in Serbia. Otherwise, just so our citizens know, expecting these jobs, it's a company that's as much as the meat production, known for the exploitable conditions of the work of the people who work in the company, which is why she paid several times the fines in Germany, where she normally operates, so the Northern Rayna-Westphalia District Ministry paid the fine for exhausting working time, murky contracts with foreign workers and poor health care employees. The media, when they write about "Tenis", mostly write about Eastern European paid slaves who "Tenis" live in unconditional collective accommodations, and otherwise the company has paid huge fines because it has turned out that workers have been filmed even while in the toilet and in the shower, etc. To that company, the big investor from Germany, we'll see what happens from that investment, you've assigned 2.5 thousand hectares to Zrenjanin. Experts estimate that for such an investment, as Vucic announced, they need to have about 20,000 hectares, which would settle them, which would place Mr. Clemens Tenis, the owner of the family company, in line with the three largest landowners in Serbia. So, you're defending some kind of paor from Germany to come and buy two acres in Serbia, putting in front of it impossible conditions, and you assign to your business partner Clemens Tenis so many countries that he will be the third owner in Vojvodina by size. You really need to do an analysis of those big investments of yours. You need to look back at what's coming. Of course, the Arab investments “Al Ravafed” etc. We don't really have time to talk about it. You told us everything yesterday, you just didn't tell us if it was true what was written in the media about that company. You said a little tears in your eyes, it was pretty emotional when you talked about "Al Ravaphed". So, the joint firm is gone, there's no telling where it is, the press can't get to it. Many lands are being processed in Vojvodina. Paori says one-third of it's parked, it's not processed, etc. I don't have time to talk about it. If you don't know what to do with the land, ask farmers, don't keep putting some of your business partners ahead of them, ahead of their interests. They must know better than you do.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19150	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19151	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable MPs, I may have been with tears in my eyes yesterday talking about investment, for one simple reason. A man who works and wants to succeed must have an emotion for it. I'm not a stone, I'm someone who wants to change things that haven't worked properly in the last 30 or 40 years, and a lot of them have been fighting for 40 years, and they haven't even moved their fingers. That's the first thing. No one can forbid me to love, to want, to try to do the job I think I should do. At the very end of the line, citizens will give their judgment sooner or later. Another thing, speaking of "tenosis", I don't ever want to talk like this, but I think the correct expression of the name of this economic operator is nothing wrong. As for the story of landowners and other things, how many landowners were in the privatisation process, it was just said, and now I can be a parrot to repeat those 20,000 acres that went back then, but I want to tell you something else. This is about the real lease. When it is in December or November of the month, I can no longer remember, when the agricultural law was amended, the Law on Incentives was amended, the question of transparency of the agricultural land lending process was raised under the Law on Agricultural Land. Then I assured you, now the same thing you saw for yourself that the procedure was completely transparent, no negotiation, no negotiation, no direct guessing, no spinning, no other things. At the end of the line "Tenis" is one of the applications, one of the 219 applications, has the exact same status as all others and will have the same obligations to meet the environmental needs, related to future labour and all that is necessary. For your information, it's not just Zrenjanin, it's been approved and Kikinda, there are three other applications that are under review. Everything will be presented in a transparent way, as very often this word is used here, and presented to the Committee on Agriculture as the rules require. As far as heaven and agriculture are concerned, as I recall it's not the thing that's been in the last two or three or five years, it's our system problem. At one point in our history, in the '60s, '70s, a lot was done on it, later on because of various things, negligence, lack of financial resources or who knows what, not that systems were not built, but they weren't even maintained, and that's all the process that's going on out there until 2014. I think we got a warning one big time and then we changed our minds and that's normal. I'll tell you, I don't know if it can be called an anecdote, my one personal experience to share with you about the defense of the upcoming Sava River in 2014. It was so long ago the last time something like that happened. Why am I telling you this? In terms of how things fade in the heads and the people, they're more understood, and they don't really get along, and everyone expected that someone would come at that point and I don't know where to solve the problems of all the citizens. That's when the shift of consciousness began, and I think that today's citizens are looking very differently at the flood defense system and the irrigation systems. As for Al Ravapheda, I end up here, yesterday I was showing what "Al Ravafed" has solved, it's not hard for me once again, and I'm not having a hard time showing it 100 times, because I think it's very important because of the citizens of Serbia, that these are systems that are already finished, which are located at seven different locations in the Vojvodine area, or in the space of Sivac, in the space of Bac and other places, and that these are things that I, yesterday and I suggested to Mr Jesic to go and look at, there are two logistics centers built, because everyone is talking about something they probably didn't see. I don't want to get into it, of course, everyone has the right to think about anything in any way. Al Ravafed, if anyone wants to find him, can find him without any problems. At the New Zealand Fair, I saw their booth, their presentation, after a few more places when it was there. Whether they will have in their business policy such definitions that they have a website, a presentation, I don't think that's good, that it's bad, that they should present everything, because good things should always be presented. Things about renting agricultural land will always point out on this basis in the first place as a well realised investment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19152	Thank you, Minister. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19153	Thank you, Vice President. It's not a problem of drying and irrigation since yesterday, but you took a 200m-euro loan from the government of Abu Dhabi for irrigation, 100, and then in a few stages, Dinkic and Vukic got a little carried away in the announcements, so there's probably an account lost. I'm interested in how much of that loan was withdrawn, when it was withdrawn, is everything planned? It's really a little hypocritical that we're talking about agriculture as if it's some kind of development chance, and people have no idea what it's like, that we're really just missing some assignments going there now, playing, calling for rain, so the drought doesn't ruin their crops, and here our agriculture is a big development opportunity. Do you think, Mr. Nedimovic, that our paror is more at risk of "Tenis" or any other large company, it doesn't have to be foreign or domestic, or that it's more of a threat to this Hans, whom you have now forbidden to come and buy two acres because the conditions set before him are impossible. It can't be fulfilled by anyone but those who have dual citizenship. It's another political issue that I really don't think we should be opening, and you're probably talking about. What have you done to protect this farmer from "Tenis" and "Al Ravapheda" and all others, both foreign and domestic, Kostic, Miskovic, etc., Jerkovica, I don't know who they are, Matijevići and others in the game, because every law you bring protects the farmer from that Hans who would come and buy two acres and deal with agriculture in Serbia, not Germany, and not from those you bring and give them the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19154	Thank you. The word has Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19155	I won't be long, but he thinks we need to do it one more time, because obviously when you repeat one thing enough, maybe people might hear it, if they want to hear it. In this way, the amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land, we fix things that were not at that time when it was negotiated in the best possible way. This is the way in the frames you have available. In front of me is the Law on Confirmation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Community and their Member States on the one hand and the Republic of Serbia on the other. In Article 53(5) of the Agreement, which concerns companies, it is said, following the entry into force of this Agreement, the daughters of the companies of the community will have the right to acquire and enjoy property rights to real estates as well as Serbian companies, and as regards public goods, the same rights enjoyed by Serbian companies when these rights are necessary for the exercise of the economic activities for which they are established. There are other things to talk about. This thing, as someone just said, I think a colleague from your MP group said the same thing, it was adopted, and that's right, and there's nothing we can do about it. Within the limits of possible, we have improved to protect Serbia's interests. All the rest of it, of course, is the field of political thinking or negotiation. As far as Abu Dhabi is concerned, 100 million were agreed. At this point, we're pulling back on the projects of the first 16 million dollars. I'm sorry, I didn't hear. (Gordana Comic: Doesn't that stand out now? I was just about to tell you, five days ago we got a decision from the Abu Dhabi Development Fund to extend by 2021 without any subsequent cost of withdrawing funds on this basis. When I became Minister of Agriculture, we formed an implementing unit that had to regulate these things. The first 11 projects that had such a degree of technical documentation that they could have approval were sent over the next few months. If you ask me if it could've been any faster – everything could've gone faster. It can always go faster and faster, harder and better to work on these things. There's one thing, you know what happens now about the irrigation system? I'm glad I managed to make you feel better today, but we have more and more interested among the people's entities dealing with finance, who want to join us in projects to build a irrigation system, not only on borrowing, but also on the basis of grants, such as the Green Climate Fund. We have to use it to tie things up. I know it may seem terrible to you, but we've started working on this project. I say the options that are available, and who thinks about it... We have a reconstruction and development with the European Bank, and with them, the other day we had meetings about it. Our goal is to do it. Why someone didn't want it, didn't want it, couldn't or didn't know it, I can't get into it, and it's not an object. I know we need this as bread, for one simple reason, I'm going to repeat again, what the highway is for road traffic, it's for agriculture irrigation systems.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19156	Thank you, Minister. Replica, Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19157	I won't be long either. Mr. Minister, what can I tell you, and I sometimes wonder if it's enough to repeat. Three notes, as far as I'm concerned. First of all, about that -- nobody's crazy to come, we heard it yesterday. Great, congratulations on the conclusion. Just one question - and when did we get to him, when did we draw that conclusion? Is it possible that this session should have started and debated the law so that we could hear that conclusion, that all those many months behind us were necessary to get organized shouting, to raise a hack -- will come evil strangers, will all be bought alive? I don't know, it seems to me that I haven't heard one single organization from that DOS team, which is going to be a party, which is a movement, so no solo singer has been involved, and everything in context and in a way -- now there's going to be a disaster, and evil government is doing nothing to stop it. Today he says, "No one will come." To be honest, he speaks for himself enough. How much is it? Well, I don't know. Did Hungary and Poland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Bulgaria, also think about not counting further, conclude that no one would come, so they introduced some protection measures? Maybe that's not all. If we look at it a little bit more precisely, what we're doing today is a real need, but it's also something that's completely normal. But let's, please, park the hypocrisy so permanently and put the keys aside. It is not realistic that we have to talk again about today worrying about the possibility that foreign capital is behind a domestic legal person registered in Serbia, and that he has nothing to worry about or disputed about in 2003, 2005 when he did Agrokor, Žitogroup 2009, Hungarians, Irish 2007. So I'm not saying it was a disaster back then, I'm just saying it didn't bother anyone who's supposed to be worried about today. Let's not deal with that kind of hypocrisy. In the end, third, let's not deal with talking like exploitable business and slaves when it comes to investors. That's not why I end up, Mr. Chairman, a good result with jobs today, and there won't be any minor damage with hundreds of thousands of lost jobs, when these people are talking about, who are permanently ruined by today's falsely concerned, let them speak with tears in their eyes, is elementary courtesy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19158	Thank you. Alexandra Jerkov, who do you want to replicate? (Alexandra Jerkov: Both Minister and Mr. Orlic, in one replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19159	It's only about the loan to Mr. Secretary. So in 2014, a loan deal was concluded, we ratified it here, a 100m-euro contract was signed. In 2017 you tell us that 16m euros have been withdrawn, it's only two months, three months before the contract expires, and you say you don't know whose responsibility it is, you don't care what reasons. Well, you must be interested, because you're sitting in the same government that pulled a 100m-euro loan and three months or two months before the deadline pulled 16m euros. If you're not interested, I believe you're interested in some farmers out there who've suffered some damage because the loan hasn't been realised. It's been two years now, or three years, where you didn't realize that loan, and it only started to happen when you came in. Team above, you should be interested in what Goran Knezevic was doing with the loan, what our colleague Snezana Bogosavljević Boskovic was doing, what Aleksandar Vučić was doing, what Vujović was doing, etc. Please ask around. If you're not interested, someone else is interested in whose responsibility we're out of 100m euros, two months before the deadline, withdrew 16m euros. Mr. Orlic, when he talks, I see, Mr. Orlic, it bothered you at the time, and now you don't mind. It's just, I don't know with what right you're transferring to anyone what anybody thought, since I see everything that bothered you with the Democratic Party, and you've even improved, made it 10 times worse and now it's great, now this policy that was devastating, just now in a much more pronounced and much more harmful, uncomparedly harmful form, is now great. Mr. Orlic, the government of Alexander Vukic, most of yours passed a law by which a third of the land in each local self-government is given to a foreign investor. The Democratic Party has nothing to do with it. You suggested, you brought, you realized.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19160	The word has Vladimir Orlic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19161	Thank you very much. Yes, that particular party, of course, I mean the yellow company at the old address, but which is no longer at the old address, has nothing to do with the year 2003, 2005, 2007, 2009, the years I talked about earlier. When I was talking about hypocrisy, well, that's what I mean. What government does Alexander Vukic have to do with 2003, 2005, 2007 and 2009? Let's take things seriously. We say - the bad things of the former regime, we've made it ten times worse. Is that so? Well, here, let every citizen of Serbia conclude. Did we, for example, leave five million people out of work today? Here, it would have to be true that the thesis would be that we're ten times worse. They left 500,000 people out of work, and we'd have to leave five million people out of work today to make it ten times worse. Let's get serious. So, the story was just a moment ago, they say – their policy has won and today everything that represents that policy has been accepted. What's your proof that it's not? Well, for example, it's proof that you don't have a single minister today, a government representative, our party, however you want, who can, say, settle somewhere in the central city municipality, buy a million-and-a-half piece of land there from the MP's or the minister's salary, invest hundreds of thousands more in the building, become co-owner in 190 square meters, and on all those hundreds of thousands more to put hundreds of thousands of euros on savings, and the word one can't tell him where it comes from. You see, since that's not happening today, it's certainly proof that the politics of the yellow company did not win. That's not what's going on today. He won a serious, responsible relationship with this country and its citizens. If you don't believe me, ask the citizens what they think. It will end again at the level of response – they understand about two percent, and that will soon be too much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19162	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. We can move on, I think we're done talking. Thank you, colleague Jerkov. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19163	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, has already come before us on the second day of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land, which is very important from the aspect of preventing the full liberalisation of agricultural land sales, as foreseen by the 2008 Stabilisation and Association Agreement. However, it is no wonder, since the agreement was signed by a man who convinced all of us that the biggest economic crisis, the global economic crisis that has hit the whole world, is a major developmental opportunity for Serbia. It was such a big development opportunity for Serbia that all segments of society were destroyed in 2012 and agricultural producers, peasants were brought to the beggar stick. It is completely incorrect and completely hypocritical that from those who worked from 2009 to 2011 to collapse processing facilities in the area of agriculture, and we know that processing capacities produce additional value and that and how they affect GDP, they have left 100,000 workers in the food processing industry without a job. Every third privatisation that has been conducted in their time has been cancelled. What about subsidies? The subsidies were only great privileges. Two thirds of agricultural producers from 2009 to 2011 were left without incentives. When it was 100 euros per ha, 70% of the budget was used by only 30% of the largest agricultural producers, mostly tycoon from Vojvodina. What I still have to mention, and as far as hypocrisy is concerned, one part of the MPs mainly from the former Dossian regime's parties, is that they have allowed the full liberalisation of imports of agricultural and food products from the EU, and that we have not yet become a member of the EU and thus, and only thanks to the measures of the Government of Serbia whose prime minister was Aleksandar Vukic, 300,000 farms have been saved from the collapse and 150 small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. dairy. This was in the period from 2014 to 2016. At that time, a small agricultural producer with one or two cows was rescued about 70%, thanks to these protective measures. What I want to point out is that there has been deliberate, or malicious interference between legal institutes, which are legal institutes relating to the sale of land and legal institutes relating to the lease of land. These two legal institutes are completely different and create different rights and obligations from their differences. This draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land regulates the transport of agricultural land in private property between EU citizens and those holding private property. The conditions given by this bill are quite restrictive for EU citizens. The application of this law when adopted in the Assembly is expected only in 2027. This law is in the interest of a Serbian peasant. The law is in the interest of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS has no dilemma, in voting day it will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19164	Thank you, colleague Vukojičić. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19165	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill proposed to the National Assembly has been delayed. This question was supposed to be settled in basic law. If, in its time, the Republic of Serbia had passed such a law that would limit and guarantee the right of barriers to purchase from citizens, therefore, private persons in KIM would in that case prevent the state from buying the Serbian country from our citizens. This would protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia. It was adopted in 1989 by the Law on Special Conditions on Transport of immovableity. Under the criminal law, the finance ministry was empowered to grant approval and consent, and the ministry gave both caps and fist approvals, but the Shiptari did not ask for much, they only asked to enter into possession and give money and the Serbs to leave their hearth. The amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act will not be applied because there is no legal interest in coming by two ha and thus coming into possession under these special conditions as provided for by this special law. This is about solving a problem that won't be solved but a piece. I expected it to be in a proposal and a different solution. In fact, Israel bought the land from the Arabs who sold land and gave it to their citizens to use it without compensation. On the other hand, Serbian citizens, especially farmers, expect hundreds and hundreds of privatisations of agricultural combinations and agricultural cooperatives to be carried out. As they were privatized and sold, criminals bought and reselled, and workers were out of a job. Only in southern Banat are PIC "Tamish", then the "Banat" combination in the White Church, in Starchev, in Opovo, in Omojica, in Plandište, in Alibunar where numerous criminal privatisations have been carried out. The privatisation of agricultural land that farmers rely on was also the privatisation of the Pančeva Azotara, which depends exactly on Serbia's entire agricultural area for the supply of artificial fertilizer. In 2006 Azotara panchewska was sold for $13 million and $100,000. The finished products in the Azotara warehouses were $15 million. The thugs who came in with a purse and a bow tie from Lithuania and another former security official at the time bought Azotar Panchewska, so for $13m and $100,000 to get a new factory that was to be released into production, which the workers had previously made "Carbamid 2", disassembled, sold, loaded into trains, sent to Ukraine and sold for $32m. Her accounting value was $35 million. The Azotara workers suffered enormous damage. The state of the Republic of Serbia and my proposal is that the state, first of all, remains the majority owner of the Azotara Pancheva because it is of general interest to the farmers of the Republic of Serbia. It is now done through the "Serbiagas" and the Agency's Fund that manages the Azotara of the Pancheva. A number of criminal acts have been solved? The 24 privatisations the EU has indicated have not been resolved yet, including Azotara Panchevska. The question arises, what will happen to Azotar Panchewska if she moves into private hands, will she be privatised in the way that the flag case in Kragujevac is also going to be privatised? As far as the law is concerned, it's an emergency procedure. I am pleased, there are colleagues from the coalition in power, if there is a need for legislative reform, that legislation should be avoided in the American way. Europe also avoids reform of the legislation of Americanisation in Europe, because the whole of Europe is applying continental law, and only England is applying Anglo-Saxon law. Most countries in Asia and Africa and Latin America apply continental law. What's more important? This wasn't supposed to come as an emergency procedure. This is a solution to a piece, and this law will not come in application, it will only be applied in six months. You should've taken care of what the priority was. The priority is if we want the laws by emergency procedure, first of all, the Code of Criminal Procedure, procedurally-criminally. So, legislation and criminal code in the civil area, Law on litigation, law on enforcement and security. So there are many laws. To pass the final civil law. Therefore, in this direction, I propose to the government that the priorities be respected and that such solutions are dealt with as an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19166	Thank you very much, fellow Jojic. The word is by Prof. Dr. Ljubiša Stoimirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19167	Dear colleagues and colleagues, and something that concerns me, is that we have heard here today that much has been done against the law, that huge criminal acts have been committed, even here are mentioned ministers and MPs who acted contrary to the law. And all of us, when we came here on duty and all the representatives of the government or ministers, took an oath and in that oath we committed to serve in the interests of the Serbian people, that is, the citizens of Serbia and in accordance with the laws and the Constitution. It's a shame that one of these really big blames wasn't responsible for what he did, so from that and those others who are being remembered for doing something illegal or criminally a little bit taken into account and said to themselves—be careful, for this can be answered, I won't exactly do it. Now, as far as these changes are concerned, that is, this law, what can I say? I am one of those who believe that the strategic resources in which the land belongs, under no circumstances can they attach to neither natural nor legal persons, foreign origin, that it must be something where, in the whole range of states, it will be the one who has, or the citizens of the Serbian state. But we've had this pain, it's happened to us, and sometimes out of ignorance, maybe on purpose, it's signed by some SAA or whatever it's called, and now it's this furniture, or this ministry has found itself struggling to correct it. And as that people's "backborn, time doesn't correct" says, and that is why today we are facing a big problem, but with a problem that we have to solve as we now allow circumstances. I'd be happier, that's what I said, if neither natural nor legal persons could buy land on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it relates to the same source of water, to mineral wealth, etc. But since that's the case, let's fix what can be fixed. Mr. Minister, God has given you the power to be at the head of a ministry that is very important to Serbia right now. And neither are you, Krassic. Agriculture, or our peasants saved Serbia in the Balkan wars, in the first war, in the second war, and we really have to repay them today and help them in this time that is very difficult for them. You've been given a chance to really do a lot of things and to bring our agriculture and our farmer or our paor or whatever he calls it to the level he deserves. I will be very happy for you to do this and be the best minister in the history of the Republic of Serbia and wish you good luck in this business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19168	Thank you, Professor Stoimirovich. Srdjan Nogo has a word, but the Dverry MP group has no more time. Milimir Vujadinović, please sign in. Here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19169	The Honorable Chairman, the Ministers of Associates, the Honorable fellow Members of the People. Well, here's a legal proposal for us today, but it's impossible to talk about it today and not go back a little bit to the past as it goes for almost nine years, so it's closer than a few months. Nine years ago I guess as Professor Stoimirovic said by ignorance, I would not say by ignorance of the professor, rather I would say that it is a bad intention, a former government, the then DOS negotiated this SAA unhappily in such a way that today we are in a situation that if we do not adopt this legal proposal, foreigners can participate in the transport of agricultural land in Serbia, or, in short, they can buy the Serbian country uninterruptedly. It's about the past, the distant past. As for a little bit closer, I will remind the prime minister of the government's election a few months ago here in a respected home, the biggest round of applause, I remember, received a promise in her exposé to prevent the sale of Serbian countries to foreigners, and here we are today witnessing that policy, fulfilling promises, this responsible relationship with the state and society. It's just that I won't look back much, because a lot of things are said about everything that is the good side of this law, when it comes to a period where land has to be processed and when it comes to the obligation to own the country's machinery and machines, when it comes to the right to prevent buying from the state, but also everything that matters to agriculture, more than it is a matter of agriculture, I would say that this is one strategic, political, if you will ultimately and the security issue of the state of Serbia. It's an important issue for the state level, but above all, it's an important question for Vojvodina, I guess it's the most Serbian orcs there, and I think it's quite clear. It is also good, the minister has already mentioned in his opening statement that there is one general social consensus when it comes to this legal solution and that the legal solution has been supported by associations of agricultural producers. This is the measure between keeping national interest on the one hand, but also respecting international obligations on the other, however they may have arisen. Obligations, of course, stem from this SAA that in its parts and protracted, but this is a way of simply correcting those mistakes from the past, that is, those bad intentions from the past. Now, we've been listening to these days and the criticism of this law, and we've listened to it in the previous period when the law was on the agenda, this same law, but it prevented us from usurping state land. We've been listening to these pointless criticisms, and today we see the results, and I'm only going to give you one example. As early as 2010, Subotica as the local self-government I come from, issued 12,700 hectares of state land, and today it is about 15,000 hectares, about 85 million dinars of more income for the city's register. I think it's all clear, and the situation was exactly the same, and a lot of criticism as it is today. There's not much to say, I think there's been a lot said in the last two days. Dear Minister, and Professor Stoimirovic said a lot of things, to say, he stole my thought somewhere, gave you the opportunity to take care of the Serbian peasant, so far you're doing well. Continue in this direction, and I am sure that all the legal solutions and proposals that come to this respected house will have the support of the MPs, but also the support of Serbia's majority. With that in mind, ultimately, I will support this proposed legislative solution in the voting day and thank you all.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19170	Thank you, colleague Vujadinović. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19171	Thank you for this enthusiasm I hear. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, this is an extremely important topic, and this is not just a topic that is important to us who are here and who are discussing it, this is a vital topic of life. At the beginning of my speech, I'm sorry I don't have any more time, I want to say that the MP club and I personally, DS, will not support this law in the voting day. Mr Minister, since 2008, we know that the deadline for adoption is 1 September 2017. We, as the Democratic Party, ask the question to you who were on this side of ours as they say "yellow side", you could learn from us and something good. You could have started a public debate, you could have started a public debate with professional and responsible people in this area. Why didn't you do it? Is it because the SNS is afraid of debates and conversations with anyone else who thinks otherwise, that because you haven't fulfilled any pre-election promise in six years, you wouldn't exactly hear what the citizens think of you? You're saying that natural persons have to have a ten-year apartment where they want to buy land. All right. That for three years they have to process the same country they want to buy and that 10 years they need to have an active agricultural land without interruption. That's okay, what counterpart Krasic says. What if a stranger starts a company, a phantom firm, because the SNS is famous for bringing phantom companies, and he with a 100-euro stake, and buys a country for an employee. What are we doing in this situation? We have more examples, and phantom destruction of Belgrade at night, and phantom contracts with Er Serbia, and many other contracts that the SNS is known for. This law doesn't really make any sense, in that famous folk's whether the glass is half full or half empty. What did you want with this law? You are the fourth agriculture minister in six years' time, and what is symptomatic is that every minister elected by the SNS is worse than its predecessors.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19172	Thank you, fellow Milojich. The word has Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19173	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of the People, I am sorry that Mr Milojicic did not have more time to express his position on this law, because I have heard three times that something is right, and then I hear in the end after three positive opinions in the end a negative conclusion. I've seen a lot of things in logical operations, but I haven't seen this yet. As for what I've done in my past, I'm not running away from it at all. I ran this town, I was in politics, and I watched every time I did it for my own good. I went to the election, I won the election, thank God, I haven't lost them yet, unlike you. Why wasn't there a public hearing? Public debate is one democratic fluid that should, whenever we can, we have the conditions to implement it, communicate with the associations of agricultural producers and with those who are opposers of this kind of thinking in the context of the policymaking of agricultural land, and other things related to agriculture, talked to them, talked to them. In the last 10 years, there has been one organization very often, (Zoran Krasic: NAED. Not NADED, Mr Krasic, but "100p plus", there was no one allowed in from the agriculture ministers, (National MPs speak out loud. Some weren't. I've been talking lately. I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, I'm trying to finish my sentence, but I'm always being interrupted, I don't know why, I'm probably interesting to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19174	I'm just asking that we respect our guest, so we don't interrupt him.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19175	I won't, long and I won't take your time. And there among the raspberries, which no one came to visit with 750 raspberries in Ariel, where the door was on the other side, and not behind, so that it could easily escape. So he talked to these people, and he kept talking about the problems that bother them. All this talk about changes and additions to the Agricultural Land Act, there's no near-agricultural association, and I haven't seen it, except for your shadow government, which has criticised the SAA. I don't know if you saw it, but a few days ago, a lady, I don't know her exact name now, I think it's Vidovic or something. I'd say by that statement that you've never had anything to do with the SAA. Why perhaps there hasn't been a public debate yet, because one part of the time I had to spend making sure that Serbia did not lose the water supply system for Morava. I had to deal with it together with the finance minister and the environment minister in order not to lose funds for the IP 2017/2018. The year because someone from Smederevska Palanka didn't carry out their duties. The state has allocated funds from the Water Budget Fund to compensate for the damage that could have occurred on this basis. I know that you have concluded this contract, and I know that at first you have settled your obligations, that you have been late, lost the power to settle obligations, why, how, and through which Serbia must never allow any project to make funds that come from the side in any way disputed. That's why we found a measure of intervention, and in the end, each of us is brought by voters. About me, about anyone in this room, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19176	The word has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19177	Thank you very much. On the subject of that call to learn something new or an opportunity to do it, Mr. Minister, the one who recommended it, he really had something to say on that subject, and he could learn what to learn, to follow that man a little more closely. For example, you could learn something useful and interesting from history, I don't know if you knew it, but he claims that during World War II in Germany it was a neo-Nazi regime, it's a very interesting thing and we could learn it and adopt it all together. If we had listened more carefully and had taken this seriously, we might also understand why our exposure begins with the words that they are against such a bill. He explained it in his own time. He said that the "yellow company" in his sight is professional and that he knows what he claims is always principled against what is useful for Serbian citizens, and there will never be "apriori" for or against what is harmful for Serbian citizens. So they're in principle at the point of view that they're against what's useful. For example, and against a law like this. Whether it's for or against something that harms them, they'll see it and think about it. What they showed us, unfortunately, is that when they think about it, they usually stick to those things that are harmful to the state. As for the issues of promise, that is, the results, that is to say, citizens form an opinion, based on them citizens form the measures of each of us, so those who have made a disaster in state finances, those who are personally responsible for hundreds of thousands of lost jobs, measures of about 2%, when they are collected into a pile, that if it is two figures, I think it is too ambitious today. Of those, Mr. Minister, you're right, you haven't lost the election, as long as the citizens are wise and while prices per result, of such losses anything is absolutely impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19178	The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19179	Thank you We heard here calling for results from the previous period and from the minister and from the SNS parliamentary club, so it is not bad to remind ourselves that during our time, as you say – from the Democratic Party, the subsidy was 14,000 dinars, so the SNS came to power and now farmers have a subsidy of 4000 dinars. You took away 10,000 dinars from every farmer. Mr. Nedimovic, I agree that you have won several elections as I have won and there are no problems, but you have said that the municipalities are guilty at the moment because they do not meet their obligations, the democratic party has only one, the only president of the municipality in Serbia, the president of the Paracin municipality, who is doing a great job. You need to see this with Alexander Vukic, because he was a candidate in 170 local self-government and now you need to send him to all 170 local self-government to do the job, as he was a candidate in 170 municipalities and cities. I would be very grateful, and I and the citizens of Serbia, since we are all affecting the financial situation in our budget in one way or another, is there an MP or MP here who may have damaged the stock reserves? What do we have, how much do we have and what do we have in our stock reserves? So that it may not be as the people say, they have eaten mice. Finally, I'm sorry that I don't have more time, as far as the results are concerned, for six years we had an affair "afla toxin", we had the price of 25 dinar grain, now it's 14 dinars, and I agree that you can't affect the market, but who will help these people who deal with agriculture and 1,200 young, educated experts who got fired and helped our farmers in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19180	Thank you. The word has Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19181	I understand that it's very difficult for someone to say that Alexander Vukic likes in every city in Serbia. I understand that he can't live with it, that he absolutely doesn't understand exactly why he's here where he is. It is proof that those things that are completely clear to the citizens of Serbia are not clear to him. That he's in pain, that's okay, but to defend himself so clumsyly, so he can say as some kind of counter argument, what is it, we have an excellent representative in a local self-government? Where does the very one where a couple of excellencies show that someone is irresponsiblely treating investors, who are trying to drive them away on all their mouths, insecurely, insinuate themselves? So, there's been talk today if someone's crazy about believing in something. What's foolisher, to put it this way, do they believe that such a campaign against the investors of water because they think it will reduce the good result that is being achieved today in the number of open workers of the city or hope that it will reduce that embarrassment and shame, that misery they left behind, that you're devastationing right with hundreds of thousands of lost workers? Do they think that such irresponsible behaviour towards investors, toward the companies that come here and that mean anything to our citizens will achieve anything positive for themselves? Completely wrong, completely missed, tragically and selfishly, ladies and gentlemen, and then they just locate their own representative in a local self-government who is trying to know and able to sabotage the arrival of a foreign investor, so selfishly that he doesn't even think about how much it would mean to the citizens of that place that he's getting old, so selfishly because he hopes that he'll keep them in his hands, blackmailing them for petty money, someone for a living, for a thousand, for someone for two thousand dinars, and thus safeguarding his authority. This selfishness, this ride, and this irresponsibility of images are also an opportunity for how they once, unfortunately, led all of Serbia. Sometimes, unfortunately, but from now on, never again, be sure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19182	Thanks, time. The word is Marko Parezenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19183	Thank you, President. Dear Ministers, respected colleagues, I knew that individuals in this hall understood well how to charge Smederjevska Palanka for three budgets, how to make a public business out of a football club, how to leave their citizens without sound drinking water, without public lighting, and how they understand how Serbia's interests are best protected, the fact that today we are adopting amendments to laws that need to prevent part of the negative effects that we have due to poor negotiation in the signing of the SAA, and how this negotiation was best said that Serbia was the only country that had no transitional periods and which long before entering the EU decided to allow the uncontrollable sale of the country to foreigners. The question arises whether there were any negotiations at all, or whether conditions were raised on the one hand, and on the other hand, the infancy government with even worse, then the president accepted absolutely everything, because when you don't have the real results with which you would advance in European integration, then you have to make some political decisions, and you're going to be courting yourself to make the impression that the country is progressing, and in fact there's no real results, and that's the best indicator, and we didn't have a state, and maybe it was about individuals coming in a magical way to a large area of fertile land, so they wanted to quickly, for the big money to sell that land. I think that this law in one quality way protects Serbia's interests, prevents uncontrollable sale of agricultural land to foreigners, and yet in a fair way to those foreigners who decide to live in our country for more than ten years to deal with agriculture, to have registered agricultural land, to have machinery, that these people can buy up to two hectares of land, and I think it's quite fair to those people who have decided to live in this country. There have been a lot of negative campaigns towards foreign investors, although these people who have talked about it well know that domestic businessmen, domestic entrepreneurs themselves cannot employ all the people in this country, that foreign investors from the EU employ more than 300,000 of our citizens. So, in a direct way, they provide salaries for 300,000 people, and in an indirect way for much more and perhaps these salaries are not very large, but they are certainly higher than in 2012, and this was best seen in the first two years of fiscal consolidation, when despite the difficult measures we did not have reduced public spending, that we had GDP growth above what was forecasted both by the fiscal council and by the World Bank. So in 2015, from -0.5%, we had 0.5%, ranging from 1.5% in 2016 to 2.7% at the end of the year. These forecasts are that we will be close to 3% and, amazingly, in the past few days we could see when the news of slow GDP growth emerged due to the drought, that individuals appeared, individual media who simply celebrated such news. We had bombistic, euphoric headlines in "Kurir", on N1, in "Today", among many opposition parties who could hardly wait for the news, because there may be no 3%, it may be a little less, but certainly there will be no -3, like when they ruled. Yesterday, my colleague from Cacak, otherwise known as Bosko Pernar, boasted several times, calling for Victor Orban. I think that's quite all right, but Victor Orban should also be praised when he talks about Serbia, when he says that up until a few years ago no one would have given Serbia a pair, that Serbia today had risen thanks to brave leadership. It is also particularly hypocritical when my Chacan counterpart attacks the SNS for the SAA, for the EU, there is almost no DOS leader with whom he did not hug, with whom he did not kiss and anything he did, entered the coalition, with one he entered parliament and several days ago and with another where he made a pact with Milan Stamatovic, who was part of the government that negotiated on the SAA, because it doesn't matter who signed it. The three governments participated in the negotiations from 2004 to 2008. I don't think anyone in Serbia knows today to state one statement from 2005, 2006, 2007 or 2008 in which Milan Stamatovic takes care of Serbia's interests, the interests of the peasants, the Serbian country, about the sale of the Serbian country to foreigners, and in the past few months he only talked about it. I got the impression he had a guilty conscience, that he was being haunted for being part of that government, but there's no need for that. Milan Stamatovic can sleep peacefully, because by amending this law we will prevent the uncontrolled sale of our country to foreigners and in a fair way allow those who want to live in this country to work. Finally, with this legal solution, we make sure that we motivate both foreign and domestic investors to invest in Serbia, because Serbia does not want to be a ghetto, isolated and quarrelled with the whole world, but rather open to the world, and I think that these are the reasons why this law should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19184	The word has the People's MP Marko Zeleg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19185	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us today a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land, which we, Members of the SNS, will unequivocally support in the day of the vote. This law is necessary for a number of reasons. The first reason is the need to align domestically, i.e. Serbian legislation with the SAA, and in a work relating to the acquisition of property rights over agricultural land that applies to foreign citizens in Serbia for foreign citizens right now when we are talking about private persons, it is not possible to obtain in its agricultural land, but this law allows it, with certain restrictions and precisely the meaning of this law, to provide land resources as the most important source of food production for a country. Another reason that is very important for Serbian citizens is the protection of the rights of farmers and the insurance of a Serbian farmer for reasons of the current incompetence of Serbian agricultural production with those farmers coming from EU territory. The period by which this law restricts the purchase and acquisition of property rights owned by foreigners will give sufficient time for the Serbian agricultural producer to reach a production level that can compete with EU producers and which are engaged in agriculture. The reason why a provision of this law restricting and restricting a time period in which EU farmers will not be able to obtain their own agricultural land is to allow for greater competitiveness of Serbia's producers. The reason we see in this period is that we expect an increase, as in this previous period, of gross national income and expect an increase in industrial production from which we will be able to increase the level of subsidisation of agricultural production in our country and allow greater competitiveness to Serbian producers. The third reason is the adoption of this Law for the purpose of introducing an institute of right to prevent purchase. With this decision, the Republic of Serbia gains the right to trade agricultural land when we have a case where a farmer who is a legal person wants to sell land to a foreigner. The Republic of Serbia, in this decision of the Law, not only enables the protection of agricultural land and agricultural land funds, but also its expansion and its development. Under the programme adopted by the local self-government unit, the State Land Fund is agreed upon by the resolution ministry, i.e. The Ministry of Agriculture, and on a programme of protection, regulation and use of agricultural land each year, land is offered in law for a period of one to three years. This programme allows all registered agricultural producers to compete, i.e. apply to state land and lease it for a certain number of years. According to the applicable legislation, the advantage over the bidding of agricultural land on state property is given to agricultural producers engaged in livestock farming and all agricultural producers that have based livestock production. It was allowed to receive one hectare at a basic price, so no bid to use it. The right to make purchases is also an institute that is being introduced here. All remaining land, which is not distributed, is then auctioned to all registered agricultural holdings and units of local self-government, along with the Ministry of the land fund, which currently holds a certain income. The income is divided in relation to the Ministry and local self-government units from 60% to 40% and according to the current Agricultural Land Act, these funds must be invested in the programme of arrangements, improvements and use of agricultural land on the unit of local self-government. In the case of the City of Belgrade, let me give you an example for the 2016 programme that was implemented, I'm not talking about the 2017 programme, for the reason it's not currently finished. The 2016 programme enabled farmers from Belgrade to meet and to rent some 2,000 hectares of agricultural land on the territory of a local self-government unit. The city of Belgrade has made a revenue of 20m dinars through the implementation and implementation of this programme, and these funds must, according to a valid legal decision, be invested in regulating and improving the use of agricultural land on the territory and the unit of local self-government from which the income has been achieved. Of these funds over the past year in the territory of the town's border municipalities, I am talking about Lazarevec, Mladenovac, Sopot, Surčino, the realisation of the arrangements of some 45, 46 kilometers of orientational untegorised atar roads for which these funds are intended. This law not only defines a time period in which a party, i.e. foreign citizens are not able to obtain land in property, but also define the amount of land they can possess after the legal provisions provided for in this proposal. During the debate on the bill, we had the opportunity to hear from other political actors on the other hand the various accusations that the SNS wanted to destroy the Serbian agricultural pillar. These charges come precisely from those who privatised almost all agricultural combinations and agricultural cooperatives in the territory of the Republic of Serbia from 2000 to 2012 and gave in to domestic and foreign owners. As an example of a poor privatisation, I would like to indicate the privatisation of the Agricultural Combined "Future of Dobanovci" and to point to the illegal functioning of the then ministry and the owner who bought the agricultural combination and this privatisation of the Republic of Serbia's budget has damaged nearly a billion dinars. Djuro Obradovic, who was not engaged in agricultural activity before entering the property of the combination, entered the property of the privatisation of the agricultural combination, bought a "Future of Dobanovci" agricultural combination, which today is called "BD Agro" for some 5.5m euros. The land he acquired by buying combinations is an area of 1800 hectares owned by combinations and another 4,000 hectares owned by the ministry in the use of combinations. Along with the combination, a farm of 2,000 head cows was purchased with all the accompanying machinery. The paradoxical situation is that the owner who bought the agricultural combination after his entry into the estate as director has appointed an assistant minister, then Prime Minister for the privatisation of Mr. Bubal, i.e. His assistant. After a period of time and between 14 April 2008 and 26 March 2010, an exchange of agricultural land owned by agricultural combinations with the ministry was made. Department of Agriculture Land. All of this would not be disputed if the agricultural land exchange was property belonging to the agricultural combination, but rather the combination gave to the land exchange ministry, which, by the previous decision of the Zemun City Municipality Commission, was granted in return to some other persons. The Commission, which took part in the decision-making of the Agriculture Administration itself, did not carry out a check at the RGZ and became convinced of the accuracy of the data, but granted the land "BD Agru", and the total damage caused to the budget by this exchange is, as I said, about a billion dinars. Activators of this exchange between the ministry and owners of "BD Agra" were detained at the end of 2015 in an already well-known action of the MUP action "Cresac" and an investigative procedure for such malversions is being conducted before the authorities today. It is only one in a series of privatisations that have been made and have damaged the Republic of Serbia's budget. I have to say that during the period when these combined privatisations were made, there were 60,000 people left without a job in Serbia who were directly related to the work of these agricultural combinations. In order to adopt this law in order to protect the land fund of agricultural producers and the interest of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to invite all MPs to support this proposal on agriculture and land regulation in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19186	The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19187	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honored Ministers Nedimovic with his associates, the Law on Agricultural Land is being directly governed by the planning, protection, regulation and use of agricultural land, supervision of the implementation of this law and other issues of importance for the protection, regulation and use of agricultural land as a good thing of general interest for the Republic of Serbia. The proposal to amend and supplement the Agricultural Land Act provides for conditions for the transport of private land. A Member State of the EU may acquire agricultural land in private property in the territory of the Republic of Serbia in a legal transaction with or without compensation provided that for at least 10 years at least it is kept in the local self-government unit in which the agricultural land is being trafficked and that the land in question is processed for at least three years with or without compensation. It is also established that the family holding holding holding has registered agricultural holdings in active status without interruptions for at least 10 years in accordance with the law governing agriculture in rural development, as well as that it owns machinery and equipment for the renewal of agricultural production. The subject of legal work may be agricultural land in private property, if not in accordance with the last law, as a building land, if it does not belong to protected natural goods, does not belong or is not bordered by strategic military complexes and protection zones. A citizen of EU member states may acquire up to two hectares in private property in the territory of the Republic of Serbia if all the conditions laid down by the law in question are met. The provisions shall not apply in the event of recovery of property, as they are carried out in accordance with the laws governing the return and confiscation of property to former owners. The Republic of Serbia has the right to prevent the purchase of private-owned agricultural land. The right to prevent purchases is approved by the Government on a proposal from the Commission. The Commission is educated by a joint minister in charge of agriculture affairs and by a minister in charge of finance affairs. The minister responsible for agriculture affairs and the minister responsible for finance affairs agree to apply conditions, deadlines, ways and procedures to prevent purchases. The adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act will establish specific conditions for the sale of the country and protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Ministers Nedimovic, the city of Leskovac headed by Mayor Goran Cvetanovic leads a very active and responsible agricultural policy. In line with the positive regulations, above all with the Law on Agricultural Land, the town of Leskovac has started making regular annual programmes in state property amongst the first ones. On the basis of built programmes, it successfully and neatly implements the process of issuing agricultural land in state property through public competition. On the territory of the town of Leskovac, one of the most discreet in Serbia, there are 144 catastrian municipalities with about 13,000 agricultural catastrian plots in state property, making and implementing the programme a very abundant job. So far, an area of 899 hectares has been issued, 98 contracts have been concluded and the total amount of the annual rent is about 89,000 euros. In 2014, 2015 and 2016, the town of Leskovac in its own participation, depending on the project or type of incentive, and up to 70% of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management implemented the following projects: the rehabilitation and arrangement of the atherian roads, the land, the deforestation of the old so far. Following a competition for the approval and use of incentive funds in the area of protection, planning and use of agricultural land in 2017, the town of Leskovac competed with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management with five projects in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Four projects were approved by the resolution ministry and contracts were signed on the allocation of funds. Contracts have been signed on the use of funds for the management of agricultural land by means of a total of four projects, construction and rehabilitation of Polish roads in the cohesion area, investment works in the area of comassessing, construction of a sewerage network, investment works in the comassembly, decommissioning of old so far in the cohesion area, and geodetic and technical works in the cohesion area in two cadastrian municipalities. Also this year, the town of Leskovac competed towards the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and the project of planning, revitalisation of some of the Polish roads in the area of the town of Leskovac, funds for financing this project and signing the contract are expected. Every year, in the end, and with the prior consent of the competent ministry, the town of Leskovac develops a programme of support for the implementation of agricultural policy and rural development policy. On the basis of the programme, the Financial Fund for the Development of Agriculture in the territory of the city of Leskovci provides a competition for the allocation of incentive funds to agricultural producers that have registered agricultural holdings and carry out agricultural production on the territory of the town of Leskovac. Finally, for the period from 2013 to 2017, there is no incentive in agricultural production. 125 million dinars have been allocated from the city's register. Dear Minister Nedimovic, all this I have stated in the discussion clearly points to one good and quality co-operation between the town of Leskovec, local self-government and the Ministry of Agriculture, forestry and water industry. When local self-government has energy, knowledge and capacity, as has the town of Leskovac, of course your ministry recognizes and achieves good agricultural practice, all in order to produce healthy and quality food and, of course, improve better and better quality life of agricultural producers. As a graduate agricultural engineer and a member of the Committee on Agriculture, I support your work, Mr. Minister, and the work of your ministry. In voting day, I will support the amendment and addition of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19188	Thank you. The word has a national letter from Studenka Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19189	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected colleagues, above all, I would like to point out that I strongly support the amendments to this law, as well as the efforts made by the Ministry of Agriculture to protect the Serbian country in the framework of the possibilities. I would point out, although it is already said that this is about private land which some Serbian host would possibly sell a citizen from EU countries. The introduction of conditions under which foreign citizens can buy the Serbian country protects national interests and ensures that customers are created in Serbia. So, once again, I point out that land in state property is not the subject of this debate. The conditions for buying private land in Serbia are for the buyer to process the country for at least three years, to have an active registered agricultural land for 10 years. He also has to own the right machines and equipment, and he can buy two acres at most. This is certainly another important step in the development of our agriculture. Since the old Yugoslavia, all agricultural revenues have been invested in the development of industry. The plan was to return later, when the industry fully developed that money to the agricultural branch. But it never happened. Today we are talking about a irrigation system whose construction began 10 days ago and we are talking about attracting people with capital from EU countries, all in a way that protects domestic interests. The law will prevent full liberalisation of agricultural land transport, as foreseen by the 2008 Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19190	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19191	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with the co-workers of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, today I will talk about amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act. In 2008, when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was adopted, the Republic of Serbia experienced an unprecedented fiasco. How? By causing nothing then, the signatories, whether they knew it or not, had just made a cardinal mistake in the Republic of Serbia. They signed free trade liberalisation, which no one who joined the EU today has done. In particular, I mean the land sale. Croatia has protected its country. A mass of countries, such as Hungary, Poland, none of them allowed free sale of their country, except the Republic of Serbia. Today we're talking about the improvement of this law, the changes and the changes, and on the other hand we hear disdain, that we haven't done anything. Not that we didn't do anything, but we did one hundred times to fix this nonsensus of the law. First, in 2015, we passed a new law and thus saved about 300,000 farms and 70% of the total small producers. Good for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Today we bring postulates concerning the protection of the land of the Republic of Serbia. In what way? First of all, we need to say that today we're talking about physical faces, about buying physical faces. First, in order to buy land in the Republic of Serbia, one must live in Serbia for 10 years without delay. Then, for three years, the country must work intensively, have a mechanism to process the country and ultimately have registered agricultural land. When those four conditions meet, it can only buy two acres of land. Someone respects us here what happens when a legal person buys land. First, it was not at all the subject of the talks today, and secondly, there are international agreements on such things, and thirdly, the Republic has the right to buy, then, it cannot be purchased by the country if it is near military facilities, we are absolutely protecting the property of the Republic of Serbia. What is important and what needs to be pointed out is that local self-governments have received plans to work out these plans in detail, which means – to list complete property, concrete land and hand it over to the Republic of Serbia. That's how we got from the local self-government 146,000 hectares that went from the gray zone to the regular one to the Republic of Serbia. Good for the government and the ministry. What's there to say? They honor us today that the law is wrong, that this is not good, that it is not good. How's it wrong? It is not good that in 2008, the laws on blanko, meaning free trade liberalisation, could be bought at that time, and was bought, 300,000 hectares of land per 200 euros, which would be 50m euros. Where did that money go, did the tax get paid? Imagine what's going on today, something that's been bought for 200,000 for 200 euros is being resold, 100 and 200 times more, shame. I must point out that in the period from 2008, when 400,000 workers were fired, today that number was reduced, it was 27% unemployment, today it was 13.5%, purposely they were destroyed combined, depreciated, so it disappeared from the 1990s to 2008, the PKK, huge giants, so Imlek, then Names, Frikom, a disgrace. Today, the PKK is transformed into a Peasant Work Cooperative that deals only with primary war and livestock production. I hope this never happens again, and the SNS has the honor and pleasure to work, as well as its coalition partners, for the sake of this country, and not against. In voting day, I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19192	Thank you, colleague Malusic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Prof. Shevarlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19193	Thank you. Although I support a good part of the discussion of the previous debater, or national MPs, I must draw attention to Article 107 that it is not true that a new Law on Agricultural Land was adopted in 2015, but it is called the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. Therefore, these are now for the second time the amendments and additions and the law that was in force before that. There's a director of the Land Administration here, and he knows very well when we held a public debate in the Alliance of Farmers, Engineers and Technicians. This is the problem that Serbia is the only country of all EU accession that regulates this issue with changes and additions, rather than with one new law. Also, another note. Since it was said that legal entities established in Serbia cannot be covered by the ban, it is not true. Look at the legislation of Austria, there legal persons established in Austria if foreign legal persons or foreign natural persons are majority owners, not even the only, but the majority, are treated as foreign firms and cannot enjoy the benefits enjoyed by domestic companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19194	Thank you, Professor, although this has been more of a replica than a violation of the Rules of Procedure, in particular Article 107, when it comes to violations of the dignity of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19195	If the wrong information is given that a new law has been passed, then that's it. I said I agree with most of the exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19196	I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? No, thank you. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19197	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 103 of the 7th and 8. This was an abuse of the Rules of Procedure. In such situations, it is rejected from the time of the parliamentary group, I do not know if they have time or do not have time. Mr. Chairman, I appreciate your tolerance for a sleeping member of the Committee on Agriculture, which also uses time to hurt the Rules of Procedure to give some criticism, etc., but there is a violation of dignity. So, the lecture is given to us by a sleeping member of the Committee who received 62,000 euros from Project STAR, which the minister knows. He was supposed to print 1,000 copies of his study on cooperativery, and then it collapsed theirs, by 62,000 euros, which is 62 euros. The summated parts of Ivo Andric are 3,400 dinars, and his one copy was supposed to cost 8,000 dinars. It's not a problem that he's gone, it's not sold out, I mean it's not even printed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19198	Do you want the National Assembly to plead? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19199	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the distinguished ministers with associates, let me say that yesterday and today you have endured not only certain criticisms, because they were not, but thank you for having endured certain false and insults that have been directed to you by certain political parties yesterday. I don't want to talk about this law much, because you're better and more professional than me to explain it yesterday, and today you've answered unsolicited questions. Allow only in two sentences, these amendments to the law are good in the given frameworks, especially good conditions that must be cumulatively met by EU citizens in order to obtain a private-owned agricultural land. That's what the position and the opposition agrees with, we haven't heard any remarks here yesterday or today on these terms. Mr. Minister, you're a witness to that. What I was shocked to read yesterday, because I read all the discussions of yesterday's House, which has been made false in this high-level House, which certain MPs, even the presidents of certain political parties and groups said about this law, and thus joined in the lies in certain tabloids that are doing, when it comes to this law, daily media attacks, both on the Ministry and on the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vukic, Minister of Interior Mr. Stefanovic, Minister of Military Alexander Vulin and the Chief of BIA Bratislava Gasic, and very often the President of the National Assembly Maja Gojkovic. What never in the history of this Parliament, as a historian, I tried to enter, has not happened, and this has happened these days, that false and lying never in the recent history of 1805 until today have not attacked state institutions such as BIA, such as the Army, lies and falses in certain tabloids, and such as the MUP. That's what concerns the citizens of Serbia, and I guess our MPs too. What lies were made yesterday when this law was at stake? First of all, the truth is that this law does not protect natural goods, you did, and you answered it. The truth is, this law hasn't ruled out restitution, and it is, it says in the law. It's the third one here that legal persons can be buyers of agricultural land, and they can't. It is true that the government of the Republic of Serbia has budgeted 4% of GDP growth for 2017, and it is not, but 3%. I ask Mr Balša Bozovic, who is not here, to apologize publicly, not to us, but to the citizens of Serbia, if it is a lapus, and if not, let him do whatever he wants. The next lie is that this government and your ministry have done nothing about the irrigation system. It is a pity that the presidents of the municipalities and the regional secretaries have said this year, and you have done very much, this year 50,000 ha of irrigation systems and 11 systems that will be in use of the next spring seed. The last lie I registered was that the processing market was destroyed by you, this and the previous government, and the truth is that Mr. Labus destroyed it when he declared trade liberalisation and when there was a mass termination of the work of food products. What matters, Mr. Chairman, is why it's done. This is important. Certain individuals, whether owners, such as Mr Rodic, or employees of certain tabloids, when it comes to this law, are leaders of some opposition groups, such as Sasa Jankovic, Sasa Radulovic called the bankruptcy king, Bosko Obradovic called the Lupeti, Dragan Sutanovac called the kidnapper, or certain professional analysts, such as Djordje Vukadinović called Vlah or Vlahočević, individual actors such as Sergey Trifunović called "pisanovic" because he said he would piss on the president's grave and individual academics, such as Dusan Teodorovic, or the escape of the two parties, are poisoning citizens of the Republic of Serbia with false and media attacks to the limit. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you object to us that no criticism is allowed, and you forgot this. You complain as much as you want, but it's weird that the university professors who don't know that the criticism is based on the truthfulness of the facts, not on the media attacks. Therefore, social criticism and even allowed criticism of the authorities are socially beneficial, and it seems healing. (Gordana Comic: What about Marxist criticism? · Global Voices Please calm down, it's embarrassing, it's ma'am, but you calm her down.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19200	Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19201	They won't stop me from saying this, I can do as much as they want. Mr. Chairman, there is a huge difference between criticism and media attacks, insurmountable. The criticism consists of the truthfulness of the facts, and media attacks on false things like these in this law. Mr. Chairman, this law is good, within given frameworks the SNS will support it. But, Mr. Minister, don't expect these untruths to stop, they'll be harder and stronger whenever you, as minister or president of the state, cut the tape or eventually lay a cornerstone. Don't worry about it, the citizens recognized it very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19202	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the law from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19203	The word is Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19204	Dear Chairman, I'm glad you're back. I hope you'll return some order to the session, given that the vice president who replaced you has avoided warning the previous speaker of any insults he has brought to the expense of a series of opposition leaders, but that's not what the problem is. The problem is that the advances are only brave and strong when there is no one to answer them. And it's easy to be brave and strong when you have 100% media space, when in six years you don't go out on any direct television duel and then you pretend to be a big politician, that you have great support for the people and that you're something very strong and strong, and you've never actually participated in any direct television debate, you've never had a confrontation between the authorities and the opposition. The government has no last Thursday of the month to answer parliamentary questions. There are none of the sessions on the topic we asked for when ministers would have to come and answer the question of MPs. So it's that courage of the SNS, to attack when someone can't answer you. And that, I think, is also the best picture of the MPs Mark Parezenović and Mark Atlagic, who, while adding to the leader of their party and hanging his photos in their apartments and houses, thinks that we are returning in time to Joseph Broz Tito, when you can attack, prosecute and harass people without anyone answering for it. So, I don't think there's any reason for that. We have put out here a very constructive review of this law. This law simply works for foreign tycoons and foreign interests. And if you have a problem facing the truth that you are not working for the interests of Serbian citizens, but for the EU, it is actually what you try to hide by attacking opposition leaders.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19205	Thank you. I assume you've replicated Mark Atlagic. Right?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19206	That's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19207	I understand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19208	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I really did not insult anyone. One daily on 14 April 2011 -- police comb the bankruptcy king Saša Radulovic. Excuse me. Another prominent magazine published by Bosko Obradovic in the Serbian Parliament on 25 November 2016 to Aleksandr Maksimovic. The next paper says, "Strength all the time," so to read, day, second, you know very well that I won't talk by heart. Bosko Obradovic also knows that Balša Bozovic, whom I quoted yesterday. I now call on him to apologize for saying that growth is 4% of GDP, and 3% is in the budget, not me, but the citizens of Serbia. It is an insult to the government of Serbia and this House of Highs, the Assembly and the minister, regardless of who Nadimovic is sitting here, and his ministry. For every nickname a day, a second, but it's not true that we don't allow criticism. I'm sorry the previous speaker wasn't in the O.R. Criticism is not what media attacks and verbal attacks are all about. The criticism is based on the truthfulness of the facts, and everything else is the media attacks that you do every day, through certain tabloids. Never in history, I repeat, since 1805, as a man of the profession, let me be denied by a historian, are state institutions attacked as the last days by the Army of Serbia, the MUP, the BIA, not the people inside.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19209	Thank you. There's more replicas. First Vladimir Orlic to respond.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19210	There's no courage or opportunity to answer, is there? Well, he answered how he knew and knew, the one who was particularly interested in that question. And courage, how much courage does it take, ladies and gentlemen, not to fall upon someone who's weaker or who's not in a position to respond without your target being a 10-year-old? How much courage do you have to take down a ten-year-old who is also a migrant, who is not guilty of anything, leaving his hometown in Afghanistan, which, as it were, led him to Serbia? How much courage do you have to take on that child who was a good friend, a good man, what does it look like on this planet today only children are, so, with the luxury of drawing talent, it has made an exhibition of beautiful drawings, of its drawings to help another, a boy who, of course, got media attention from Serbia? The fact that because of this media attention, he was able to meet Alexander Vukic, someone with great courage, apparently, was enough to treat that ten-year-old boy with a disdain. Is this a relationship with those who are strong enough to answer us, they have opportunities? Is that heroism, is that humanity? Will such examples teach us these phenomena? Nothing more on the subject of courage on this should be added. As for the photos that are held around the houses, whoever allows himself this level of lowness and inhumanity can, as far as I'm concerned, keep in his house whatever the photograph he wants, but in one thing I'm sure, he took the mirror out of that house. A shameful sight from the mirror couldn't stand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19211	Bosko Obradović, you have a replica of Mark Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19212	Thank you very much, Chairman. I, of course, always ready for the replica and the exchange of thoughts with the representatives of the authorities, can only say that thanks to Mr Mark Atlagic, we have been able to discover the mechanism of functioning the current government. It is a very important discovery for the citizens of Serbia and for the entire public. So the system works the next way. Tabloid or party note SNS, the type "Informer" or Pinka, calls you, labels you, attacks you, defamations you most, without any evidence, and then Mr. Marko Atlagic comes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and calls for the authority of something that his party note SNS said that day or earlier, printed or published on television or in the daily newspaper. So, an interesting mechanism of functioning the SNS through the party's ballots muds its political opponents and leaders of the opposition, and then that the MPs of the authorities are calling for the party's ham of tabloid, the worst propaganda of the ruling regime as an authority that is probably the truth about events in Serbia. Never "Informer" and Pink can be true about anything in Serbia. They are the worst propaganda texts in the world. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19213	Ambassador, please refrain. Resist such an assessment of the media in Serbia, refrain because I must allow other MPs, then, to express their opinion on other media in Serbia. That won't get us anywhere. They'll take us, but in the wrong direction. So if you can say the line without insults or low blows to anyone, especially the media, then do it. If not, let's move on. (Bosko Obradovic: Let's try it. I'm not sure. We're not gonna have any repairs out of this. I think you've said enough. The president exists to make order in parliament, not to encourage MPs to create chaos in parliament. [[Bosko Obradovic: So I have no right to replica in the length of two minutes?]] (Bosko Obradovic: It is called a verbal delict. What's it called? (Bosko Obradović: Verbal Delict. The Verbal Delicate? I don't think you have any idea what a verbal delinquent is. (Bosko Obradovic: I know you turned off my microphone. That's a verbal delinquent? (Bosko Obradovic: You are making it impossible for me to speak. You shut me down... ) Okay, a five-minute break, to calm down and see who wants to talk from the MPs about the agenda point, says Parliament Speaker. (Bosko Obradovic: I don't know who's restless. You won't yell at me. Your violence is over my head. (Bosko Obradovic: I know that you are in direct transmission. I'm not on direct transmission. (Bosko Obradovic: I seek my right that you have taken from me. ) The picture speaks more than words, believe me. (Bosko Obradovic: The fact is that you took my word and shut me down. You can warn me, but you can't shut me down, if I've offended someone, if I've said something wrong, you punish me, get me out of the session, but to rule out my ability to speak, you can't. I didn't insult anyone. If you're defending Informer and Pink... ) I do not defend anyone, I do not want to say my opinion on "Kuru" etc. So you see how you want this to go the other way, and I just don't want it. I play nice. You're so nice, so classy and decent, you want to talk about it, and I'm the kind of actress that you said I was, like, being nice, I'm not. I want you to talk about the agenda point. It's a conflict of opinion. (Bosko Obradovic: It's okay, but when it's over for another 30 seconds. Now you sit down, since I give you my word I won't be safe. I want to make order, and I don't want punishment, if you continue I'll punish, my God. It says in the Rules of Procedure, I didn't make up anything new. So, I move on to the debate on the agenda, don't ask me anything, the Rules of Procedure say who decides on the replicas of the point, item 3. Read by the end of the term of office. Diana Vukomanovic, if she wants to talk about the agenda point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19214	Thank you, President. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, respected citizens, respected agricultural producers, while we are today discussing amendments and additions to the Law on Agricultural Land desolation of the Serb village. Over 2,000 rural communities no longer have a living soul, they are nursing households, a labour force that was numbered in the early 21st century by about 530,000 people today have slightly less than 300,000 people. Then, the machinery is over 20 years old. The average size of the rural agricultural land is three hectares. We're talking about two acres here. Here, and in the media, it is produced to protect Serb oracles by changing and supplementing this law. Let's be precise and say that foreigners who can potentially decide and want to buy a Serbian country and become its owners are not a danger to Serbian oracles, according to Serbian oracles is the main danger of basketing, city, floods. If you already wanted to use the copy paste system, copy and paste copies of models from EU member states, you could have given more effort, say, to plant windscreens in Vojvodina in the way Hungary did from Segedin through Budapest to Vienna. I mean, we are slowly learning from other countries, including the EU countries that come from the same environment in Eastern Europe. I would simply also point to something that is actually a potential collateral damage to such legal solutions. My colleague Jesic mentioned the names Hans, Joseph, Pierre, I would add because of women's equality with Matilda, Kristina, Jozefina, who live there somewhere in the EU and do not think about coming to Serbia, but what about those who are foreign citizens who may be called Petrovic, Jovanovic, what about the children of our Gustarbitters who live there? Perhaps in 10 years, in five years, over three years, because of some economic crisis, children and grandchildren of our Gustrabiters will want to come to the country, return, and in some circumstances only have EU citizenship, they do not have Serbian citizenship. So we're making it extremely difficult for them. Why didn't you come up with such legal solutions as that? in this investment hiduciju, where political will, discreetly decides who will invest in Serbian agriculture, why you did not encourage members of our diaspora to invest to a greater extent in Serbian agriculture. I would like to remind you that annually, from our diaspora, Serbia gets about 2.8 billion euros, in the decade since 2000, these are World Bank data, by 2010, $43 billion has arrived in Serbia in the form of signs, everything has been $550m invested in the Serbian economy. I mean, why don't the members of our diaspora who don't have citizenship, their descendants encourage some different microcredits, microprograms to come to the country. So if now some typical European bureaucrat from Brussels is watching this, he's going to call this a technical term. This is economic nationalism. So, from the point of view of science, economic science. From the point of view of the cost-benefit analysis, we know that Serbian capitalists who have Serbian citizenship, who are our citizens, will benefit directly from such legal solutions because they will continue to buy the Serbian country and Serbian bogeyman. But I'd say you strategically really need to think about which direction the Serbian economy is headed. I will agree with my colleague Stojmirovic, who said you might be the minister of the most powerful ministry. It would really be if budget payments were not less than five percent, at least five percent of Serbia's total budget, but members of the ruling coalition, and perhaps most politicians in Serbia are actually ashamed of their peasant genes. I don't know why we're designing our economic policy in such a way that we no longer potential agriculture. We were very good at agricultural production, in livestock, we were never so good at the automotive industry. So you need to think very carefully why you systematically neglect agriculture when this people want to work, they want to stay on their land. I've already told you that nearly 2,000 villages die. So it can be, it just won't, because strategic development is misthinking, Serbia's economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19215	The word has the Soul Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19216	Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable ministers with associates, dear fellow MPs, today I will talk about amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act as well as the reasons for its adoption. The reasons for the amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act are contained in Article 63. The Act approving the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Community and their Member States. The new draft law lays down the conditions for the acquisition of agricultural land in the private property of EU citizens in accordance with the current Stabilisation and Association Agreement, between the European Communities and all its Member States and on the other hand the Republic of Serbia. The basic amendments and additions to the existing Agricultural Land Act, which are also given in the proposed amendments, are contained in Article 72j. I would not, as well as my many colleagues who spoke more precisely yesterday and today about the essence of these changes, but I would like to say the following why we are actually discussing today, the previous two days, why we are discussing and why it is necessary to amend the Law on Agricultural Land. Our task is to correct the predecessor's mistakes, to correct those mistakes made ten years ago when the adoption of the SAA, which I remind it, was signed on 29 April 2008. So neither Alexander Vucic wrote that text at the time, nor agreed with international officials, were those who are now hiding in the mice' holes. We had a press conference yesterday at which the current MP from the time, from the period of the doss, did not deign to answer the question to the press, did it and why the SAA was poorly negotiated? That's why we're here today at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to correct these very mistakes, the old mistakes, the mistakes of the mistakes. The bill promoter really took care of all the details. The law included all those cumulative mechanisms, in line with the good practice of some EU countries. Also, all these good examples have been incorporated in this proposal for existing amendments to the given law. So similar mechanisms are many countries that have been candidates involved in their legislation. We are actually adopting this law because we want to protect the interests of the Serbian peasant, but also the interests of the Republic of Serbia. So it really took care of everything, all the details, that potential customers should be resistant to specific local self-government when buying certain agricultural land, then having registered active agricultural land, means not what is in passive composition, which is passive status, but what is active, which is really processed and produced by agricultural products, then having its own mechanism. Also, we predicted exactly that a stranger could buy land at a certain height, that height is two acres, so the object of the purchase could be a land of up to two hectares. That the legislator really took care of all the details, he says, in these proposals, he has incorporated certain security aspects. For example, the subject of purchase cannot be land belonging to and bordered by military facilities, military complexes, military polygons. In fact, a stranger cannot buy land located near military polygons, because we simply want to satisfy that security aspect. Another control mechanism is included in this amendment to the Agricultural Land Act, is the right to prevent the purchase of agricultural land in agricultural property. This right actually has a Republic of Serbia, and a commission has been formed that approves of the purchase of the government. The commission is comprised of restoring ministries of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance. So it was considered true that we, as a country that is a candidate for EU membership, are really protecting ourselves and in all ways not allowing absolute liberalisation of the agricultural land market. As I have already said, the Agreement, reminders, for the sake of truth and for the reminder of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SAA was signed away on 29 April 2008, we have a full ten years since the application of this international treaty. I remind you, the SAA has the power of an international contract, it's just below your constitution. By adopting it itself in the Assembly and its ratification, it becomes an integral part of domestic legislation and a source of domestic law. We have had the opportunity to listen in these two days to why you have not changed the SAA, you have been able to change the SAA, and I remind you, all changes in the SAA require the consent of all EU member states. One elegant solution is just that. We cannot change the SAA, but we can amend the Agricultural Land Act and simply align that transitional deadline that exists in it, which expires on 1 September 2017. So, the conclusion is that the SAA is poorly negotiated, that ten years ago it was made to a pre-election campaign for the 2008 elections and that we are today correcting what DOS authorities signed, which is being committed on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When we were simply in that DOS government that was, to get back a little bit in 2008, they had two policies. They had one policy on the international agenda and another policy aimed at internal policy, while others told citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you, he wasn't in power then, Alexander Vucic and SNS, we didn't negotiate on the SAA, we didn't commit to total liberalisation of agricultural land. This was done by someone else, who is now hiding from their responsibilities and obligations to whom they have committed their bargaining and signing. They have committed themselves to making a very important international agreement. I agree with my colleague, Vlad Orlic, who says that this law is what we do two good things. First, these solutions are really useful for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, we meet international obligations as one responsible state, one responsible authority. With this legal solution, we are correcting all those shortcomings in the SAA by protecting the interests of the Republic of Serbia, above all, but also the interests of Serbian farmers and the interests of Serbian orcs. By amending the Law on Agricultural Land, we do not want to prevent foreign investors, domestic or foreign investors from coming, but rather, we want to prevent that unequal position, that monopoly position that some of the tycoons in Serbia had. It's about a unfair market game and selling these few remaining agricultural combinations into depravity so that some of them can get their hands on and get their hands on agricultural land. Here I think of all those who, in an easy way, have, past the procedure, come past the public through the privatisation process since 2000, owned by more than 120,000 hectares of the most quality Serbian oracles. With this law, we do not want to ban any new company and any new investor from investing in Serbia's agriculture. On the contrary, agriculture is one of the most important development branches in the Republic of Serbia. A significant part of GDP is from agriculture, so we want to open the door to all domestic and foreign investors who want to invest in the area of agriculture. Agriculture is our development opportunity, and it is this new investment in agriculture that I see also a simple opportunity and a chance to introduce new technologies, to modernise agriculture, to conquer new markets for products produced on the Serbian country, but also to actually open up a chance to create new jobs. I agree with Minister Nedimovic that we must not and that we cannot make laws according to individuals. We have to make laws that are just the same for everyone. The Serbian Progressive Party is right now doing a different policy and no more law-making on the scale of one individual and one tycoon. The laws are the same for all, the laws must be respected, no matter who the sphere of society comes from. Everyone has to fight today in their place under the sun. If we are really serious and if we really want to join the EU, then we must earn our place on the market, but it is also in the country to do its part of the job. It is in the state to create a favourable environment so that farmers who produce in this country, owners of agricultural land, can live off their fields and on their oranics. The results of the government in the previous period and the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and Water Management are really impressive and we had examples in the media to see really great interest, above all for the purchase of new machinery, new tractors. We had rows of farmers who were really ready to replace their old-fashioned technology with new machines and new machinery. The problems in agriculture are piled up, but also in all segments of society. Those piled up problems have to be solved. I truly support the efforts of the current current current minister, who, together with GIZ and NAED, launched one project, increasing opportunities for seasonal workers, was signed on 17 August 2017, so this year only a few days ago and the Memorandum of Cooperation, because we want to get more than 100,000 workers out of the gray zone. Research has shown that 65% of these seasonal workers are just seasonal workers working in agriculture. Like I said, there are a lot of accumulated problems, it takes time for all these problems, we don't have a magic wand to get rid of them overnight. Finally, I would like to say this to my opposition colleagues, I really recommend a publication that you can find on the European Integration Ministry site, which is myths about the EU. I really understand the need for the work of the Serbian opposition, since we all belong to certain political parties, certain movements, we are really fighting daily for the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Every voter and every vote is important to us, and in this political struggle, we often use every means to reach that voter, that vote. Part of the Serbian opposition is just using all these funds to get its hands on support, as support is not obtained so easily and just part of the Serbian opposition is using myths and stereotypes about the EU, that foreigners will buy everything that is Serbian, that they will stop producing brandy, that we will not produce false cucumbers and curved carrots, then stereotypes that exist on pig's skin, that we will stop producing Serbian products, such as futotic cabbage, homolic honey, pyrotic cheese. In the same situation, just to remind you, there were also numerous candidates who are now full members of the EU - Croatia, Romania and Bulgaria. I had the opportunity to, as a member of the Committee on European Integration, indeed have many meetings with my colleagues from the Croatian Parliament, just as Mrs Jadranka Kosor told me about the situation in which Croatia came before its accession to the EU in 2013. It was just part of NGOs and part of the opposition in Croatia that talked about these myths and stereotypes, that Croatians would stop producing cheese and cream, that no wine would be produced, which made Croatia known. As we know, Croatia has entered the EU and all that remains at the level of stories and myths. I understand the opposition in Serbia, because the opposition in Serbia is like the one holding on to straws to avoid sinking, but for the sake of the truth and for the sake of the public I want to order from this place all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to all agricultural producers, which is to be calm when it comes to buying and stealing agricultural parcels, to be calm when it comes to the Serbian country and Serbian orans. At the very end, the SNS will support any amendments to the proposed law in the voting day. I call on my fellow Members of Parliaments and MPs and on the other side who were part of the DOS regime, who have adopted the Stabilisation Association Agreement, which the old parts of DOS have survived, and these new ones that have recently entered the National Assembly, to support these reserves and to support these amendments to the Agricultural Land Act, because indeed this law overcomes politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19217	The word has the People's MP Djordje Vukadinović, minute and 47.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19218	I don't know what I'm going to use all this time on, but I'm going to say that the previous chairman broke the Rules of Procedure by allowing MP Atlagic to insult all the representatives of the opposition, and, too...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19219	You didn't get a line from the MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19220	It doesn't matter. I can use my minute and a half as I please. Ma'am, you've violated the chairman's...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19221	There, it's me, and I'm not. What do we do now? You have a minute and 47 to talk about amendments to the law on the agenda, you don't have a replica. I'm not going to argue with you, if you want to talk and discuss the subject that got you a word and you signed up, 47 of you are on the list. [[Jorje Vukadinović: No microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19222	So, how come we're so afraid of this little time that we have at our disposal? You know it wasn't fair of you to deny us the replicas, but it doesn't matter, I don't insist on it. It is too important to spend on pointless replicas, accusations, and insults. Believe that we can do the same. I ask the minister very briefly, in this time, I want a concrete but not political response, and I know he's good at both, because he's been through good schools politically, he was a good mayor. Why wasn't there a public hearing? Perhaps we would crystallize good proposals both by the authorities and by the opposition. I would like to vote and vote for this amendment and fellow Socialists, which says it is very reasonable that no agricultural land is alienated in this border zone under any conditions, it is a matter of security from the country. A very good amendment, there's no reason not to support it. Our amendment is very good, and I think it's on the line of what's the intensity of the promoter, that it doesn't bond in this way like you do in some way transparently make it difficult or make it impossible to buy land and we suggest you give it 10 years after we get in, so if we ever get in 10 years after we get in. It's a much more elegant solution and it's not so transparent where we condition them all and everything, and we're actually really preventing any purchase from happening. After all, it's not a Serb orna and it's not a Serb land that's threatened by this Hans Pierre, who's going to take two acres, but we're preventing some of our Pera, Mika, Zika, from selling two acres to a stranger and getting some money. In fact, it's jeopardizing our small manufacturer, and the big foreign mechanics, as well as the domestic tycoons, will buy thousands and thousands through the company as they've bought so far. That's, say, two, three basic questions. The last thing, an appeal to your colleagues in power, save the PKK, no matter who picks up the kamak, don't let the PKK sell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19223	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic. I'm sorry, George Komlenski minute and 49.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19224	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, MP Group Movement of Socialists of the People's Peasant Party, the United Peasants Party will support any proposed legislative changes, which this law covers. It refers to amendments to the Agricultural Land Act. In fact, a lot has already been said too much about the CAP, as it has come to this, I would not want to talk about it at this stage, the SPP is unfortunately something that exists, something that this country commits, but it does not say that it can be extended at this point in time to apply the agreement that this state has verified and recognised, but says that within a period of four years, this period will expire on 1 September, harmonize its legislation in terms of how, in which way, only natural and legal persons at the moment, the EU citizen can acquire property on agricultural land in the Republic of Serbia. This is a solution for me is a good solution, giving enough time, a period of 10 years is long enough to do something that can be very important in the future, and that is to create conditions for the real realization of the right to prevent buying, but I will talk about it later and for that reason, we will support these legal solutions, though, some other solutions that are not at this point would be far acceptable to us and far closer to the heart. Do you have to? It must be regrettable. The state of Serbia is a serious country that has taken on commitments, even by those who have done it out of various interests, and most personally, poorly negotiated, must respect them and end them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19225	Time, I apologize. I imagined it. The word is Radovan Jancic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19226	The President-in-Office, I thank you, the honourable Members of the People, the honourable ministers, allow me to begin by expressing my personal satisfaction and satisfaction to many farmers, because it has finally begun with the construction of a irrigation system, with the hope that it will find its place in this truly capital facility, the project also Northern Banat, i.e. Novi Knezevac, Choka and Kikinda. It would be a new regional system and would cover a new 25,000 acres. During this two-day debate, almost everything was said and when the agreement was signed, which he signed, how he negotiated and since it was applied. The nearness of this September 1st ordered us to discuss in these two days the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land in the voting day, and when we adopt it we fully fulfil our international obligation, and we primarily protect the interests of our country and our farmers. Why is Serbia so far the only member, a potential EU member who has committed to selling the country to foreigners before gaining EU membership, unlike most countries, without a requirement for a transitional period? We will not get an answer, and in the course of these two days we have not received it even from those who have negotiated the Agreement, who have signed it and ratified it. Before EU accession, many countries, such as Poland, Slovenia, Hungary, Romania, Croatia, faced similar problems in agriculture, low subsidies, outdated technologies, low yields and much more. Under such conditions, the country's EU accession required an extension of the ban on agricultural land sales. As with us, in these countries, the liberalisation of the agricultural land market is expected with much anxiety from the owners of agricultural land, but also from the general public. Based on this kind of SSP, there is no such thing as a delay in our case. Under the leadership of the SNS and its president and Serbian President Alexander Vukic, Serbia is today a neutral, independent and proud country, absolutely independent in making all decisions, including this bill. This bill has been drawn up to the extent and needs of our citizens, it has been established in due time, fulfils the international obligations and protects the interests of our farmers, especially if we correctly interpret what is written. A national of an EU Member State can acquire agricultural land if it is settled in a local self-government unit for at least 10 years. In all other restrictive conditions prescribed by a new member of the law, Article 72ð will only or only two hectares in ideal conditions become owners after 2027. In the end, I just want to say that whoever for a handful of dollars or worse, for a handful of kuna, who sold his soul to the devil, tells us, members of the SNS, that for any interest, we're going to sell our father and mother, we can't say that. Many of us do not have our parents for a long time, yet it is just an example of ignorance, pride, insolence, and insolence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19227	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19228	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected ministers, fellow Members, I hope that today's debate will contribute to all aspects of the amendments and addition of the Agricultural Land Act, and thus allow all potentials that we have not used for long-term wrong land policy to function in the economy and Serbia's society as a whole. To remind ourselves, previous changes to the Law on Agricultural Land have been made to create opportunities for improving agriculture through the growth of agricultural land investments owned by the Republic of Serbia, regulating long-term leases in such a way as to ensure the needs of self-employed tenants interested in the processing of land, removing deficiencies and restrictions that prevent overall efficiency in the management of agricultural land, the precision of the right to pay, the sale of agricultural land in the state property of natural persons, the introduction of an advanced search of data on agricultural land, the regulation of deadlines and sanctions for the non-region of an annual programme for the protection and promotion and use of agricultural land advertising and public calls, the provision of monetary sanctions for the illegal use of land, the introduction of the law of law of field books and the implementation of fertility, the possibility of free use of agricultural land, which is not paid for agricultural land. I would particularly refer to legal solutions that strengthen financial and organisational discipline in local self-government. They must act in accordance with the law in order to initiate agricultural activities on certain parcels and ensure that actual agricultural land is used under the conditions for which it has been issued. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that it is not often handled. Unfortunately, former Sokobanje leaders, where I come from, of 5,266 hectares of state-owned agricultural land, issued only 88 hectares in 2016. That's what's official. How much usurped agricultural land they know best. They made only 2,300 euros in revenue. The number of parcels on this surface is 5,691, which indicates the depravity of the plots and does not take over and do not carry out the commercial action. The average area of the plot is below one hectare. This local self-government awaits a very serious and responsible approach to solving the inherited situation, on which the current leaders are working largely and the first results in the resolution of the ataric roads worth seven million dinars are already seen. Today, the reason for the adoption of new amendments and the addition of the Agricultural Land Act is precisely an international obligation through Article 63(2). The law confirming the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the EU and Serbia. This law allows agricultural land in private ownership of EU citizens to acquire up to two hectares maximum if they meet the following conditions cumulatively – that ten years are continuously populated on the local self-government unit in which agricultural land is trafficked, that at least three years of agricultural land subject to legal work, that it has registered agricultural land in an active status for at least ten years, and that it owns machinery and equipment for carrying out agricultural production. It is important to point out that the right to interfere with the purchase of private agricultural land has a Republic of Serbia, which is approved by the Government on a proposal from the Commission, which is being educated by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance. This prevents the full liberalisation of agricultural land transport and the defence of the interests of the Republic of Serbia. In voting day, I will certainly support this law, as well as my colleagues from the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19229	Thank you, colleague. You have received a report from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which found that by the appearance of the death of MP Miroljub Stankovic, the case referred to in Article 88 paragraph 8) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, and suggests that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88, 3 and 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. Pursuant to Article 88(1), point (8) and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the selection of MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, finds that the term of office had ceased before the end of the time on which it was elected to MP Miroljub Stankovic on the day of his death. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, the vacancy in the National Assembly will be completed. The word is a folk letter from Stanislava Janošević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19230	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, respected fellow citizens, here, today is the second day and the debate on the Law on Agricultural Land. First of all, what I think is crucial, which we must bear in mind when proposing all the laws, and at this point in the area of agriculture is in harmony with the Constitution. In this case, the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law has confirmed that the Republic of Serbia is regulating and ensuring sustainable development, a system of protection and improvement of the environment, as well as protection and improvement of the plant and animal world. Let us be reasonable and honest with each other and be convinced that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is leading the interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia by fulfilling all international obligations. What is most important, in my opinion, in the proposal of this law, is that some natural, or legal person from abroad, mainly refers to EU citizens, have an opportunity on land in our Republic, but only if they are resident and pay taxes on the territory of a local self-government unit and during a period of 10 years, have registered agricultural land in that territory for a period of three years and are indeed engaged in agriculture, not just fictitically in that activity. Something that gives me great confidence in the work of your ministry, Mr. Nedimovic, and what you have shown and proved by your work so far is the following. My colleagues, if you remember, only a few months ago, we passed a law, or agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Abu Dhabi Development Fund. I remember very well how you commented on this agreement, pouring wood and stones. I'm guessing it's the only model you have when all the bill proposals are on the agenda. Well, you see, I already see the positive consequences of that agreement. In early August of this year, works on the two-purpose Medja system began. Minister Nedimovic, with Zrenjanin's leaders, as well as the Municipality of Zitište, visited these works in the small village, in the Mediterranean Management District, at the border with Romania. Thank you for finally looking at me and helping her. This irrigation project will allow 762 hectares in the territory to be taken care of. This national programme will implement 11 such projects. In the populated town of Međa, it is a really big shift and a 17km canal is formed that will be used for deforestation, but also for irrigation. In this way, we have taken care of the problem of droughts that our fellow citizens who deal with agriculture and live exclusively on agriculture. Do you remember, gentlemen, what happened to Meja, not that far away in 2005, when you left her immersed in the water, when you fired the dam on Tamis? Well, with this move, it wouldn't have happened to Maji in her sleep. Thank you, Minister. Thank you to your associates. Thank you to the entire government of the Republic of Serbia for having everything in mind. This is really a phenomenal example of your dedication and endurance and I trust you. I will uphold the law and the bill of this law, as well as all my colleagues, which I call upon them to do. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19231	Thank you, colleague Janošević. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19232	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, this law is one of the most important that our Republic of Serbia is making to meet the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. However, we must be extremely careful, because no one wants too much liberalisation of this so important area of our country's economy. It is exactly countries like Poland, Hungary and Slovenia that have shown that the total release of this area is not what they need. The best example of how to solve this problem was Poland. During EU accession negotiations, Poland managed to obtain a transition period for acquiring property over agricultural land by foreigners for a total of 12 years. The law on land acquisition by foreigners provided that non-EU citizens can buy land under the conditions provided for by this law if they are granted permission by the Ministry of Economy and Rural Development, as well as the opinion of the Ministry of Economy and Rural Development. The same rule applies when a stranger wants to acquire capital by buying a company. So the Poles passed a rigorous Land Act in favour of domestic landowners and thus protected their domestic farmers. By amending and supplementing the Law on Agricultural Land, we must try to limit the number of those who could compete for our Serbian agricultural country more complicatedly. The same was done by most Member States mainly after a longer or shorter transition period. So far, foreign citizens from the EU or any third country in the world have been bypassing it with the simple establishment of a company in Serbia and without any problems buying our agricultural land. Unfortunately, as a result of the signing of the EU SAA in 2008, our Republic of Serbia has committed itself to selling the country to foreigners before gaining membership without a requirement for a transitional period. This is also an international contract that our Constitution of the Republic of Serbia recognises as such and which we are obliged to fulfill. That's why this law is of great importance to our country's outcome, and we have to give priority to our domestic farmers. At the beginning of the presentation, I mentioned Poland, as an example of an EU Member State that has rigorously protected its agricultural country, and on the other hand we have Romania as an example of full liberalisation. The adoption of the Law on the acquisition of private property rights over land by foreign citizens and foreign legal entities in 2005 enables EU citizens to acquire property rights over land. This enabled them to acquire property over the land through purchase, as well as inheritance under the conditions of reciprocity. In 2014, a law on the sale and purchase of agricultural land was adopted in Romania, allowing the full equalisation of foreign citizens with Romanian citizens with regard to the right to acquire property over agricultural land. The largest parcels of agricultural land were sold to foreigners in Romania, or a third of the total area of farmland. The lease of land is also liberalized, without restrictions, so foreigners currently have twice as much as purchased area of agricultural land. When it comes to the lease of land in our Republic of Serbia, Article 3. The law on the fundamentals of the property-legal relations of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed that the owner has the right to use his own thing and to have it within the limits of the law, which means that he is free to rent if some other law does not prescribe something else. In view of the above, and since the lease is a bonding legal relationship, it could be concluded that the lease of agricultural land by foreign legal and natural persons is possible, but the law also establishes a obligation for legal persons, as renters of agricultural land, to provide for the employment of unemployed persons. Agricultural land is one of the most important resources of each country and a basic factor in agricultural production, providing income to most rural populations, then food security of the nation, whose responsible management also affects the conservation of the environment. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law regulate the conditions for the transport of agricultural land in order to enable EU citizens to acquire property rights on agricultural land. So this is what we must achieve in our further Eurointegration, but wisely and wisely, as well as anything else that our government has previously led with Alexander Vukic, namely now with Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. In voting day, the SNS will support this proposal to amend and supplement the Agricultural Land Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19233	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has a national MP, Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We listened carefully to all the debaters, of course the minister and his discussion. I would like to say, in my best interest, that the law that has been passed, that is, changes and additions, is a palitative character. We will not solve this, unfortunately, the fundamental issue of the sale and dispersion of Serbian ornaments, and we will only create certain problems for people from our diaspora. That's why I plead and repeat that one more time, because we've already broken deadlines. I know that any change to the agreement requires another actor, which is the EU, to try to talk to the EU and connect, to freeze this now and to bind the sale of the country to Serbia's EU entry. If Serbia enters the EU, then it takes 10 more years, with certain restrictions, to pass and then we can join the country's sale. If Serbia does not enter the EU, which is my wish as a Eurosceptics, then the country will not be sold. Meanwhile, of course, both the ministry and the government, either this or any other who comes afterwards, will have the authority and motive to raise the Serb village, to raise Serb agriculture that is threatened. Our strategic economy is supposed to be agriculture, we need to strengthen it, we need to strengthen the village, and this kind of palitative procedure and the palitative adoption of the law, we're not going to do it, and I don't think that's the right intensity.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19235	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19236	Respected Serbian citizens, after this two-day debate on one of the most important state issues, the issue of selling agricultural land to foreigners can only say that this attempt to distract the public by the current government has failed. I would like Mr. Minister to deny me and tell the citizens of Serbia whether foreigners can buy land in Serbia from September 1st? Yes, you make it possible for these amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act. You apply the SAA with the EU and you say this law for the first time – that foreigners can buy land in Serbia. It's been impossible so far, from this moment on, if you adopt this law, it'll be possible, it's the first thing. The other thing is, there's no difference between you and the former regime. You're just fulfilling the obligations that the former regime has made in its time. So, the simple thing -- they have concluded the SAA with the EU, it says that in four years, we need to bring about the adjustment of our domestic legislation so that the land can be sold to foreigners, you are now making this adjustment and providing something that is anti-constitutional and illegal by this time, which is that foreigners can buy agricultural land in Serbia. So, you are the policy go-aheads of Boris Tadic and Serbia's EU path at all costs and it's nice to admit it. As you admit it, that's a nice thing to say, and you say it yourself, I thank you for that, because I can quote it now. What are the reasons for the law being passed by an emergency procedure? Here, let Serbian citizens hear what is the priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia at the moment, why this session of the National Assembly? What is the most important topic in Serbia today? To hear Serbian citizens say what the government says about the reasons for passing the law by emergency procedure. It says – to ensure that EU citizens receive the same treatment as their citizens when buying immovable property in Serbia. So, at this point, it is the priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia, that EU citizens have the same treatment in Serbia as citizens of Serbia when it comes to buying immovable property. There is, therefore, nothing more important right now in Serbia. This is the only item on the agenda of this assembly session because it is only important for this government to be satisfied with EU citizens. What about the citizens of Serbia, who cares? Did you, Mr. Minister, allow a referendum on this matter? Of course you ran away from the referendum as the devil of the cross, because you know that you would lose in the referendum, you know that this would be forbidden to you in the referendum, you know that as in Hungary, 90% of Serbian citizens would vote against the sale of agricultural land to foreigners and that it would be incorporated into the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Most importantly, you have here defended the tycoons that have robbed Serbia in the past twenty and more years, because you said you now want to help market competition and to enable some new foreign companies that would compete with our tycoons. Did the tycoons do something wrong, Mr. Minister? Why aren't they in jail? The frog of your statement in "Informer" against Miskovic or anyone else. Why don't you arrest them? Why don't you convict them? Why has six years of SNS authority been convicted by no one? Today, there are no tycoons or politicians in Serbia's prisons that have robbed Serbia. So it was all a lie. Your fight against crime and corruption was one huge lie. What exactly is the truth, that the citizens of Serbia know about what you're doing? Well, who wants to know, in the end, will a stranger, a random passerby, buy 1 ha in Serbia in 10 years? You've been back years, and you and the former government, allow foreigners and tycoons to buy tens of thousands of acres by registering their companies that can buy whatever they want here. This is what you lie to Serbian citizens, you have already made it possible for foreigners, your Arab and German friends, "Tenis" and others to rent and buy our land without being limited. That's the problem, you're hiding the truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19237	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Goran Jesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19238	Thank you. We've heard it now, and in the past two days things have been here. We've been listening to reports today, a little bit better prepared and a little less read, listening to things. We listened to those who were part of the ruling coalition who voted for the SAA as they gave up, as they were forced. It's supposed to be a message to you, that tomorrow they'll give up on you, and that's half your coalition, which is at least not polite when you talk about it. If you ask me about the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, yes, we're proud of it. We removed the obstacles that were then, we removed a bunch of things that happened, we solved the white Schengen, eventually the minister gave the instrument to solve the problem with Croatia a month ago. Did you ministers use that instrument back then? Yes, it is. As far as this law is concerned, we have made it clear that Comrade Goca Comic said that we have amendments and Monday, I hope it will be a session Monday, we will discuss this with regard to our supported amendments whether we will or will not vote for this law and it is perfectly reasonable for you to pass this law. I found that he's ambiguous and I explained, I tried to plastically explain why he's pointless, because you have on the other hand your public plot to prevent the waste of state land, on the other hand you have nontransparent land-sharing. We mentioned "Tenis" and I mentioned "Al Ravafed" and don't be a spokesman for "Al Ravapheda", the whole procedure is non-transparent. You spent 46 million on that system, or you spend at some point, but when we count on how much land you gave, or how much land the government gave before you, we figure out 10 million euros from the Development Fund that got the previous companies that took over to clear their debts, and when you look at it times 30 years, it'll be a dramatic difference. In the end, give these terms to anyone through this compensation, let's see what happens to domestic producers, but give them the money development fund that you gave to Al Ravafed. It's not a problem of Serbian agriculture, this law. I really don't have the fear and that you haven't made this restriction that some natural person will come, we have a problem of a deeper period here and we as DS in November, regardless of your observation that we didn't come in the voting day, you know what the ministers are, we're the opposition, but in public here and at the press conference we supported you for two laws that we think are pro-European and that they are good laws, that they are primarily in the interest of every citizen. We want to talk and we want to do it that way. We are not the ones burning the embassies, sitting on a styrofoam, beautiful streets of Ratko Mladic and making a problem for the authorities. We want to have a dialogue. Unfortunately, we don't have that dialogue. The problem with agriculture is deeper. We won't, and you know it well, deal with, as the President then, the Deputy Prime Minister or the first Deputy Prime Minister announced, with a million ha of irrigation of the Vojvodina. We can't irrigate, in the end, irrigation is just as dangerous for land as drought, because you're changing the pH value of land. We want to do this and we openly say that we support you for what you started to do, finally after five years, with Arab money and what jobs you did for three projects in Serbia and several projects in Vojvodina. It's a good job, we have no problem saying it, we're not ashamed of it, but why we've waited four years for the ministers to twist and do nothing. We have a problem with having climate change. As Minister, we spoke to the Committee, you must initiate a change of agrotechnics in this country. That's the essential question. We can no longer behave and learn from Russian textbooks from 1957 agrotechnical measures at the moment the climate conditions changed, we can't function like this. You'll have an incident situation every other year, and on the other hand, you don't just solve it by irrigating it. You can't irrigate mercate corn and wheat, you can't trace cost-effectiveness, but you can increase the volume of soybeans, some other cultures, to go into the yoke of culture and solve these problems and continue to invest the capital investments that you've been talking about and that haven't happened in eight months. We were just talking about processing facilities, invest in it. Don't trust a foreigner with the Prime Minister, and he says, "Come work here, but a domestic producer, he's been through a lot, and he knows how to do it." So I'll see you Monday, we'll discuss the law of the amendments, but simply, the SAA is a good document for every citizen of this country. He was a negotiation, you were a good negotiator, something you weren't, because you weren't able to do. We are not Poland, we are not the Czech Republic that enters, we are another country that has been brought into this situation by the parties of the previous regime. To my colleagues, to explain, DOS ceased to exist in 2004. Don't, it's not DOS, just to figure out what the termological parties of the former regime are, whether it's the Vucic government or the government in which Ivica Dacic chaired, that we only know that you're not confusing us. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19239	Thank you, colleague Jesic. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19240	Thank you. Dear citizens, this law is, of course, a colourful lie that tries to cover up the essence of the problem and it practically solves nothing and has no important reason to bring it. The main problem of the law is the provision of legislation that allows the government to give 30% of the best country in each municipality in Serbia to foreign investors and various domestic tycoons, and regarding the top political parties. That's what's happening in Serbia. Like the German "Tenis", such as these investment around Al Ravafed, that practically nothing is happening. People living in Sivc know it very well, as well as in Karadjordjevo. So, the bottom line is that the government's policy is to give state agricultural land to large foreign corporations and various investors who are in some relationship with the top political parties. So, we can simply and clearly say that the SNS supports, because it will vote and vote this law, support the giving of our necklaces to foreigners. That's the whole policy of this government, turning Serbia into a country of cheap labour. Instead of our agricultural holdings working, they should be superiors to these foreign investors. That's deeply wrong. Serbia needs a agricultural policy based on cooperatives, according to the Dutch and Danish models. The country needs to process, state land, domestic agricultural holdings, and for none of that the government has a plan. Instead of supporting farmers, she supports shoppers and buyers. Look at the Malian situation, we have no regulated market that supports our agricultural producers. For all these reasons, "Enough has been enough" will vote against this law. We'll also talk about amendments, how things can be fixed. However, the essence remains the same, a key member of the law is a member who allows the government to have 30% of the best country in all municipalities in Serbia to foreign investors, and that is exactly what is happening in Serbia. "Enough is enough" will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19241	The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19242	Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, there has really been a lot of listening to various scientific-fantastic comments today, which have no basis at all. About all this, what's most important? The most important thing is that this debate has shown what is whose wish and who has sent whom to this House with what idea. I'm sure some colleagues have been able to convince us to postpone the adoption of this law, so that on September 1st, the notaries would have had a lot of work to do, so that some tycoons who literally stole the most fertile land in Vojvodina would be able to valorize and transfer land from the company to the foreign faces and thus simply get to cash. That's not gonna happen. It's a good thing at this point this law regulates a way of creating a space of ten years, in which, in my opinion, the most important thing is the creation of a fund from which the right to prevent purchases would be realised. Why do I say that's very important to me? Because the state must not miss the opportunity to make agricultural land at the real market price of the buyout, to then, through appropriate procedures, for which a legal basis should be prepared, together, because only state land can be aggregated through the commission at this time, and thus create a real basis for agriculture in Serbia to start standing. Another item that needs to come into place in all of this is that precisely this land that will be used in this way for efficient agricultural production, under well-fused conditions, under acceptable conditions, with sufficient grace period, sales, concessions, with loans, young couples who want to stay in the country and thus show one seriousness, as we have shown in the work so far. Seriousness when it comes to agricultural land, this government and previous governments carrying SNS with its coalition partners show only through one typical and easy example how much more serious and fairer and with a clear intention compared to those who ruled until 2012. In 2015, the PIC "Becej" company, which has about 3,000 hectares of land owned, was privatised and sold for 45m euros. The comparisons, in 2005, "Agrounia", which has seven thousand hectares of land, were sold for only two million euros. Both companies, in some circumstances, privatized and bought an MK group. The price difference is clear. The land hectare privatised in 2015 cost about 15,000 euros, and a hectare of land privatised in 2005 was sold for less than 300 euros. Do not think that we have forgotten that sugars are privatized for the buds, so sugar in the Caves, which has been paid for two or three euros, has allowed for the free use of more than 100 hectares of agricultural land also to the MK group. This, therefore, makes it clear who has a relationship with agricultural land, agriculture and farmers, because the difference that has been expressed in this alone speaks more than enough. This law is really meaningful and obviously the only possible. Maybe some variants were different, possible different conditions, but this couldn't have been solved without passing laws and without setting certain conditions. You know what's pointless? It is pointless when you explain that as a member of the yellow company, when you have a 800-euro salary, you can buy an 800,000-euro apartment in Vienna. That's ridiculous. It's pointless, and it's even against the law and the crime and whatnot, when you sell from your wild processing facilities to the Duke's Clinical Center. (Alexander Martinovic: Au, who was doing it? Well, a yellow company, who else would work in this country. Anyone who boasts of a gold feather and says he is so glad that he signed an agreement that, it seems to me, counterpart Orlic said that he would not wash his hand. Well, not that he won't wash, he can't wash his hand, he can't wash neither Sava nor Dunav, nor all the water that's been through this time, because whoever came to sleep with his aunt on the couch, and with a gold feather signed more than 20m euros in shares in one bank, he really knew what he was doing, how he negotiated, and why this agreement was negotiated. I agree with my colleagues, my colleagues may not agree with this, listening to all this today, that about agricultural land was best protected by the time until 1990, when there was social property, when only agricultural combinations could have or agricultural cooperatives owned agricultural land, and natural persons limited by agrarian maximum. I remember it with my mind, and I may wish for it, but reality is something else in this moment where we live and therefore we must treat ourselves properly. The agricultural land is unfortunately not, as some misread it, defined in the current Constitution of Serbia, and when you see what the agreement is, perhaps not a coincidence, is not defined as good of general interest, it remains only as an immovableity. So, my dear dear fellow Members, since many are talking about possible changes to the Constitution, and they are, perhaps through changes to the Constitution, we should also think about how to define the status of agricultural land to make it more protected than it is right now. I thank and repeat that we will vote for this, because this simply at this moment prevents the agricultural land from becoming the private property of EU citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19243	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19244	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, as we usually do, I would like to thank my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group and colleagues who have expressed support for the bill at the very end. As we announced at the beginning of this debate yesterday, it remains, it is as clear as then, this is an extremely good bill, a proposal that allows us to achieve good things at the same time in two places and when it comes to protecting the interests of our citizens of agricultural producers and when it comes to the strategic movement of the Republic of Serbia towards EU membership. It's undeniable, that there are no counter arguments, or whatever you want to call it, no. On the other hand, more than clearly, here, it has also been shown in these final words that we've shared for a moment. About that, just like we usually do a few comments from our side. That someone who has allowed himself to act cartoonally to begin their highly esteemed exposure to the words – here, what the evil regime is doing, has now allowed even worse foreigners to buy us land, and this has not been possible until today. Well, then three minutes of talking about what else, completely forget what he said first and then finish. Otherwise, evil strangers have been buying for years and you've made it possible for them. So that's enough to indicate how much someone has nothing to say, or how much they know what they're saying, or doesn't know. So by commenting too much, he doesn't even know who's first-degreed, first-degree, right now, who's in prison for his misdemeanors. We talk to him all the time, it's not a dispute, we'll repeat the names and names of those presidents of the municipalities and the largest tycoons and former ministers. Nothing to worry about. What's the difference between us and the former regime can ask someone freely if they don't understand. But to be clear, one who publicly boasts the other day in a propaganda programme of a famous tabloid, champion of the yellow press in Serbia, that between him and Tadic's, there is no quote – no difference in national and patriotic terms. Whoever says something like that about us asking for any difference, don't be ridiculous. And when he talks about percentages of DOS's on call, you know who he is, and when he talks about percentages in any sense, that he has no idea what he's talking about, I don't have to tell him, 98% of the citizens who went to the polls told him. As for the one who obviously missed the session so he doesn't know that today we're not talking about the lease at all, we're talking about the SAA and other topics, it's his business. But when he says that there is no market for our raspberries, when he decides whether or not it is finally for Europe, we may also exchange a few words on the subject of selling 30 percent of Serbia in Germany, 30 percent in France, so the Benelux countries go, that protecting the good interests of our producers is exactly the European way. He doesn't know it and he doesn't understand it. At the very end, those who said they were at the SAA and how they were negotiating it, all-faith, how much yesterday before a direct question of journalists, the same one was dissipating and saying what kind of SAA I had nothing to do with it. The dialogue, of course, can, but it starts from itself. When a dialogue is called on about the new government to respond, when it is called for the KIM dialogue, to respond, not to make up meaningless excuses and to answer our call for dialogue in words – an evil regime. Imagine that monstrous sentence, killing our children. That's not how it's done and that's not how it behaves if we're serious. To that theatre display it calls for this session and the bill's proposal, and that seems to have been the most dramatic example of something controversial in this proposal, Mr. Minister, you remember, that's what the colleague did yesterday says – you did not specify Article 85 here. The constitution as an explanation, and it can't be written like that. What it says is completely true and it's based on the Constitution and it's absolutely true. But the SAA as negotiated on behalf of Serbia is irresponsible and irresponsible, and we have shown it and read it and what is their phenomenal results, so it cannot say if someone is going to take care of Serbia in a valid and correct manner. The pests, but fortunately for Serbia, that's the last sentence, Mr. Chairman, have passed them. Today, someone who truly loves this country and who knows how to produce a result takes care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19245	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Comrade Bosko Obradović, you do not have the right to reply If you want, I'll read you article 104. [[Bosko Obradovic: I have recognized myself to enable me to replicate.]] He didn't mention your name, nor the MP's group, nor did he take offense. (Bosko Obradovic: Is it funny to you too? I don't know, you don't understand anything all day, so now at the end of the day. (Saša Radulovic: Replica. Mr. Radulovich, you have no right to a replica, he didn't even mention you. Thank you. (Saša Radulovic: Read Article 104) Rules of Procedure. Read the Rules of Procedure. No thanks. You should be ashamed of what you're doing. The only chairman who doesn't give replicas. You should read that you have no right to throw. Please don't do this, be polite. Be polite now at the end of the day and when we finish the session. Marija Janjušević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19246	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I refer to Article 27. What you and I argued yesterday, which seems to me you haven't learned for all these years. So, you're taking care of the order at this session. Let me quote you. You said... .
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19247	The order of the session is 108. Look at the Rules of Procedure. Take a good look at the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19248	Okay. And there's something you can learn from us from the opposition since we didn't...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19249	Learn members of the Rules of Procedure, please take another look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19250	The President of the National Assembly is concerned about the application of this Rules of Procedure. If I have to explain myself further. You know as well as I do that the right to a replica has every MP whose exposure is maliciously interpreted in this case. But to quote you first, you said – you've had a funny day. Will it be pleasant for you to read it in a stenogram? Is this really the way you want to run this session? Do you really have to court the SNS at all costs? Don't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19251	Thank you very much, I don't want to get into that kind of controversy. I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure or told my colleagues, you'll check it out. That's absolutely what he told me. Nor did I tell my colleague Obradovic that something funny was funny to me all day. Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly in voting day to plead?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19252	Can I finish, think you've broken the Rules of Procedure by... ?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19253	No, you're starting to abuse the Rules of Procedure, so... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19254	And you abuse... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19255	The word has Minister Nedimovic. Here you go. Here you go, Minister. Thank you. Tatjana Macura, I apologize. You weren't on the display.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19256	I was, so you probably got me off by mistake. I refer to the breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 104. I will read it in full and ask you to pay attention to the last part of this position – If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended about the MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates has the right to reply. I believe that you have injured Article 104(1) by not allowing a replica, not only once, but several MPs of the National Assembly, so that I would ask you to take a vote on this Rules of Procedure and explain to us why you allowed this to have no right to reply to any MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19257	Because there was absolutely no basis, and that's how I assessed it. This is a discretionary right defined by Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19258	Can you look at the stenogram notes?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19259	Thank you very much. Do you want the National Assembly in voting day to plead?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19260	Yes, I do, but I also want you to look at the stenographic notes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19261	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19262	All right, let's just finish with Member Macur, say if he wants the assembly to come forward in the voting day. (Tatjana Macura: Yes, with insight into the stenographic note. (Sasa Radulovic: So she said only three times so far - yes. ) I didn't know that MP Radulovic became Tatjana Macura, so he answers instead of Tatjana Macura. (Saša Radulovic: How rude you are. ) Thank you very much. I don't want us to have this kind of communication with gentlemen who think they've been raised by earning the President of Parliament and persistently insulting both the President of Parliament and the chairman who replaces me. So I really thank you on my behalf and on behalf of my vice presidents for the dialogue that you have with us, and you remind us that we should apply the Rules of Procedure and lead the session order. The word is Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go, Minister. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19263	Thank you, Madam President. Dear fellow Members of the People, I am very grateful to all colleagues who in the past 12, 13 hours, yesterday and today have supported in principle, amendments and additions to the Agricultural Land Act, because this is a very important thing for agriculture and in general for Serbia, for one simple reason, because this is how we repair the situation that we inherited from the SAA and try to protect what is ours. I also thank those who did not favor these proposed provisions, but took part in the debate and contributed to the debate or amendment. I can't say the same for those who come in for two minutes, say something, and I just want to answer, and there's no one left, no, it doesn't apply to you. Plus all that is missing out on the subject, which is what counterpart Orlic noticed. I think it's someone, this looks like that back in the future, when you come back for a while. Looks like someone came back in December 2015, but it doesn't matter. I want to thank everyone for the constructive debate, on the proposals, we will accept some amendments because they are good at directing the law, and those who are wiped out about them on Monday. I am grateful to everyone for the constructive debate and I can only say that everything we have proposed, we have done to improve the situation, we have allowed Serbia not to sell agricultural land in private property to EU citizens for the next ten years, i.e. to set that deadline for meeting cumulative conditions. I think this is the way we did the most we could in the given conditions. All other objections can be considered, we talked about them, but everyone must know that the country of Serbia is not something that changes its policy and moves every six minutes. This is a serious state and must take care of its national interests. Thank you both on Monday or whatever day the amendments are. Of course we'll be at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-08-25-0.u19264	I am concluding a principled search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Land Act. We finished work today. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) We will continue to work on the amendment debate Monday at ten o'clock after the committees have spoken. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 64 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 93 MPs are present in the hall and that we have conditions for continuing work. We continue to work and move on to a search in particular of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Land. You have received amendments submitted by MPs and by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Forestry and Water Management on the draft law. I remind you of the people sent by Mr Goran Chabradi in writing withdrew the amendments to the article. One, three and four. It's a bill of law. You've received a report from the board of directors. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. Members of Đorđe Vukadinović, Dejan Šukić, Milan Lapčević, Gorica Gajic, together Vjerica Radeta, Nemanja Sarović, Milorad Mirčić, Milan Damjanović, Sveto Perić, Natasa Jovanovic, Bozidar Delić, Zoran Krasic, Nikola Savic and Momcilo Mandić, together Bosko Obradović, Srđan Nogo, Zoran Radojčić, Marija Janjušević, Mr Ivan Kostic, Dr Dragan Vesic, Prof. Miladin Ševarlić, together Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Jovan Jovanovic, Sonja Pavlovic and Aleksandar Cabraja, together with Saša Radulović and Nenad Christmas. Does anyone come forward after the first amendment? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
