ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23079	Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia this year. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present today in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 101 MPs are present in the hall. I would like to inform you that today's session has been prevented from being attended by MP Mr Ivan Kostic. We are continuing a joint, principled, unique search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 1 to 7 of the agenda. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called for today's session to be attended by Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development Mladen Sarcevic, with his associates, and Director of the Agency for the Protection of Ionian Emissions and Nuclear Security of Serbia Sladjan Velinov, also with his associates. Yesterday, Ambassador Arpad Fremond spoke. Anybody else answer for a word? Vojislav Vujic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23080	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Ministers, you know that the JS parliamentary group supports all that is good for the citizens of Serbia. Today, the law and amendments to the laws that we have on the agenda will be supported, because each one in its own way is good. Today, I will focus most on the proposal for a law on dual education. I don't think it's possible and it's not realistic that preschools or secondary and primary education institutions themselves influence and give themselves maximum quality that can be expected of any student or child. I personally believe that family is a very important factor and that it is she who should be the closest partner to the Ministry of Education in the realization of your goals. We from JS have repeatedly mentioned the law on dual education. Mr. Dragan Markovic, our president has spoken to you in this House several times on this subject and I am pleased that this law has finally come to the Assembly. Personally, I think this is one of the laws, if applied in practice properly, by which you will remain recorded in this history of our parliamentary life. The system of practice through school institutions is, in the place where I come from Vrnjačka Banja, quite well known and well-known, because the catering and tourist school, and you had the opportunity to see it yourself last week, achieves the observed results, and for years back is just using one of these good examples. So practice through student education. The director of the institution Jelena Ceperkovic, with all teachers she is conducting her studies with, has achieved excellent results, not only in Serbia, but also in countries in the region. All those kids left one good mark in all the countries and places they've been, and they're one good promoter and Vranjska Banja, and believe me, and the Ministry of Education. In Vrnjačka Banja we also have a Faculty of Tourism and Hoteling. Why would I bring that up? Today we're talking about dual education, and we have a situation where the students of that university have an obligation to go to practice for three years, and that's their condition to take the exam, to get a graduate exam. But the situation that does not benefit them is precisely that, unlike high school students who will have some compensation for this work, they have no compensation. So they have an obligation. I think that we should do something similar in addition to this law on dual education relating to secondary schools, that we should do something similar for dual education for college students, because that condition they respect and do fairly everything in the tourist centres in Serbia, and I know that they went out of Serbia, and we were able to meet the students at Zlatibor and Kopalnik, Vrnjačka Banja, Arandelovac, in all tourist resorts, unfortunately, they had no opportunity to be properly rewarded. I'd like to ask you, speaking of this college, that since 2011, the number of students in that university has already been over 700, the capacity we have surpassed the student interest, please take up that and help expand those capacities. I see you also have the support of a secretary who comes from Vrnjaka Banja, and I believe it will be one plus more Vrnjakka Banja. As for dual education, we had a good practice in the 1950s at the time. However, it was a different country, a large country, an industry was more powerful, so all the students who were in the schools of students in the economy or industrial school had almost guaranteed jobs. Of course, the difference between this law and the advantage of this law is that all students who work with some economic operators in this case will have some compensation. They didn't have that back then. This law will certainly, through some application of itself, come into a situation where it may re-emerge here in Parliament, to do some changes and additions, etc. which is absolutely nothing abnormal. This is a new experience and a new law. What I am now, and yesterday you mentioned at one point, perhaps as one, not a lack, but a moment of application, that some synchronization is a moment where I am not sure that we will have enough instructors that in business entities can work with students, and that under this law they have an obligation to be trained to work with children. That's one of the problems. Another problem we can encounter is the situation why economic operators would take these students to practice. So I want to make one suggestion, that this isn't just a job for the Ministry of Education, this is a great law, but support for a law like this should be given in the Ministry of Business and the Ministry of Finance. In what way? You need to come up with some reliefs or some stimuli just for these economic operators to open the door to these students to come to their jobs. What is very important, of course, is that students must be aware of the obligations they make. So at that point, teaching becomes more than mandatory. It would be awkward for a student to get one such chance without every other or third day showing up for work. And we have a situation that's the opposite of this, which is an example in Jagodina where by developing an industrial zone, it has come into such a situation that a large number of closely specialized professions are needed. They have a particular problem with the tailor's lack of tailors, the lack of welders. So, as far as they're concerned, it's not a problem for all those kids to start working. What is a good and interesting data, and to me it was a little unreal that the variables in Serbia, since the total deficit is behind them, even have a starting salary of about 500 euros and more. Starting salary, and there aren't enough on the market. Maybe now we should open a new topic, and that's the question of how we classify children when they define themselves what they're going to be in life. There are fewer children who choose to do some, I can say freely and physically difficult jobs, these two professions that I've listed are physically difficult regardless of what is well paid. It's another topic we have to deal with, motivate our children to go back to those jobs where the work makes some money, to show them, and that's this law, which is why I praise it. This law is one of those laws that will show young people exactly that and that is in the earliest education that, besides learning to school and earn and that may be one of their motives to stay in Serbia and not go any further, although there is a situation and we are all aware that young people in search of income are leaving this country. So, this law is a good mechanism that's just fighting it. As far as the other laws are concerned, I won't talk much about them, these are additions to the Preschool, Primary and Secondary Education Act. Basically roof law, the education system we almost had here in our debate is something that caused all of these to change and supplement offices. I can commend what I've noticed, and that's that you've given a lot of attention to the inculation, that's one good thing. As for all these three additions to the Law on Education, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will, of course, vote for them. Today we have an agreement, an International Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We are in charge of this Agreement, but we are in a good way under very favourable conditions, and the effects of the Agreement itself and the responsibilities are over 17,000 seats in preschool institutions for children. One more thing, perhaps illogically, we are constantly talking in Serbia about the problem of white plague and the fight against white plague, and then we have a situation that in large cities, even in some smaller towns, parents have a problem because there are not enough capacities that can accept these children. This is one message to all of them that no one is sitting down, that this topic is being worked on and that this system of new 17,000 places for these children is opening up some new jobs for the real sector, just for those people in education. Of course, we'll support this, too. As regards two other laws and one amendment, it is the Law on the Convention on Nuclear Safety and the Convention on the Safety of Fuel Management and the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management. Our country isn't such a big country, we don't have, I can say, and fortunately, the nukes, but in the environment where we are, there are them, and simply this is one alignment and more support of that environment and the signing of such an agreement. In any case, the support of the Single Serbia you have for everything that is on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23081	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23082	Here, just to introduce you to the things that you brought out yourself in your presentation, we recently visited, the entire delegation of the Ministry of Education, just the Vranjska Banje, just like the high school center you mentioned, as well as the university. We think that those great institutions that need to be supported and their development increased, especially in the part of the health tourism that the Dean and I have been talking about. When it comes to the dual model, it's invested in a school that gives good personnel, great personnel, and we'll continue. I just mentioned yesterday, in the opening part, that the models that are now being created will be the most dedicated to tourism, hospitality and construction in the next season, because these are our expansion branches. What you've noticed is that the number of instructors will need to increase, but the plan is that, when the law starts to fully apply, for the next two years, so that story will happen. When it comes to the structure of our economy, we also know that the majority are small and medium-sized enterprises. At a meeting that we had, then Prime Minister Vukic and the Swiss Confederation people, right in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, we also announced that we would be working on a model of subsidies for small and medium-sized enterprises, so that they could take over these candidates they need, and it's both good. When it comes to student practice, so we're doing a model, my career, my city, my practice, so now we have just one new line and it's run by a colleague exactly who you mentioned. So it will also be included as a new system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23083	Thank you. The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23084	Thank you, Madam President of the National Assembly. Mr. Minister, honored guests from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, before I refer to the laws themselves, I must say that these 12 points, or all these points put together, that this is a huge mistake because these laws are all very important and should leave time to discuss each of them. But as time has little, of course, I'd like to say that it doesn't go to the laundry address, Mr. Minister, it goes to the address of the organization of those who organize work in the National Assembly and the leadership of the National Assembly. I'll concentrate on my presentation on the draft law on dual education. First of all, because he's the least acceptable to me, so I have to say even completely unacceptable. For these other laws we have amended and reacted, but they could be acceptable, but the law on dual education as it is formulated is certainly not good. It is not, of course, just my position, it is the attitude of very serious people who are involved in education in Serbia, such as Professor Ivan Ivić, such as Professor Pesikan, such as the President, until yesterday, the National Council of Professor Alexander Lipovski. They believe that such a law, which assesses the catastrophic ones, will quote "disrupt our quality secondary vocational education and bring it down to poor master schools in which, as it stands in Article 30, 80% of teaching is carried out outside the classroom, in companies, and kept by trained masters who have no educational education, nor responsibility for education of children, and will not be subject to any serious and educational and pedagogical control and inspection. “ Each law should answer the question, which of the problems in Serbian education would solve the introduction of this dual system. The dual system itself reminds us very much, especially us a little older, of the school of students in the economy, so-called. The three-year industrial schools, which the Socialist Yugoslavia inauguralised to be able to quickly resolve the employment in the economy that was then growing and do so in the shortest time period. We all know, too, that from so-called. SUP, and schools of students in the economy, could not go further to studies. We are today introducing dual education at a time when the whole of Europe, including the world, at a time when we have the results of the education development strategy in Serbia by 2020, brought by this government in 2012, as well as the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts' Chamber on Education, as the development resource of Serbia, speak of the need to even increase, i.e. to introduce secondary education, four-year-olds with graduation and the possibility that as many children as possible study. Also, according to this strategy, which was otherwise inaugurated by the European Commission, and then we, too, says that 40% of young people up to 35 should have completed college. Serbia has been satisfied with that 38% figure somewhere, and I am now wondering how we will have 38% of university-educated people when we stress today on dual education, or three-year-old schools, which, however, prevent these children from studying further. Very often the example of Germany that introduced this dual education is mentioned, but in Germany we know that there are ten years of plans ahead, Germany's economy is a little different from our economy, and if we look at it realistically and if we're honest and realistic, we look at who goes to German schools in dual education, then we'll see a very large percentage of the Gustrabite children. It's a German thing, that she's making a caste of manual workers in her country of some of them who are gasterbackers, meaning foreigners. But that doesn't mean that in Serbia, we need to make our own children a caste of manual workers who cannot continue to develop, they cannot continue to grow in some intellectual, or educational sense. Also, I'd like to look back on innovation. Here, we have, this government also has the Minister of Innovation and you, Mr. Minister Sarčević, are running a ministry that is the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, which includes innovation as well. Now, in addition to the two departments of non-innovation, we are now going back to this dual education, or the school of students in the economy. Let me also refer to Prime Minister Brnabic as saying very much about the digitisation of Serbia in her exposé. So what kind of digitisation, which is the technological step forward again, we're talking about when our main hit is to reintroduce students' school in economics through this dual education? Also, I'd like to say, if someone didn't take me wrong, I respect all the professions and respect the very mastery of the professions, however, the master's professions have to go hand in hand with the law of trade, which we don't have. We don't even have a craft chamber, we don't have anything or anyone who can get these young people to finish those craft schools tomorrow to protect them, to provide them with a safe job. Because, say, what happens if someone who's an employer there to those young people, where they do 80% of their teaching, says, "I don't pay for this anymore, I'm going to shut down the company?" Where will these children in one Shop or in one small town in Serbia find someone else to continue their education? This has not been resolved, and in this regard we have responded to the amendment. The 20th century will be a century of growth of professional, service and information-communication technology. We all know that in the agriculture and business sector, there is a predominance of robotics that needs to be managed by certainly a very educated vessel. So what do we do in that case? Then we'll only have low-skill workers, and it looks like our engineers will be from imports, too, of course, and all the owners of the companies that these kids are going to work with. Also, I'd look back, as someone in the topic, of course, in higher education, but I have three children, I have grandchildren, so I know what school looks like. It is very important to introduce some general objects and that even in professional subjects we also have general subjects, such as mathematics, physics, chemistry, and even history, or Serbian language, or foreign language. Why does it matter? This is important precisely because of mobility, i.e. because these children learn to learn, that they can qualify tomorrow, overqualified, and move on. We know that human mobility is very important, and these children will be tied to one company, to one machine, to one business environment, and they will not have these professional objects, they will not have them in sufficient numbers to allow them to be mobile. According to Vigosk, in addition to phylogenet and ontogeneous development, education is the third line of development, which society has designed as institutional support for the development of young generations. We, unfortunately, have made it practically impossible for our children to do this through this dual education law. I would also like to add that, as far as turning the priorities of education policy to dual education is concerned, it is a conflict with the democratisation of education and the concept of quality education for all. We know well that in smaller communities, in smaller towns in Serbia, in poorer environments, dual education will be the only thing these children can get and so we will have a growing gap, where the rich will be even richer, and the poor will be even poorer and practically knocked into the situation that they can't move forward and further develop. In the end, I would say that dual education at a small door opens this "bresh" for children's work. It says here that children who work in companies during their education will receive 70% of the minimum wage. That means they'll get about 13,000 dinars. Now I wonder, what is the motivation of the company's owner to take this child further to be a full-time worker of 30,000 or 35,000 dinars, how long would it take to survive and pay a man, when he has the opportunity to hire a new wave of children every three years for such small money? You know, it seems to me that we're going back to Charles Dickens' time, to Nicholas Nickleby's novels, and my heart hurts. My heart hurts even more that Jasa Svedovic 110 years ago was one of the first ministers, or Serbia was then a feather in Europe that abolished children's work and introduced eight-hour working hours. Just to remind those who do not know that child labour has been abolished in one Portugal, which is now an EU member, only in 1974, after Salazar's fascist dictatorship, and we are now introducing child labor. I think this is a bad law, Mr. Minister. I'm a generation that's classically educated. After me came generations of so-called. ‘Shuvarica’. Stipe Šuvar remained remembered with a mockery of those "shuvars". Although Stipi Shuvaru, especially we Serbs from Croatia owe a lot, because he was a man who opposed Tudjman to the punitive fascist regime and was one of the biggest fighters and anti-fascists in Croatia, and he remained remembered for "shuvarica". I would hate for you, Mr. Minister, to be remembered for your "charts." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23085	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23086	I certainly remember “shuvarica, ” I was a professor who taught students in the so - called “Shuvarica. ” I'm going to a law school. If you have learned well, then you will see that there is no similarity to what we do. It's the worst example there is. Our role model is the best model to reform education, which is the IB model, so study it. So, with Shuvar, no resemblance. In the "shuvarica" you had that in the first stage everyone was learning Latin, even those who would be mechanics and chefs. To that extent, it was done, like a shovel when you cut where you shouldn't, so I wouldn't talk about it anymore, believe me. I have to say, kids don't work in dual education, they learn through work. It's a very different category. Also, 70% of the minimumers are not 13,000, but 17,500 or 17.800. Secondly, when we did a category of craft schools, what you say is dual is not crafty, because it's not three years old, it's dual and four years old. It is only a model that at the same time practice works in a well-known working environment and, if possible, for a well-known employer. You heard us talking about dual models at high school. As far as I know, you work in one institution where it's dual and how applicable and at a high level of expertise. When it comes to school students in the economy, it is also from a period of the socialist state. Then the state was the only employer, and she had the idea of taking from the factory the best masters, making workshops, and that they would transfer that knowledge so that they could work on it. By the way, I have to tell you, my background is working, social, and I don't mind myself. If I hadn't had loans and scholarships, I probably wouldn't have been in college. But it's not a question of poverty and wealth, of trade, of Belgrade, of someone who likes to learn and someone doesn't like to learn. Someone likes to work. We also have "wolves" girls in Kragujevac who went after the welder, wanting to be independent from their youth. So it's a completely different paradigm than what you've exhibited here now. Otherwise, if you were to talk about the strategy, look at what it says on page 104, the same strategy that Professor Ivić wrote, which is the ratio of direct decision-making by employers in the development of monitoring the learning and work process. So it's just not a strategy that's been developed. As for all-day classes or the state's capacity for this story, as well as not to use gymansian capacities, as primary school for studies, so that's exactly what we do. Te, don't be afraid we'll go astray. We do a national model of dual education, considering not only Portuguese, we were both there, and Chinese, and what they do, especially Swiss, German and Austrian. But we're not able to track them. We don't have that kind of economy. We're very aware of that. We're talking about a small number of people. You know, we can't all be doctors of science, and we can all create robots, and robots for us can make water heaters and change lamels in cars. Or we could drive somewhere like Dubai, the Filipinos, and I don't know who else to work for us, we're not there yet. When we get there, it'll be easy to pass a better law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23087	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23088	Mr. Minister, you've explained this well, but you haven't convinced me in particular that we're not now creating one, a cassuary of manuels who won't be able to develop any further, and we're doing it to our children. What is a fact is that we now see one trend of large centralization in everything, including education. On the one hand, we have the centralization of education, and on the other hand we have these kids, which you say, girls want to be independent welders, because they want to be independent. To me, it seems like a logical mistake called contradiction in adicto.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23089	The Belief of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23090	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have discussed here some time ago under similar circumstances on the basis of the Law on Education and the Assembly's majority and then, as it is now, decided to discuss the larger number today specifically seven points of the agenda as one item of the agenda and, of course, we are obliged to explain to the public what this is about. It is not good that this is done, because in this way the MPs are deprived of the time to seriously discuss government proposals, to remind the last time, let's say we couldn't talk at all about any amendment to the Proposal for a Law on the founding of a system of higher education, which is indeed a great pity for both the government and the MPs and the general majority, God and all citizens. Because education laws, in a certain way, touch absolutely every citizen in Serbia, every, child, student, parent, teacher, teacher, grandmother, blanket, aunt, uncle. Everyone is very interested in hearing the debate and hearing what the bill is like here and what laws are eventually passed by the congregation. It is not disputed that the congregation majority with 126 green buttons can vote whatever they want. They may vote that the country is a flat panel, but the question is, would the country become a flat panel after such a decision? No, of course not. So we think it's simply not fair that we are discussing this number of cases in this way and we will again be in a situation that we will not be able to discuss some amendments, probably the entire bar of one law will be left without the possibility of discussing the amendments proposed by the MPs. Here, I'll start with the Preschool Education and Education Act, in some order. Amendments and additions to the law are at stake, all except for this dual education. The position of the SRS is generally that amendments and additions to the law are somehow a waste of time and that never through changes and additions of the law is achieved by one normal continent and that never in this way does what the government may want to do. It's always better to pass a whole new law, is this in a certain way to comply with those laws that have been passed although there are some new things and so it would certainly be better if we had, and we have a proposal for a whole new law but good is there. In this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education, since we are indeed deprived for enough time, we will draw attention to only two, three important things. It seems to me that you haven't taken care of even Article 10 to these first members of the ministry. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, nor of Article 11. The law on the use of language and letter. It is very precise on the basis of the Constitution in this law that it provides for how, under which conditions and where the languages of national minorities can be used. This, as you have predicted here, is not exactly in line with the laws, it must be determined by local self-government depending on how many, or 15% of the population in that territory should be from a certain national minority in order for local self-government to decide on the use of the language of the national minority. From what you've written here, let's say, what's impossible, you think a preschool facility in Hungarian can be opened in Lapov. Can't, like you can't open a preschool facility in the Bulgarian language in Senta, for example. We simply have to take care of some other laws that bind us. Also, the Personal Data Protection Act, we don't think it's respected, but we hope it'll be time to discuss the amendments because we have submitted amendments to that effect. It's too much to ask for that data, at least as far as preschool children are concerned, home numbers and so on. You know, there's a lot of abuse, and we have to lead through the law of accounting, not to open up the possibilities of abuse, but wherever it's possible to narrow down space for that kind of thing. When it comes to the Law on Fundamental Education, or the Proposal for a Law on Fundamental Education, we have also submitted a number of amendments and we have some interesting remarks that we think are good first of all for the public to hear. You here predict, or force what should not be characteristic of the law, that you force some special programs. You can say in general that special programs will be introduced, but that through the law you force Montesori, Decroli, Steiner and so on, or specifically these three programs, it can't be done like that. You say similar things, which are similar to others. You can't and why we'd be interested in these special programs that some Rudolph Steiner, Maria Montesori came up with, and so on. We don't think that's supposed to be part of this law, at least not in that way, and we've made an amendment comment that it has to be general. If special programs are introduced, then it should be a general attitude, not now those special ones that you impose, because like these programs, the goal of the child is to use the head, arm and heart in different situations in life and so on. Again, this is playing with these European schools and schools, and I told you last time about how it actually offends intelligence and children and parents and teachers. We can't act, even through the laws to verify that we don't have God's little mind over those who come from the EU, so they're smart, they're talking and so on. Well, we're smarter than them. After all, the education and education system by which you ministers both trained and Mrs. Maja Gojkovic and I and many here, so they obviously had no basis for what we achieved shows that it was a good system of education. And what's now being introduced, and what's been introduced, since Gassa Knezevica, on top of that, is actually just a sunroof of education. You know the ministers, unfortunately, that primary school ends children, and they say they can't read. It's all bad laws. Teachers don't have any rights at school, the teacher can't turn to the student to tell him he has to learn something, because God, his mom and his dad have the money to make a donation to the school, they come up there with a fistful of who can touch their rude kid and a kid who doesn't want to study. So we have to restore dignity to the educators, and these laws don't make it possible, and believe me, and I'm pretty sure you agree, that it is a basic problem. I don't know how it was at your school, I'm talking about your private school, you probably managed to raise it to some level, but generally in schools in Serbia, the situation is catastrophic. Was it possible for a student to strike a teacher some 15 years ago? Today, every teacher fears that some arrogant child will hit him in the middle of class, because it is indeed, unfortunately, happening. It's about peer violence not to talk in elementary school, especially high school. The other changes in this law are absolutely cosmetic and they don't really mean anything, imagine what a big change that is. It used to say "lifestyle," you say "lifestyle." What does that change essentially in the basic education system? Of course, absolutely nothing. Your punishment policy is very, very bad and opens up opportunities for abuse. It can't be the same offense to make a range of fines from 25 grand to a million. He can't. Who's the one who's going to arbitrize, then punish him with 25,000 dinars, the one with a million? He can't. It's just not possible. It may not be exactly 25,000, but it's a really huge range, and we've put the amendment on you, and it would be good for you to accept that amendment. One more thing, Minister, to force the punishment of institutions with enormously high penalties is bad, because that institution is being brought into a situation that it can't work, and they don't have money anyway, and why would everyone in that institution, at that school, suffer in that kindergarten, because they have a arrogant director who you provide for a fine of only 100,000 dinars. Well, punishment for the director must be such as to warn him that he must be responsible, because it is the director who chooses and with a commission who will take the children on a field trip, who determines where a teacher will work, who reduces or increases the fund of classes, who cheers and dresses, who chooses which textbooks will use, too, is mainly done with the commission. It's a public secret and everyone who sits there knows it well. But we need to make sure that through these laws we bring it down to a minimum. As far as secondary education is concerned. This is also about harmonising with that law and again just cosmetic changes, again, I'm going to give an example, there was a teaching program in a member, now it's a teaching and learning program. So there aren't any important changes, that the whole law was passed, like I said at first, so that, by the way, if it had changed, it would have made sense like this really didn't need to, and it doesn't mean anything. You predict in this law on secondary education that school should cultivate partnership with parents. I'm asking you how? How and with what parents? You know well how parents are selected on school boards and how they actually manage teachers, they endanger teachers in their work, in their work. They say, hey, I painted the school, you don't have the right, don't turn the minister's head, believe me, I can tell you how many examples you want, but I don't want to jeopardize those teachers, because it might be around to know where I got that information from. Well, I'm afraid to say that so some people won't suffer because of such directors, and I can tell you and I'll tell you, there you go. You leave the number of enrolment students in charge of the local self-government unit. Wrong. Error, you're taking all the jurisdiction of teachers, there's parents here local self-government. What are teachers for? To be harassed by those parents, harassed by arrogant students, told by the directors to shut up, shut up, I have a relationship at the top of the party, etc. Don't do that. It's really not good for those teachers either, and it's especially not good for the kids they're in school with. It's not good for a 17-year-old person to be able to enroll in high school because really, you know, the difference between 15 and 17 years old, and especially since the assumption is that a child is 17 years old, but a minor adult, an older minor at 17 years old, if he hasn't already enrolled in a primary school, he's probably a troubled character. And you now, neither will he fit into that class of his, and everyone else will probably have problems with him and fear, etc., of him. That's not good either. And one serious remark, you predicted that high schools have a class for students with exceptional abilities, you should also predict that for vocational schools especially if what you just said about dual education is true, then you should accept this amendment, so you should include it. As for the Law on Dual Education, the SRS' view is that this law should not be passed, it should not be generally, and especially not in the circumstances in which the state of Serbia is present. In the economic situation, in the economic situation in which the state of Serbia is located. Don't fool yourself or the public with the claim you made yesterday, that these children through that dual education, you said, learn about the famous employer. What's the famous employer? Is it Jura, by any chance? Those who constantly employ workers have to wear diapers and you will ask them or they will accept the students to study through your dual education program and pay them. Of course he won't. You know what they're gonna do? They'll take those kids to do their hardest and dirtiest jobs, hold them for a month, two days, and then they'll break the contract, and you've been challenged in the conclusion of the contract by the Chamber of Commerce. This contract you provided for in the law is absolutely on the part of the employer, ways of breaking up by the employer. They'll just say, don't come back tomorrow, you've been working, you've been cleaning up the drive for two months. They don't pay the ministers regularly or the people who are regularly employed by them, let alone the students. And the bigger problem is that we can't allow through this kind of dual education, especially what you're announcing in the media yesterday, to look like for young people, for these kids who are going to enroll in high school, super, can't wait, they're going to get their own dinar. Don't let this, because of poverty, because of poverty, because of unemployed parents, because of half a million people in Serbia who work for guaranteed personal income, for a minimum. This will be a bait for children from such families. To solve the misery of going and learning these simple jobs, to learn to be physical workers, and among them there are probably many children who would be excellent doctors, programmers, lawyers, economists, etc. This is one big scam that you should never, in any way, have the congregation majority not to adopt. We must bear in mind the terrible statistics, Minister, that in Serbia every fifth citizen over 15 is without a primary school, and we are now pushing through this dual education to be barely with primary school, and what they will learn with 20% of the time spent at school through this dual education. They won't learn anything, and they won't have a job. That's what those kids need to know. These companies that bring their own, open their facilities, what Vukic opens every day in Serbia, they leave as soon as they spend the money the state gives them, they leave. They're getting fired, and they're getting fired, and let's just say they're getting some new people. This is how you try to unpreparedly destroy the future generations of our young people. You're saying this has nothing to do with "sugars"? It has nothing to do with "shuvary," but "shuvary" was an experiment and this is an experiment. "Smuzzlers" have failed the experiment and this will be a failed experiment and it really needs to be spoken out loud and clear. In Serbia, 6.5% of people have a college degree. In these diplomats and those bought at the fast food kiosks. You know it's in Serbia to buy a diploma no simpler, so someone has a degree, I don't know exactly what it says, what it's called and where it's eventually ended. So, under these conditions, only 6% is college diplomas in Serbia. Minister, we must create conditions for children to be educated by young people in Serbia. We must not be formally educated, and essentially uneducated, so that those from the EU can manipulate some future generations and therefore order you and order you to pass such laws. They need those who have a degree, they don't know exactly what they are, but then someone there very easily manipulates him and says, "Hey, you're a schooled man, you can do it and you can do it, so he'll do the worst possible job." Drag this law, Minister, for your sake, for your career, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, for children who have to be trained for serious experts, not for physical workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23091	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23092	I can't withdraw, Your Honor, because you're wrong. Physical and simple labour and completion of primary school, and course, and informal education, here we are talking about three and four-year models, with work and school at the same time. Processes happen in school, in the right class only one day in practice. As the student is older, the number of lessons increases. When we speak 20% and 80%, it's just the ratio of professional subjects, not the general education. So that formula looks different. Is it the economy that we expect and want, so it's not safe at this point and we're not talking about 80% of the students in secondary vocational education, but we're talking about one minimum percent, about 10%, how much we just need to reach. At 6.5%, we are really where we should be, but the fact is that the division of work in every country, including Serbia, has various levels of education and various levels of qualifications, it is well known to you. Will they only choose the poor? Well, he won't. For the poor there are good scholarships, there are good housing in the home, etc. When it comes to the role of the speciality of high school, there are also specialities in secondary schools. Also, information routes in electrical schools have that attribute. So it's settled, and it's gonna get rid of it. The relationship with parents should be built up and therefore these municipal councils are imagined. Their role must not be dominant, nor be underestimated. As far as modernism is concerned, I get at least blue, but I'm not even so worked out that I don't see if any of us came up with any better, and then when you take some model or method that's good, but just as a method, not as a whole program, then something entangles your own. There's a time when someone takes it from us. Yesterday, for example, he was the minister of Republika Srpska and they want me to come to Banja Luka to help them with various models that we've been doing here, as from reformed high school, which we will do with great pleasure. When it comes to the protection of children's data, you'll remember that law that we've recently passed, it's based on a uniquely educated number, this job, which will be the protection of data through schooling of children from preschool to study. Special programs are only models that school can help, entrenched itself, methods. For example, Montesori is applied in many schools, because there is an association where teachers, for example, train teachers to learn by some method through some processes of the game of adoption. Which is very tempting, so whether she invented an Italian, or a Serbian, anyone else for the whole story doesn't matter. We're all we do, thanks to our domestic experts, our local minds. So far, 75m euros have entered Serbia's education, as far as I know from the EU. I'd like someone to show me where. We've only worked this year with budget funds and with the help of companies that are here in our area, for everything we've been trying to further innovate or accelerate, and with experts that we respect that our people have proven in our institutions, so don't have a dilemma here, I think the same thing. The use of language is regulated by system law and that's something we've been doing again in roof law. I'm sorry that when we passed those two laws, we couldn't do everything together. It's too bulky and now it's bulky, I agree with you. So these three laws and pre-school, primary and secondary are a compliance with the system law, and it's necessary to do that, because only then go sublegal acts. All these questions that are not regulated, nor here, must be regulated from around 200 regulations, from normatives, from the preparation, the equipment of schools, the surface and all other conditions, and beyond. So we can have a discussion of whatever it is you're here to discuss, but I appreciate a lot of the things you've said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23093	Thank you. Mr. Orlicu, you want a replica of the presentation of your colleague Radeta. Mentioning the name of the party president, is that right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23094	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, just for mentioning the party president. In a sentence that seems to me to include some investment, subsidies, so it is also mentioned how many jobs, new jobs, through subsidy programmes, and how many secret results. It seems to me that this is where it was said -- that these companies came here to make use of the money they received through state subsidies, and how they exploit it, that's how they leave. If we understood what was said, that we understood one another and why it wasn't true. First of all, I am glad that no one in Serbia is having a dilemma about how he dealt with this issue and how the former regime managed to deal with it. It's no longer a secret to anyone, that hundreds of thousands of jobs are lost for their vaccine. Lost by no expertise, no knowledge, a boastful attitude towards man's fate, and we'll certainly discuss it here today, because they must be very concerned about what's happening today, and they don't look back on what they did on their own. I'm glad it's no one's question, which is clear to everyone. What's going on today? If we are asking over 140 new jobs, achieved and earned in Serbia over the past three years, if we are talking about some 60 new production plants and factories, for which the president of the state is personally credited, Alexander Vukic, how lasting and how much this means to the country, not by heart, but to read. Here, in the 27th year, a survey was published. The research done by the World Bank for the needs of our Ministry of Economy, and this research says this – by analysing the business of these companies that received subsidies, we have come to the conclusion that the total amount of expected public revenues is 511.8m euros and 4,08 times the project appropriations for the observed period. As much on the subject as it means. One more sentence and this is what I end up with, Mr. Chairman. The expected time to return incentives through public revenues is 14 months, so let the citizens of Serbia say themselves whether these companies were shut down after 14 months. It's all clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23095	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth. Right on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23096	Replica Minister, I'm not going to replicate my colleagues because I'm going to ask these questions to whoever's in charge of answering, they're the Prime Minister, ministers, etc. Minister Sarčević, we've been quite clear on this subject, but you have another concept. It's a decision of course, I don't believe your personal, likely decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We repeat, you have a bad concept, at least when it comes to dual education. When you talk about it and when you've been presenting certain data before, you should bear in mind that, unfortunately, we are the first in Europe to be functionally illiterate. First in Europe, 50% of adults are functionally illiterate. Do you think they'll be functionally written by these children who will be educated through this dual education? He won't. It'll all come out as functionally illiterate. In this sense, we are telling you not to continue to bring us down below the level of these modern European countries. We're smart people, we're intelligent. Create conditions for children to get schooled. Don't, this dual education, believe me, is no schooling. Well, classes end with various crafts at folk universities and become great masters. We don't mind who wants to do it, it's honorable business, but this bait you've thrown through this law will take people, children from poor families to go to school where they won't be educated. As for what you said, to be called to help Republika Srpska, help Republika Srpska all in every way and you have our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23097	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, National MP Natasha Sp. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23098	I am reporting by article 27 and by article 107 because we are obliged to protect the dignity of the National Assembly, and you too, Mr Milicevic, if you are sufficiently directed to certain problems in the cities of Serbia, and if you are not, here, I will help you, so that you know about the future. Namely, you would have to warn your colleague Orlic, who responded to Radeti's replica, if he knew and you were to warn him when he said it wasn't all as colorful and wonderful as he wanted to present it. In Kragujevac, where Fiat is originally...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23099	My colleague Jovanovic, don't, please...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23100	Let me finish. It's important for you to learn as chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23101	My colleagues, Jovanovic, I will allow you to report and point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I ask you not to use it in communication with your colleague Orlic, or not to abuse or replicate your colleague Orlic. Please show me what the basis is and tell me what I hurt the Rules of Procedure in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23102	You don't have to react to every reaction from the ruling party. You're a man of your own, and you have experience in the presidency. I'm talking to you, and that's why I'm telling you, so you'll know. Every time they make a lie, and they are obliged to speak, the Messengers of the people, you are obliged to warn them. Fiat had 3,200 employees, and now there are 900 fewer and Mr. Minister must know that no child under this dual education law, I guarantee you, Mr. Minister, is going to get a dinar from an Italian factory in Kragujevac, because they take out 12 million every month for training workers, pay no taxes on profits and pay nothing to the state of Serbia. So, we're going to have these employers, and that's what Mrs. Radeta said very precisely and meaningfully, so that someone will come forward and say they're smart and they're talking about something that doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23103	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. A little while on that basis, I let my colleague Radetta replicate and she got an extra two minutes to explain the minister. I don't think there's any need, really, by pointing out a breach of the Rules of Procedure to get into dialogue and to replicate the minister. You have quite enough time for a parliamentary group and the debate has just begun. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23104	Respected Serbian citizens, robbed and bereaved by SNS and SPS, I am extremely pleased to lead the controversy with Minister Sarcevic, one of the few ministers in the current government who presented some good ideas during his term. When I criticize him, and very harshly, he knows that I've always been the first to support the good things he's said or done, from the introduction of student uniforms to some other topics, so this is an open controversy between him and me, and I think it's useful for the common good. That's what I'm gonna do. I'm going to say what's right and what's wrong and I think it's the only right approach to have someone who represents the opposition in Serbia right now. Mr. Minister, what is the basic problem with this whole set of educational laws, and you have also shown that you are faster, stronger, better, more skilled than other ministers who need years to pass any system law in this home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you have at least stepped out and said – here I think that and this is my set of laws, and whether it's good or bad, we'll see. In that sense, I really congratulate you, because unlike other ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who have been ministers for years and have never passed any system law in their area, you have done so in about a year of your work. What's the problem here, though, is that you couldn't, you couldn't, or you couldn't, for any reason, face the real educational problems. You have practically avoided real problems to deal with other problems, or other problems to avoid real problems. Of course, the basic problem facing the state of Serbia is the white plague and the demographic disappearance of the Serbian people. The second biggest problem is the departure of young, highly educated and highly qualified people abroad. For me, it was a brilliant recent statement by the minister without the portfolio of Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, that she first found out that we have a problem with demographic disasters, which only speaks of the men who are our ministers today, who accept certain ministerial duties they do not know anything about. So I draw attention that we first have to solve this problem, and then deal with any other problem. In the sphere of these laws you're talking about here, we have a number of other extraordinary problems that you haven't even mentioned. For example, in preschool education, we have a problem with groups of kindergarten children, who are too numerous, about very difficult working conditions for kindergarten teachers, small kindergarten teachers' salaries. Of course, there is a huge number of places in preschool kindergartens. These are real problems, especially in Belgrade, in Novi Sad, major cities, which are simply not solved yet. One of the biggest problems certainly is Serbia's education, and the amount of earnings paid by educational workers in Serbia, as the most educated layer of the population in Serbia, which unfortunately still has an average salary below the average salary in Serbia, which is a scandal over scandals, and that only speaks of the country's relationship, or authorities towards education in Serbia. Two things you certainly shouldn't have touched, and these were bought diplomas and doctoral and other works that were plagiarized, because you have colleagues in the Government of the Republic of Serbia who made plagiarities of their doctoral works and of course you shouldn't have touched this deaf nest of truth about purchased diplomas at the top of the SNS. You should also not have touched the topic of party employment, including education and imposing homosexualism, gender equality and sexual orientation as something important, which is of no importance in the Constitution of the Serbian State at all. Of course, you have a problem in the government too, so you can't speak against something that is the basic orientation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, which is the promotion of homosexualism. So what is extremely important is that we pass a law that would prohibit the promotion of homosexuality to minors in Serbia, but I am sure that you must never initiate it. It's just, you're a gay-friendly government and it's not realistic for you to stop what you really need to prevent, and it's just a promotion...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23105	Mr. Obradovic, I ask you, through your discussion, to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly and to respect the representatives of the promoters, in particular Mr. Sarčević's case. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23106	Thank you, Chairman. I understand you're ashamed of being gay-friendly government, but you are such a government and I don't see... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23107	Do you want to talk about a set of legislative proposals on the agenda? I suggest you take another look at the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Can you respect that minimum of culture and tolerance? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23108	Thank you, Chairman. I am glad that the citizens of Serbia can see what they cannot talk about in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, what's actually a fundamental problem with the dual education law is to lower the level of general education and literacy of our students. I don't want you to go one way to Western education that destroyed public education, reduced to the level of extreme illiteracy of primary education in public schools, to actually profit from private schools and to have private schools as schools for elites, and in public schools only poor people and those who need to be future cheap labour in neoliberalism and capitalism were educated. I think you have these legal solutions and how you work to lower the general literacy of the educational level and the society of the knowledge and education of the nation provided for in the Education Strategy. In practice, you give up the Education Strategy and enter into one completely different sphere by, for example, giving a maximum of 30% in secondary vocational education in three years of secondary vocational education, and a maximum of 40% of general education in four years of secondary vocational education. So less than half of our children's education will be dedicated to general education, which clearly states that you tend to be less educated, or more adapted to the market for cheap labour by a foreign owner. I think it's also very controversial for these 80% professional classes that will take place outside of school. What's the school gonna do if 80% of professional classes are going to take place outside of school? The role of the Chamber of Commerce, which assumes the role of the ministry, is also disputed, and it begins practically to deal with the teaching and educational work, which is unimaginable and illogical, as well as the role of the inspector you predicted. One big and important question – whose burden will this education and this professional teaching take place with the employer? Do you burden the employer or the burden of the state? Both are in trouble to be additionally burdened. What you could certainly notice is that the Serbian Movement of the Dveri, or our parliamentary group, has not submitted amendments to the type – it is deleted or otherwise, when it comes to the law on dual education, because we are not in principle against the law. We are against the way you enforce this law and through a series of amendments we have pointed to everything that is problematic. Yeah, you need to connect the school to the economy. Yes, education processes should be adapted to the labour market. Yes, there should be as much professional practice as possible, in order for young people to be trained to get to work as quickly as possible. It's all right. The only problem is how you're gonna do it with this law. Where is your domestic economy, Mr. Minister? Where are your scientific domestic institutes that have been shut down in some previous period and destroyed in every way, that foreign companies and foreign goods and that foreign technological innovations could flood our market without us being competitive in any field of domestic intellectual development? So you can't apply dual education in the domestic economy, but only to foreign owners, or foreign companies that your government favors in Serbia, giving them money from the budget, to foreigners who come, for every new job. I've always asked a very simple question – why don't you give our money out of the budget to our domestic businessmen, and then they have some kind of obligation to get into the dual education system, that they return something to their own country, that this instructor who's going to deal with this kid at school is motivated to deal with him, not to sign something that he's done without seeing him. So, to ask for something from a domestic entrepreneur, you have to give him something. What have you given him since Alexander Vukitch came to power? I'll tell you. You gave billions of euros from our budget to foreign companies that came to Serbia, and crumbs or almost nothing domestic and agricultural, which should actually be the foundation of this society. This country is ruled by foreign banks. You have destroyed the entire domestic banking industry, which has no support from this country. In such an ambience you cannot succeed in dual education, that is, in such an ambience of dual education, Mr. Minister, is a dual education for the cheap workforce of your foreign friends from multinational companies, who come here with the lowest jobs, for which you are actually starting to study cheap labour. So, your idea of dual education is for Serbs to be slaves to a foreign boss, that is to turn the whole of Serbia into a country where we will all work as a cheap workforce with your Arab friends, Germans and others, to whom you donate not only money from our budget, but also our agricultural land, free infrastructure, tax exemption, and, especially, you do not charge them taxes on extra profits from this country and even falsely display your business with losses and amounts of money abroad, and this country allows it, because you cannot oppose your friends with foreign bosses. It's a problem with your concept of dual education. That's why we can't support him in these particulars. In principle, we can agree that we have as much professional practice as possible, but that, Mr. Minister, is done in another way. This is through the law of trade, which this government has been unable to bring for six years. We are the only state in Europe that has no law on trade, which has not solved the problem of craft associations, which has not solved the problem of the craft chamber. It solves dual education, Mr. Minister, and you didn't anticipate it, nor do you have in mind, because here you favour the Chamber of Commerce, which is the party organisation of the SNS, which has otherwise served all the authorities, so it serves both your authorities and the Chamber of Commerce, you will have control of this system, instead of giving it to those who are actually closest to the system of dual education, and to you it is clear that these are craftsmen, these are craftsmen's associations, they're crafts chambers, it's a law of trade, which you didn't bring because you're one incompetent authority. What's the additional problem, Mr. Minister, with dual education is how you're going to implement it in small areas. How in those destroyed local self-governments that have no businesses, no factories, no industrial plants, practically no economy, how are you going to organize dual education there? That's what I'm talking about. First, demographically rebuild Serbia, that we have a student at all, and then we need to restore domestic economy and agriculture, that we have jobs and domestic production, then only then restore the craftsmanship and introduce a dual education that would only make sense. Like this, you're just training kids for cheap labor with a foreign boss. In the end, two other things that have been very characteristic to me and I am obliged to say a few words about it. The first concerns what you mentioned yesterday, that you would coordinate the health system with the primary school and the obligations the school should have according to, so you mentioned the vaccination, which was very characteristic of me. I must inform you, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the vast number of parents in Serbia, that we are very, very skeptical of the system of vaccination in Serbia for a very simple reason. There are no normal parents in Serbia who would not want to vaccinate their child against infectious diseases, there is no such thing. What's the problem? The problem is that parents in Serbia do not trust vaccines coming from abroad, which do not go through any control of reference laboratories here, because we do not have domestic vaccines and we cannot be sure of the quality of vaccines imported from abroad. So you need to understand the mistrust and suspicion of parents in Serbia towards vaccination, not because parents are against the health of their children, but because they are... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23109	Sorry, buddy, it's not me. Sign up again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23110	Mr. Chairman, I understand that when I criticize the government that I am miraculously disfellowshipped by microphones, but let's understand that this was really a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23111	It wasn't really intentional.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23112	We hope so, it's a random mistake. So, Mr. Minister, I hope you understand what I was talking about in the name of a huge number of parents in Serbia who are really rightly concerned about the correctness of the vaccine in Serbia, which are new vaccines that are being introduced, which we very little know about and how to get back to the production of the domestic vaccine, because don't forget what the response was to the vaccination when we had our own vaccine. Of course we're all for the vaccination of our children against infectious diseases, but a domestic vaccine that we know for sure what its quality is and whether it's correct. In the end, one very important thing. I must inform you, Mr. Minister, as a professor of Serbian literature and language that there is no Bosniak language, however, such as neither Montenegrin nor Croatian, but this is now another topic. These are all variants of Serbian. I ask you to consider the situation that is currently happening in the Raška region and never call that area Sandzak, because it is an occupation term from the time of the Turkish government. It is the Raška area and the Raška administrative district of the Serbian state, as ordered by our territorial organisation of the state. And to inform you, the great problem both teachers and children have in Novi Pazar and Sjenica and Tutin, because teachers of Serbian nationality are obliged to teach in the invented Bosniak language, as are children of Serbian nationality obliged to attend lectures in the fictional Bosniak or Bosnian language. I don't care what they call it, it doesn't exist, it's just a variant of the Serbian language, and all the linguists of the world know it, it's the basic truth of language science. Only politicians, who are allowed one fictional language to exist in Serbia's education and education system, can afford, I would say, such a scientific nonsense, to invent a language that does not exist. So in this sense, I ask you to take into account linguistic facts in this story of native languages or languages of national minorities, rather than just political facts when someone wants to invent a language for their fictional nations and fictional states. So, please, let's stick to basic linguistic and scientific facts about language here. Of course, each of these fictional languages has its own features, but only as a variant of the Serbian language. In that sense, I think I've been very open to saying what's good and what might be a good idea, but the practice of achieving what you're doing is very problematic. First of all, because you are limited, because you are sitting in a government that is not a Serbian government, but a government that acts exclusively in the interests of foreign companies, foreign banks, foreign embassies, and therefore you cannot manage Serbia's education system on your own, nor solve these accumulated issues, but you must do as you are told at this point: foreign companies in Serbia need cheap labour, train children to be a cheap workforce with a foreign owner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23113	Minister Mladen Sarcevic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23114	I'll agree with you on something, which is that we need more children in Serbia and we can't solve it so quickly. And if it happens fast, they have to grow, and so long the schooling has to last. Until that happens, we have to do what we have to do. If I exclude stories of vaccination, I really think it is the issue of Minister Loncar, such as the law on teaching, which is in preparation, the question of Minister Knezevic. We noted why dual education is in the system of secondary vocational education as a sub-categories, because it covers the third and fourth degrees of education, so I think that's a sufficient answer. I am personally a Serb from both mother and father, deep in the roots, and therefore I am very happy and do not think that I am worth anything more than anyone else who lives in Serbia, and indeed respects what geography and history say, and our positive policy to call them what they are officially called. I'll always stick to the official names, the law, whoever likes it or not, whether it's your will, trade union, whoever it is. I was so raised, I learned to work here. When it comes to preschool, I completely agree, now as the Ministry of Education we are working to increase coverage, to reduce the group. I have initiated a ministerial group that, for this reason, to be honest, many local self-governments do not want the autonomy they have received and the decentralisation given to them cannot meet their obligations to preschool workers. I represent the interest of them returning to the Republic, and you can ask them that. That's where we get along again. In order to increase capacity, we are doing optimization of space, we are doing a different re-purpose and a 47m-euro loan is being adopted here that should serve, and it is well-invested money, excellent interest, so after a long time someone is seriously dealing with it. When it comes to other levels of education, I can't answer to your purchased diplomas, plagiarities or laws that we've adopted. There now they clearly say what I can undo, where I can get my license, and I'm going to do it, and now they need to solve other organs for the period that happened behind me. I don't have any problem with that. As for all other categories, I commend that you understand this category of dual education and that you present it well, but we have to agree on something. Also, I'm saying our economy isn't the way we want it to be. Let me tell you, the chamber is the best partner so far, but the employers' union and many others who are partners with us at the Socio-Economic Council, the manager's society, cannot be represented only by one side. I represent the interests of children. Contracts that are signed, everything else, which is jurisdiction, is the jurisdiction of the Educational Inspectorate there. So, the instructors that work, the coordinators that we've designed, there's not a single country where it has a dual model. The dual model is not just a question of Germany, Switzerland, Austria, it's best developed there and it's not just a matter of gastar children. It's absolutely wrong, so take the statistics there, how many of them go to the studies, who doesn't want to go. Go to Slovenians, you don't have to go any further, not everyone runs to study, but that's why they take 50-60 children from Serbia, so they're better educated than our children here. We make centres of excellence. It's over in Valjev, we talked, we're going to do three, four new technologies, but people think that there are different levels of education and work here. Not everyone is 100% in dual, for God's sakes. If we were to talk about high school Calculating us with general education courses, I ask you the other way around – what did we do with high school miracles, and the strategy says that high school should be a miracle, that 40% should be a high school coverage and that it finds much better solutions than it has found so far? You'll see the high school program that's been done, which will be very quickly exposed to the public. You'll see a completely different story that will lead to the rank of secondary vocational education, high school and dual as the smallest form of it. For that smallest form are the greatest demands and needs. They repeat once again, no one is forced to work, even if you are right, he chooses that, chooses the employer, chooses the parent, the real contract. It's the choices of life. I've worked my whole life for 15 years, studied and been a great student, and as a conductor, furniture editor, nothing bothered me to finish before the deadline, I needed the money. I understand the young man, and when we talk about the white plague, to ask something else -- how a child who finishes something that no one needs, so sits on the desk, so he goes to school, we know what he has to do for school, we can't clean it up, and we'll clean up what he's doing, waiting for a job he won't get. We will soon have on the portal Dositej what should not be entered because employers will give a statement, a survey after a year that workers have hired, which gives a good job contribution, from which colleges, higher vocational schools. Then when we have a ranking list, then it's a matter of choice, is someone so smart to get information on the Ministry of Education site that that college has seven years of waiting for a job, so he goes outside, so he digs canals, washes dishes. It's not that kind of expert, we don't have that many export experts, and maybe this guy's gonna start working, so we've got work-schooling in law. I don't think that's a shame. I think it's a category we've forgotten and I don't think we have a problem in that sense. The way we have to establish this is step by step. This is a law that provides for application now and in 2019. So the domestic economy is 50% included, we're looking for models, we've got intensive co-operation with 1,800 employers so far. What you're saying, people, you need to get out in the field, go to the factories, go to the companies. Personally, as long as I'm working, I won't let any student get any bad chance, I guarantee you that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23115	Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. ) Of course, the system is full, so we will honor anyone who is registered. He's got the advantage of hurting the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23116	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 107 has been injured. I think that now everyone sitting in this hall, the citizens of Serbia who are watching this transmission, could see the peak of Bosko Obradovic's political madness when he said that the state of Serbia is poisoning its own children and our doctors, who are here in the SNS parliamentary group and in other parliamentary groups, poisoning their own children by giving them vaccines from abroad that have not been properly controlled. I've never seen a higher level of political hatred for my own country in my life. What Mr. Bosko Obradovic said about language and linguistics and gave us lectures which languages exist, which do not exist and talk about bought diplomas, me if you ask, Mr. Minister, I think his diploma is controversial, because someone who is a professor of Serbian language and literature, and does not distinguish four accentes in Serbian has a serious problem in convincing me that his diploma is authentic, because Bosko Obradovic does not know how to accentuate words. It does not say "run", "speak", "go", "sit" etc. So, man can't say, he's a professor of Serbian language and literature, that there are four accentes -- long-range, long-range, short-circuited and short-circuited. That's what kids teach in elementary school. Now imagine Bosko Obradovic as a professor who does not know four accentes and should teach our children who accentes exist in Serbian. Bosko Obradovic is west in another paradox. Remember when Aleksandar Vukic opened the Teklas factory in Vladic's Han, Bosko Obradovic came the next day, took pictures outside the factory and said, "Here, this factory should be closed". Now he says, "What about small places where there are no factories?"
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23117	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23118	You decide what you want, whether you want factories in Vladic's Han, Bujanovac, in small towns, in Black grass, or you don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23119	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23120	I'm finishing up Mr. Milicevic, just to ask Mr. Bosko Obradovic and everyone else who teaches us investment lessons.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23121	Mr. Martinovic, just tell me if you want to...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23122	Tell us one single investor you brought to Serbia and tell me which job did you open for the citizens of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23123	Mr. Martinovic, just tell me, do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? That's what I was trying to ask you, and that's why I left the microphone on to answer me. (Alexander Martinovic: No. ) National MP Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23124	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 106, Article 107. Rules of Procedure. You, Mr. Chairman, have allowed Bosko Obradovic, in his speech, to constantly insult us. We who supported the government have been accused of choosing a "gay friendly" government. We were accused by a man who was building a gay parade party. So he's just the other side of that coin and you've let him insult us in such a rough way. Secondly, it is for the government of the Republic of Serbia, which I voted for to say it is not Serbian. That's what the man who violently entered this assembly said, with the help of the U.S. ambassador Scott. So without violence and without Scott he wouldn't have seen this assembly. Third, you let him charge us with robbery here. The other thing that he came in here with is the church. It's interesting that we're being accused of robbery by the one who robbed Hilandar. So someone who took 5,000 euros from the Hilandar priests, someone who came here on the wings of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, or his party, who sold the entire Serbian economy for 6.7 billion, accuses us of robbery. Next, he was here accusing of fake diplomas. He, who graduated from a member of Dveri's political council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23125	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. You don't want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Since, of course, you've been talking to me through the above-mentioned violation of the Rules of Procedure all the time, I'm just going to take the opportunity, just a few sentences. Of course, each of the MPs and each MP group has a position on certain issues. As chairman, we cannot predict what this attitude is and how the MP will speak about what is the topic of the current assembly. We can agree or disagree, but we can't predict how and how he'll speak. On the other hand, it is our obligation to allow everyone, and an authorised representative, but also any MP, to speak. That is the right of MPs and MPs of the opposition, and I fully agree with you that the moment the assessment is made that the dignity and reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been compromised, we should try to suggest. It's what I do reluctantly through sanctioning, i.e. Sometimes and justifiably, sometimes not, I say I hate to do it through sanctioning, but you noticed that through Mr. Obradovic's exposure, I tried several times to suggest to him when I felt that I had strayed from the topic that we still need to talk about a set of legal proposals under discussion. Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Yahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23126	Thank you. I thought I had the elements for replication, since both the Bosnian language and the Bosniak people were mentioned, but I can talk about a violation of dignity, since what we heard was at the very least...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23127	Just please, at first, which member of the Rules of Procedure are you calling for?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23128	Infringement of dignity, Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23129	The 107th was a short time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23130	Article 106, any one.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23131	He was also a member of 106.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23132	Can I have a replica, considering I've been mentioned?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23133	You can't get a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23134	All right, then a violation of dignity and a violation of national feelings.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23135	You must specify a colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23136	Article 109.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23137	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23138	Thank you. If you could just give me my time back. So these were basically, perhaps least said, elements of fascism, which we heard before from Mr. Obradovic, since he said there is no one language, and if there is no such language, then there is no such people. It's really strange to me that Mr. Obradovic, here, sitting next to him, can say that there is no Bosnian language, that there are no Bosniaks. For him, then, we don't exist as minority peoples in this space either. As a linguist, it is also strange to me that he has never heard of Serbian linguists, especially of Alexander Belic, who speaks of the Bosnian language, the existence of Bosnian language, that he has not heard of Isidor Sekulic, of Petra Kocic, who respects the Bosnian language and speak the language. So, the truth is that these languages have a common basis, but that they have their differences and certainly Bosnian language cannot be Serbian, as the Serbian language cannot be Bosnian. It's two different languages. I would like, in particular, that these are categories that are recognized by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that Bosniaks are recognised by this Constitution, that the language of their national community is recognised by this Constitution and that, of course, they have the right to education. That's why it's not true, and it's free to say, a lie that anyone is forcing children of Serbian nationality to attend classes in the Bosnian language in Sandzak, as no one is forcing children of Bosniak nationality to attend classes in Serbian, but respecting constitutional categories is respected, legal categories are respected, and of course everything else, if Bosko Obradovic has needs for linguistic debate, I am at his disposal to prove that there is a Bosnian language just as there is a Serbian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23139	Thank you. I made it up to you for 40 seconds, so you spoke longer. Do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the day of voting on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Mr. Bozovicu, you wanted a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23140	Thank you. Chairman, Article 103. So, we just need to agree whether we all respect and whether the Rules of Procedure apply to everything equally or to some things that don't apply to the Rules of Procedure. For a moment, Martinovic spoke for two minutes and 30 seconds. To him, I suppose, as well as the previous speaker, you compensated for some time, and I don't know how it is possible that opposition MPs are excluded from the microphone, that they have no right to replication, that they have no right to even two minutes to explain their violation of the Rules of Procedure, and on the other hand, you allow the ruling majority to, even through that time, abuse the Rules of Procedure, talk about everything, just not a breach of the Rules of Procedure? This is some kind of totally unfair behavior and I ask you to put us all in the same category, that what applies to us is also true for the ruling majority MPs, not that you obviously have two Rules of Procedures – one that applies to SNS and the other that applies to the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23141	Mr Bozovicu, you know very well that we have one Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, here I tell you, and you should also know when this Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was adopted and very well that you know him. There are no double arches and double standards in holding a session by neither the chairman nor the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is interesting to hear only when MPs speak, but you do not hear how the current topics are handled by individual MPs of the opposition. I'm asking you to react then and that in a specific case, you don't have double arches and double standards. It is true, I allowed Mr. Martinovic, because I interrupted him and insisted on answering the question whether he wanted the National Assembly in the voting day to make a statement about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure and I see absolutely nothing controversial about it, in order not to register again, that was the only reason. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Thank you, Mr. Bozovic. Mr. Obradovic, I've seen you come forward, but just for a moment, because at your presentation, we had first injuries to the Rules of Procedure, which were directed to me, and through the mention of the SNS, we now have the first replica by the authorised representative of the SNS. Mr. Orlic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23142	The aggressive protest we saw earlier, so that you, Mr. Minister and the gentlemen of the Ministry, may also know the people who are watching this have their reasons. Since I see that they detest those who have asked us to put ourselves in the same category, to hear them and everyone else. We, thank you very much for the offer, to be in the same category with this Bosko Obradovic, never want to. You want to find out for yourself. I don't know, I'm not sure you do, and you'll hear why. He's got this kind of behavior for his reasons. One is a direct cause and the other is a secret category. The immediate cause, ladies and gentlemen, will be that what was published in the daily press yesterday, and what brings this man directly into connection with Latvian ideology, with the ideology of anti-Semitism and crimes against his own people during World War II, is that it happens not to be something Serbia will talk about, so he is here free, bold, brazen, insulting, trying to hurt others, to talk about what he said today, not the shame that was revealed yesterday. It's a direct occasion, here's exactly what we're talking about, Mr. Minister and gentlemen of the Ministry, that's what this man thinks about Dosite and Vuk Karadzic. This is what he said about Dosite – that it is a pseudo-enlightener, that the spiritual fruits of the dossier are extra-Church and Atheism, and Vuk Karadzic, his liquids, implies as a wolf's, so that you know that. It is a godless nation based on materialism. Both are anti-Serbian cultural passwords. This is said by a man who is a professor of Serbian language, who calls on Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic, almost every day. That's what he really means at the session where we discuss education, that he knows all of Serbia. This was published by the magazine "New Sparks in 2000" and represented such ideology, and that lasting reason I end up with, when it is known what the Latvians think of democracy about the multi-party and the Assembly, it is clear what can be expected of it in the House of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23143	Time. Thank you. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23144	Madam Chairman, first question for you, if I am of the five previous speakers mentioned and named by name and last name, how many replicas do I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23145	You've got a line on the show.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23146	So, five of them called me, and I expect to have a chance at five replicas, each of them. First of all, what is most interesting and important to me is this controversy I led with the minister and I am glad that the minister recognized in my words and quite constructive and positive, and I especially liked that broom of his that he wanted to seduce in Serbian education towards bought diplomas, but as I said, Mr. Minister, you must not go backwards because you would have to start from the government of the Republic of Serbia where you are sitting and that is the problem. You're restricted. You can't even implement what you want and that's your main problem. Another of your main problems is that you practically educate children to be workers either abroad or cheap labour with a foreign owner. You're training nurses that you send to Germany free of charge. So that's the problem with your dual and every other education. How many domestic companies of the 1800 employers you mention, and how can a domestic company work in Serbia when you give all the money from the budget to foreign investors? I did close that so-called. The foreign investor's factory, not the next day, but the same day that Alexander Vukic opened it, because it was a lie that some new workers would be hired in the first place, and it's all, as always when it comes to Alexander Vukic, one big act and a media show. I think that this particular problem is what the esteemed counterpart in the Raška region was talking about, because he should know that neither the American nor Australian languages exist, but exclusively the English language in its variants, in the US and Australia, there is no Austrian language, but only German language, so neither Croatian nor Montenegrin, nor Bosnian language, are already variants of the Serbian language, and all the linguists in the world know it. I agree that there is no Bosniak nation, it was also correctly quoted by me, although I did not say it, for the simple reason that it is the Serbs of Muslim religion, and the fictional political nation of Bosniakism is just one political project that is imposed on us.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23147	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23148	I hope I get another replica now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23149	You won't get it now, perhaps further into discussion. (Bosko Obradovic: I asked for all the exhibitions. I have no desire to listen to insults. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23150	Thank you. So, I'm re-experienced here as a member of the minority people, as a Bosniak of shocking things that someone who should represent the majority people, this is how fascists treat other peoples. According to this ideology, there should be no one else in this country but Serbs. This country is a multiethnic state, in this country live next to the Serbs, all other nations and they are equal in constitution and law. Also, it's outrageous that anyone can tell anyone that there is no such thing as a single nation. I would also, if I were in a position or if I were at Mr. Obradovic's level, but I am someone who respects the other and the other, and therefore I would like to and ask the Constitution and the law that everyone else treats the manna as well. So the Bosniaks are a people, the Bosnian language exists, and of course, as many as there are Serbian people and Serbian languages, we have lived and lived in harmony for centuries. We live intertwined with each other and I think that's the advantage of both Serbs and Bosniaks, and always coming across someone who's trying to break that harmony. I ask the majority Serbian people and majority Serbian MPs here in parliament not to allow anyone to break that long-standing, centuries-old, good neighbourly and benevolent connection between Serbs and Bosniaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23151	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23152	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs Gojkovic, member 107 for the second time. Yesterday I invited Balša Bozovic, and today I invite Mr. Bosko Obradovic, come on, bring more of your indexes, you who are the fake Serbian elite. Bring them here to the Assembly, I'll bring the index of my party's president, Alexander Vukic, I'll bring my index, and we'll compare you and us who know nothing, who was a better student and who better learned the sciences and colleges he studied. Please, there's nothing to be afraid of. You're talking about fake diplomas when he bought his PhDs. Here, tomorrow session assembly, I bring my index, I bring the Vucic index, you bring yours, so let the people see who was the better student and who was really the elite in Serbia and who wasn't. Mr. Obradovic, I would never boast of my ignorance, all the companies that come to Serbia are Serbian firms. The APRs are registered. So no foreign company as such can operate on our market, but must register in the APR. Every company that's registered in the APR is a domestic company, why? Because it is subject to the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, it pays taxes and contributions to the Republic of Serbia. Just to let you know, since you don't seem to be notified, and neither is that Kostunica of yours who invented you, there's no extra profit tax. The category in Serbia's tax system does not exist. Since there is no tax, there is no investor tax to free. As for the money, who gave it to, you were invented by the DSS and the government of Vojislav Kostunica, who privatised everything in Serbia, among other things, the factory in Vladic's Han. At a time when Kolubara was in the largest debt of nearly 10 billion dinars, you received 4.2 million dinars in 2004. So much for robbing Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23153	Just slow down, let me see with the deputy secretary, since I wasn't in this part of the debate, see who he's replicated to. Just a minute. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23154	Thank you, President of the Assembly. I suggest, Mr. Martinovic, that you bring along the index, and your property card and Mr. Vukic's property card and his brother, and all the officials of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the last five years, and that we compare how they live at the top of the SNS and how other Serbian citizens live. Since what you've done for the past five years is that you've had five salaries while you've been cutting salaries and education workers we're talking about today, the police, the military and everyone who works in the state administration. As far as pensioners are concerned, you've reduced their pensions, three years in a row, you've taken over 600m euros to allow your tycoons to build and build apartments of 3,500 euros per square. So, you let your friends from the United Arab Emirates build apartments in "Belgrade on Water" that cost 3,500 euros per square, so I ask you, besides you, Alexander Vukic and his brother, who in Serbia can buy and afford it? Now, that's what we're going to compare tomorrow, if you have the courage. Whether someone was one or another student, of course it's important, but I'm also very interested in what your teachers think of you, what my teachers think of me, and whether you're ashamed of who you are today and whether my teachers are proud of me, the way I am today. It's also one of the things we can very much compare, and even ask those who are members of the SNS. So you don't have to use the phone to call your superior and ask him what you have to say, but look me in the eye and talk to me, like any normal MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23155	MP Balsa Bozovic, don't be so sensitive. So I agree absolutely with the motion of both MPs to bring in diplomas and property tickets tomorrow, but you who are discussing. Wider and further relatives and party presidents, if you like, can compare it, I don't mind, but publicly, but it's not a topic. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23156	I agree. Here, I accept what Balsa Bozovic said. So tomorrow we'll bring the indexes and the property cards, both mine and Alexander Vukic and his brother. As for "Berograda on Water", Mr Bozovic, I can't buy an apartment in "Belgrade on Water" because I don't have that kind of money, but you can, and your father can. Your future wife can, too, because she sells apartments in "Belgrade on Water", and I don't sell them. It wasn't my father who created every possible public institution in Belgrade while Gilas was mayor, it was your father. Correct me if I'm wrong. It is not just you who put Belgrade in charge of a billion and 200m euros, which you have completely devastated, which you have ruined, that you lecture us on how the city of Belgrade is run. You who privatized all the living, you who privatized the state. The biggest crime that took place during the DS is that we had a private state, the private state of Boris Tadic and the private city of Belgrade, Dragan Dilas. Now you want us back at that time, and the SNS won't let you. I remind you, Mr. Bozovic, tomorrow please bring your index to see your average grade, where you studied, at which college you studied, so let's see if you're really elite and bring your property card and we'll see who has more and who has less after entering the policy world. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23157	I'm going to use my right to be a bit of a president. Can I help you? (Marco Djurisic: Replica. You don't have the right to a replica. (Marko Djurisic: He mentioned the party president. ) Not from this party, he mentioned it with capacity from DS. We can't go through history now. (Marko Djurisic: How can he get a word every time to mention the party president's name? Don't, please, where would that take us? Look, we've all been to some parties. Article 27 says the same thing and the right to a replica, Article 104 says that's up to me. You can yell all you want. Does anyone ever want to talk on the subject, or should I go on the list? There's nothing you can do with me. Take it easy, first what I asked, and then my songs, my dreams, my wishes. So, what did I ask, do any of the MPs present want to speak on the subject? (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. There is no replica, because it says so in the Rules of Procedure. I guess that's how much you learned. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Read, you have so much time, so many times you go out and go in to read the Rules of Procedure. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Can't hurt the Rules of Procedure? He didn't mention him as party president, he mentioned him as DS President. (Marco Djurisic: Why is there no damage to the Rules of Procedure? You can't all answer on that basis right now. If you introduced that principle, you'd never end it. (Marko Djurisic: If Martinovic can report for the president's mention, then so can I. Don't yell at me. (Marco Djurisic: How else can I speak to you? ) The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23158	Dear Presidents of the Assembly, Mr Ministers with Associates, fellow MPs, today we have before us the proposals of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Three System Laws on Pre-school, Primary and Secondary Education and Education, which arises from the roofal Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which we have recently adopted, then the Proposal for a Law on Dual Education and the Three International Contracts. The picture of a country is a system of education. What is the system of education, so is the state itself. These, as can be observed, are aimed at improving the reform of the overall education system of the proposed laws recently adopted here, as well as the draft laws that we will adopt at this session, which completes the legal framework for the improvement of the education system in the Republic of Serbia and continues to begin the work of recovery and reform of the entire society. In the day to vote, the PS-NSS-USS parliamentary group will support each of these proposals with good reasons, because this package of laws is a normative upgrade of the education and education system in Serbia, because it contains a whole series of good, concrete solutions and because this package of laws represents a concrete step forward in implementing and adopted education development strategies in Serbia by 2020. In my address, I will refer to the proposal for a law on dual education, as I am sure that the application of this law will bring new strength and energy into the existing education systems and significantly affect the reduction of youth unemployment, as well as the development of the economy itself in Serbia. Due to all this, dual education for Serbia's future is one of the most important topics. The concept of dual education is adapted to the weather, needs and conditions in which the state of Serbia is present, using all the experiences of countries that have developed a dual education system and where this education system has produced excellent results. When we talk about the results of countries where dual education has been introduced, we must note that they have a youth unemployment rate below 10%, while we have this rate twice as high, and that is why we are obliged to focus seriously on solving this problem. True, the government of the Republic of Serbia in its responsible policy over the past five years has managed to reduce the unemployment rate from 26% to 12%, but there is still an open problem among young people, as 62% of young people have no working experience, while 150,000 are neither schooled nor working. In addition to all of this, we must note that there are open jobs in Serbia today for skilled labour, primarily in craft technical activities, where employers cannot employ a suitable position since it does not exist in Serbia. Because of this, the intention is to create better conditions for employment for young people through the adoption of this law and the introduction of dual education, to make their knowledge gained through dual education practical and faster application. The dual system has proved by applying in other countries that it is a successful model of education that allows young people to have direct contact and direct inclusion in the world of work. We currently have a situation in Serbia that individual employers cannot reach the necessary middle-skillers, and in most cases they have no capacity, no own resources, no time for their additional training, which has resulted in a significant number of unfulfilled jobs for many years. In the current economic situation, this phenomenon is not negligible. Unemployment affects poverty growth, especially in the segment of the youth population, as well as the growing decline in birth rate. Thus, the introduction of this innovative model of education should at the same time solve how the company's problem with the lack of skilled labour, and also affect a significant increase in the number of young people's employees, but also reduces the costs that the state spends on vocational education. This model will give young people a chance to decide their future, to decide whether to get a job at one of the companies where they went to school, to start their own business, or to continue their education at one of the colleges. Improving the quality of practical teaching, which is achieved through dual education, i.e. learning through work, will create and encourage entrepreneurial spirit and self-employment, as students will be able to learn a lot in the real working environment that they do not learn at school, acquire various skills, be able to develop a entrepreneurial spirit and may decide to start their own business after schooling. It is commendable that when employers are included in the dual education system, the opportunities of employers themselves will be considered to implement the curricula and the programme, i.e. Sub-legislative acts will prescribe the conditions that economic operators must fulfil in order to have the right to educate students, i.e. what work should be done and which material and technical opportunities and conditions should be met and, of course, what may be most important in all of this, to meet the conditions regarding the existence of an adequate number of staff in charge of instructional work with students. This is diametrically different from the applicable Law on secondary education and education, which regulates only practical teaching and professional practice that school can achieve in collaboration with companies, institutions and other organisations, or other legal entities, but is not specified in the conditions under which this cooperation should take place, or under which conditions learning is conducted through work in the real working environment. The newspaper this way of education brings us is a registration policy, which guarantees that all participants in the dual system are trained for the jobs required on the labour market, so that the motivation for the dual system also has participants, as well as employers. We all need to be aware that we already need to cross over once with decades of practice that jobs in craft production and jobs are not considered a humiliation, but rather as an opportunity for young people to train themselves to work qualityly, to get a job, to start making a decent living, to live off their own work, and thus to become independent, to form a family, to get offspring and live a life of a decent man. All of this is the reason why the crafts are still very popular in Europe's most economically powerful countries and worlds and provide excellent opportunities for employment, opening and achieving the perspective of additional education, gaining feelings of independence and a number of other things that are missing for young people in Serbia at the moment. For all this I have stated, and many more reasons why my colleagues from the Parliament Club will be talking about during the debate, we will support both this proposal and the other laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23159	Thank you. (Bosko Obradović: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! Please, you have to sign in to give you my word. You don't have a card, then you couldn't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Bosko Obradovic: I have searched before, you have not given me. ) The word is Nenad Konstantinović. (Bosko Obradovic: You did not give me a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I am looking for it for 15 minutes. ) I cannot discuss with people who do not know the basic rules of conduct, which is that they must be present at the session. Point, I have nothing to discuss. (Bosko Obradovic: Fifteen minutes asking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which you are not giving me. ) The word is Nenad Konstantinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23160	Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, respected ministers, representatives of the Ministry, today, unfortunately, under one point of the agenda, we are discussing four important education laws, but we are also discussing a convention that discusses the security of fuel and radioactive waste management. The only link between dual education and radioactive waste could be if you plan on having students go through the employer's work and a clean nuclear reactor. Well, if they need to be able to clean up nuclear reactors, then it makes sense to discuss that too. Unfortunately, these laws are all subject to an emergency procedure, I suppose, because we would have insufficient time to analyse the laws and to submit amendments to correct everything that is bad in these laws, and the consequence will, of course, be that the Ministry, as the last time we discussed the Law on Higher Education and the basis of the education system, cannot respond to all amendments in one or two days and then all amendments will refuse, no matter how meaningful these amendments are. We believe that the most important topic in Serbia, and education is the most important topic in Serbia, cannot and should not be discussed by emergency procedure, that education reform cannot be carried out by emergency procedure, but that it is necessary to agree on it, both those who deal with politics and trade unions and parents and students. So there's no deal, but that's why it's proposed what the government thinks or seems to have to do at this point. We don't have oil in Serbia, we don't have gold, we don't have diamond. The only thing we have is people, and that's the most important resource. We need to invest in these people, in order to get better knowledge, better knowledge, as you say -- competences, that they can get involved in life when they finish primary and high school, so they can do better paid jobs and make profits in Serbia, not be cheap labour. It's our interest as citizens, it's the interest of this country. So, Serbia as a knowledge country and Serbia as a country that will attract foreign investment, but that a foreign investor employs people through high-paid jobs, and I repeat again -- not as a cheap workforce. When we talked about roof laws, so the Law on the Foundations of the Education System, I realized that the Minister's intentions were good and that the objectives that were declared good. And now these laws have declared good goals, but unfortunately, I don't think those goals can be achieved in the way these laws are proposed. What is being passed through the Law on Dual Education and through the Preschool Education Act, it is the same as last time. Last time you said -- we need to discuss an emergency procedure to protect the interest of the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, the sooner some people lose their jobs, the less the cost of their education budget. Now you say – through dual education we will transfer some of the cost of education to the economy. Through preschool, you say, we'll transfer some of the costs to the citizens. So the cost of kindergartens will be higher, this is made possible by this law, for citizens, and less will be given by the state for preschool education. It is quite the opposite of what the Social Democratic Party believes should be provided in this country. We feel that more money is needed for education. It is impossible to achieve the goals you are declaring if the state does not provide money for it. We can't get a quality education system if we don't want to pay for it, and there's money in the budget and that's the money of Serbian citizens. We believe that this money should be invested in education, not in the setting-up of broken-down moments. So 180m euros will be for hot-killing equipment. Those 180m euros if they invested in free textbooks, everyone would have free textbooks for the next ten years, you could also build kindergartens, you could also build schools. So, you say - it is mandatory to prepare for preschool education. In five years, the Serbian Progressive Party authorities failed to build any schools in Belgrade. In the previous term, nine schools and 15 gyms were built in four years. Within five years, the Serbian Progressive Party authorities have failed to perform any new kindergartens. You've completed eight kindergartens whose projects were designed earlier. During the previous government until the SNS came to power, 45 kindergartens were built. It is an investment in education and this investment must exist in order to achieve the objectives. They were free textbooks in Belgrade. Why did you cancel your free textbooks? Why don't children in primary school besides the socially endangered have free textbooks?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23161	Ambassador, I'm asking you about the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23162	Yeah, about the bill. I've suggested free textbooks at school that you'll see that you've read then you'd know.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23163	Yeah, but when they're amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23164	So, in principle, I think they should be free textbooks, as I consider in particular. Free textbooks are important for 95% of Serbian citizens who have no money to pay for those textbooks on September 1st. Ministers, you are served in a buffet by waiters, and at a restaurant with a salary of 26,000 dinars. With 26,000 dinars, they can't pay 8,000 dinars on September 1st, which isn't enough, because they also have to pay for pillows, and ranches, and notebooks, and pencils, and toilet paper, and lynx paper. All of this needs to be paid in elementary school. All of this needs to be paid in high school. What are people gonna pay you for? In which kindergarten children go to mandatory preschool prep when that kindergarten is not in their territory. That's why kindergartens should be built. So you stopped it. Our concept is to invest in education. You are among these laws what is new and specific, this is the proposal for a law on dual education and the SNS believes that when dual education is introduced to reduce unemployment in this country. We believe that dual education should not be introduced into the education system, that it is completely wrong. A reform of secondary education is needed and it is not controversial, and we agree with that when you write in an explanation that our secondary and vocational education does not meet the needs of the economy. That's true, and it needs to be changed, and that's true. The curriculas that you mention are obsolete and you say, schools can't follow technological developments, so they can't quickly change the curricula. These curriculas, i.e. teaching, plans and programmes, are now passed by the minister by law. So, you're the one who brings in plans and programmes, so bring in plans and programs that are in line with the needs of the economy. Do it in collaboration with the Chamber of Commerce, do it in co-operation with local self-government, do an analysis in which the municipality, what profile of vocational education is needed and let them be programs, and I agree with that. But we disagree that we are passing a law that actually creates, in the end, as a consequence has cheap labour in Serbia and I will explain to you why I mean it and which actually creates apprentices, assistants and employers. The dual education as you say is innovative. It's not innovative, so it's something that started in Switzerland, Germany and Austria in the 1960s. The circumstances in Germany were completely different in the 1960s than in Serbia today. It was a big expansion of the economy. The economy has been developing. The economy needed labour. This workforce needed by employers and large capital is in fact a cheap workforce. On the other hand, at the time, there was a huge flow of immigrants in Germany. The Germans directed the Australians and the Swiss and the migrants to do cheap and low-paid jobs that they didn't want to do. On the one hand, and there they helped their economy and they met two requirements. Requests for labour, or cheap labour, and resolving the issue of migrants. We have no migrants in Serbia, no inflows of immigrants, no expansion of economic growth. That's just not true. We in Serbia today have only Serbian citizens and we do not want Serbian citizens to be referred as cheap labour. He who enters a dual education programme, where his education ends, will not acquire the basic knowledge to a sufficient extent that he can later do better paid work. The economy, in a catastrophic state. What an economic expansion if the inflow of foreign investment was 3.5 billion in 2011 and in 2014 a billion and a half in 2015 billion and eight hundred. There are twice as many foreign investments in the economy today as it was in 2011. Therefore, our economy is falling. What is the structure of this economy? For the past ten years, factories in Serbia have been opened that can be moved to a different location tomorrow. As the investor receives a larger subsidy in another country or is offered a cheaper workforce, he will go to another country. Then what happens to a student who's had a dual education? He has been educated for three years to stick cables in "Juri" and learn only to stick cables in "Juri". When "Jura" left Raca then Mubadal came to Rač and opened the chip factory, which you promised in 2013 and did not show up. How's he gonna stick his cables on that student when he ain't got no chip cables? Chips don't have cables. So it's not the point that we create a cheap workforce for a man who knows he only does one job but needs wider knowledge in that sector so that he can get a job in both the second and third factories. Where's he gonna work when that factory goes? Who's gonna hire him? No one will. So, in your concept of dual education there is no ban on employers as long as children can take for cheap work, there is not how long it can last and there is nothing that is most important, the obligation that someone who has passed through that dual education be employed in a permanent working relationship. What does that mean? This means that you, with this law, are solely satisfying the interest of large-scale capital. Not the citizens' interest, not the state's interest, but the interest of large capital. How? By taking children who go to high school, the employer will work for the labour price which is 30% lower than the minimum labour price, which is 30% less than the minimum labour price as prescribed by law. Thirty percent less than the minimum labour price. That means more than 50% less for some jobs to be paid over the minimum labour price. That's how kids will work when they finish that job. The employer fires them and takes new children who again work 30% cheaper than the minimum labour price. So there's no obligation to keep them. Such an employer, so of course he'll take someone for 30% less money than he'll hire someone who's unemployed now. You're in the argument that there are, look, five years of SNS in power, that now there are 65% of young people who have completed vocational schools and have no job, that 150,000 young people who are between 15 and 24 don't have a job. Well, what have you been doing for five years? Why didn't these people get a job? Well, it's not because the economy isn't working well and because that's the situation in Serbia. There is no need to introduce dual education in such a situation. It can produce results in some rich country that needs a large number of workers. We don't have that need, unfortunately. Only unfair competition will be created. Students will be unfair to those who finished school recently or five years ago and who can't find a job and they'll never be able to find a job. The SDS therefore believes that a reform of secondary education should be implemented, but all of it. That it is necessary for educational profiles to meet the needs of the economy, but that there is no need to invest money in dual education. You say at some point, the economy, that one, and I call it the employer, will practically create some curricula and it will be responsible for conducting education. Watch out, there will be no school responsible for conducting his education through work but an employer, and he will be educated by instructors trained in 40 hours by the Chamber of Commerce to convey knowledge. So, pedagogical knowledge needs to be acquired by a factory worker and, with that teaching knowledge that he acquires in 40 hours, conveys knowledge to his students. This is not possible, because if it were possible then they would not prescribe the Law on basic education systems that professors of professional courses must have completed college and have master studies. Another negative consequence – the Double Education Act. If 80% of the time they would otherwise spend education in a high school professional class. If 80% of the time they spend at the factory, or at the employer at work, it means that professors from professional classes will become technological surpluses, because they will be reduced by a fund of lessons and have no one to teach, because children are elsewhere. That means you're going to cut budget costs, I agree, but in fact that means you're going to have to fire a large number of professors who teach professional courses. So you're firing professors for professional subjects, workers who have 47 hours of training transfer of knowledge the employer is responsible for this, not school. No, we believe that for the transfer of knowledge of education in Serbia should be a responsible school, i.e. the State, or Ministry, or you, because you yourself have prescribed that you bring all the programmes and curricula in this country. As far as I'm concerned... I can't talk about all the laws, because it's impossible to talk about six laws in 20 minutes, but I'm going to mention another topic about kindergartens. So we find it inappropriate that groups in kindergartens number 26 children and plus that you have an increase of 20% to what brings us to some normative of 31, and in practice in Belgrade we have a situation that there are 40 children in kindergarten in one group. There are only two children, possibly three educators, on those 40 children. It is not possible to work in such groups, and therefore we suggest that the state invests, that groups be reduced, that the number of educators increase, that the number of schools increase, that the number of kindergartens increase, that free textbooks be provided, that compulsory secondary education be introduced. When you see the fact that 15% of the children born don't come to high school, it's a catastrophic data, we need 100% of the kids in high school. So, Ministers, we're here to help you get a bigger budget and to lobby and talk about it in this Assembly, not to make the education budget smaller, and everything goes to parents and businesses, without children being trained to be anything more than a cheap workforce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23165	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23166	Let me just start with a reason of urgency, there's no urgency, and we've been doing seven laws in the package. They just didn't get in on time in the assembly, in that first booze, and now they're in. We would have lost some deadlines because of the use of the SBS and everything, so we did everything in time, even a month and a half ago they were in circulation. When you talk about preschool age, you may have noticed that we are adopting here a small loan convention that raises the number of kindergartens, i.e. capacity increases. In order for the coverage to happen on the other hand, to dissipate the existing and to respect the normative number of students in kindergarten. We have already done an optimal measure, at Belgrade level, and we are working on other places, to exploit the capacities of primary schools. There is very little room for me to inform you, in Serbia where elementary schools should be built and that is the reason for the white plague. So Pazar has extremely large departments of four students, although the school one was built recently. It may be Mirievo, but it can be solved in a different way and possibly a Novi Sad because of the great immigration. So there is no objective need for new buildings, even talking about extra space, which will be redistributed between other types of education and even high. That's what it's all about. The price of kindergartens will not change, so what we talked about last time is only one option opened by introducing a social map that category solves permanently. And know who's right. I don't think it's 95 percent, it's yours or mine now, but you know what I'm talking about. I will support anyone who supports a larger education budget. We had this morning that a company supported us for financial literacy, and we introduced it as a new category. So, a number of new categories are introduced into Serbian education of very high quality, but when we talk only about dual, it's just a small segment of it. Even though it's not being introduced for two years, it means that something exists, it's being arranged. It started in 2013. Here the goal was to protect the student, and if you have read a little better, you can see that there is a competent educational inspection and school. When it comes to programs, of course professional profiles must be given by employers. If it's some new technology, you can't work with a practical teacher who came from a factory 30 years ago. It's a different story now, whether that man can go on severance, requalification, etc. You see, we took care of them, too. We of all European countries, many have, not only Germany, Austria, Swiss dual education models, Slovenia has twice changed the law. So, at a summit in Berlin, then at a summit in Trieste, the main topic was what we're talking about right now. That's what they do from China to Portugal, including America, in several federal states already coming to training in Switzerland. So this is an attempt to make the field of work and the relationship of work and practice and learning neat. It's just a series of contracts that are supposed to exist here, that come between family, employers and all that, that have to protect students. I wouldn't agree, and I wouldn't recommend any parent, and I sure as hell won't make a plan and a program for children to clean up nuclear waste. As much as that's your phrase, we didn't even allow dual profiles for the military, where you work with gunpowder, where there are dangerous places, heights, etc. Someone's gonna work, but they're not gonna work through these models for sure. About cables and such factories, you know very well that it's informal education. You can teach that in a month or two on a course. If you go to Uzice, Valjevo, if you go to other cities, where there has been dual education for four years, that entire generations have been standing and entered the company completely into the Caves, and now I'm talking about serious companies, because there aren't as many as you'd like, but there are. There are companies that have development centers. "pan start apps" are being opened, technology parks are being done, not that it is not thinking about this second part that needs to pull the story. The Battle of Knowledge with Fund B 92 has already entered hundreds of schools, robots. So, information has been introduced, believe me, perhaps one of the most qualitative in several European countries, we get daily commendation from developed countries from us, because very bravely, IT has entered with programming in the fifth base. So, there's a lot of models at high school right now. This is how the strategy is rounded up in one way as it is imagined, we raise and build from it a school from which to study, and then we have to arrange what is secondary and professional education, which was predominant. If business says, and we went out into the field to over 100 municipalities, and we talked about what you're suggesting with everyone who's actors in that story, we came up with real knowledge. If the entire American chamber, the Italian chamber and a series of other chambers next to ours, came into the story, so this is now designed and why you immediately give him the epithets that it's child torture and child exploitation, so who's up to it. I'm a teacher for 38 years in practice and I would never do that, I can say that here. When it comes to corriculum, the employer is someone who will only give suggestions, and the ZUOV law is still the main body. The ratio of general educational and professional subjects, and then when you get out of context 80 percent, that in the third year of the final year, in the maximum amount, which is usually up to 70 percent and when you put the ratio of general educational and professional and only in that PIC you have that condition. The relationship is the more real that says it. No one has any intention of giving up a perfectly good and solid relationship of general education and expertise. But you don't need to be exaggerating, if you in the profession of the winemaker and the winemaker, you need to do whatever it takes and don't need in life, then it's really a question of whether it's too much. Have we analyzed our plans and programs? You know when he was traded for economic school in 1997. You know, that a lot of kids who won't do accounting, they all have to learn that. It is not in good European world models, that everyone learns everything. We burden children in this way, not only with fat books and boring lectures, but with bad plans and programs. You're going to look at the opportunity of how it's going to happen in public these days and the stories of reforming high school and what it gets with election and other categories. Indeed, many of your observations do not exist, and the construction of kindergartens is just in expansion, and today we will adopt that category these days. I think I've answered everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23167	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23168	Dear citizens of Serbia, Bozidar Grujovic said at the time of the uprising Serbia and in 1805 that in the then most coherent part of the letter of freedom – a law that everyone will respect must be created by reason and justice. Minister, your bill is neither reasonable nor just. The proposal with which you came to the Assembly is primarily deeply immoral for the simple reason that after 150 years it introduces and establishes a child labor regime. Slavery was abolished long ago, as you know, and you and child labour and slavery through this law are introducing into Serbia. Investors receiving from Serbia 10,000 euros per job a minimum, up to 100,000 euros such as the "Meite" example in Obrenovac. Not only do they get money from citizens of Serbia, poor citizens, not only poor pensioners, but also in this way and you offer, I can say freely, free labour, those young people who will make this society in the next 10, 20 or 50, or God forbid, 100 years, if you don't want us to disappear sooner. The dual education here is not imagined, as you have just said, to strengthen the citizen, to encourage him, to breathe his confidence, but to humiliate him, to subdue him, and to obey both domestic and foreign tycoons who have been ruling Serbia for five years. What's dual education and what's the goal you've defined is that you don't make people into citizens, but slaves, cheap extensions of the machine, they're citizens of Serbia, and that's their future, especially young people you say you care about. They will be sentenced to life imprisonment, to life slavery, without any right to pardon. They won't be able, as you said, to get a job, they won't be able to continue their education, they won't be able to become citizens with their spines. All you said was a lie in your explanation of dual education. Did you finally tell us why and how, and how you think you will satisfy Serbia's future by allowing someone at 15 years of age, as you said, by your own law, to become a welder and it's independent. Little girl, I think you even mentioned a 14 or 15-year-old girl, aren't you really ashamed to talk like this?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23169	Ambassador, please be polite.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23170	Are you really not ashamed of yourself when in this way you demean the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and these young people and their parents and all those who are really interested in being in society, who will step up with the most modern societies in Europe and the world? A cheap extension of the machine can't be fate for any young man you came here today to save from unemployment. Young people don't have jobs because the growth of social product is 1.3% on an annual basis, because you only open jobs for those categories that know how to fold or fold cables that can stand for 10 hours in diapers on a moving track.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23171	Ambassador, we can't tell lies here at the pay phone. I understand the propaganda, the campaign and everything you want to do, but don't make any mistakes. (Marko Djurisic: Martinovic has nothing to say if they are false. What? He can't make it up. Anyone who has anything to say will answer. It can't. This is not how we're gonna work.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23172	The aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is a man who represents a cheap extension of the machine, unlike those of us who believe that each individual must be the master of his own destiny. You're preventing it from your bill of law, every young man today and every adult man in the future. Dual education has, simply, two goals. One to enable employers to market cheap labour, not to say slaves, over-the-counter contracts and people who absolutely as workers will not have any rights. In doing so, you did not prohibit children from doing the most dangerous jobs in this bill. The second goal of dual education is for children of the lowest age to get used to it, in the harsh market, to those conditions that tycoons provide for them, which is 70% of the minimum earnings in Serbia and you say that in this way you tried to solve the job issue, and that is very funny to say for the simple reason that, first of all, it is not your task as minister of education, and secondly, for a better working environment where a decent person, a decent citizen, will be required first of all, the rule of law, respect, reforms that you are not able to implement. Lifelong learning is today a practice, i.e. the goal of every developed society, modern society and modern state, and you here through a three-year school, where more than 70% is left on something called a professional subject and being taught in a factory on a machine. You think that this is how you're going to educate some young man and prepare him for life in the 21st century, and then your prime minister is talking about digitization. Do you know them all, when you call for dual education in Germany, Switzerland, Austria, which is why dual education is even introduced in these countries? Did you know that migrants who could never get together with society who could never get along in that society didn't even speak their language, had nothing to do, and then someone came up with the idea to hire them, teach them anything just to become part of a society, just to get them involved in their society? You're doing this with Serbia today, not with migrants, not with children of migrants, you're doing it with children of Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens, who simply will never have the opportunity to continue their education and who will remain at the level of the 17th century in the 21st century. You create and deepen social differences and the social gap in Serbia by creating the poorest ones that will stand on the track, and of course create the richest ones, who have been ruling this country for five years, have the interest in having this law implemented into action. You, in this way, introducing dual education, aim to increase disparity in Serbia's regional development. There will be no more even development. What can a child expect from a man who works in black grass? They will never be able, since there is no money for textbooks, and they are no longer free, since there is no chance by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia on equal chances of education free of charge for all basics, you simply have no reason to claim that Serbia will become a more developed country when you introduce dual education, but we will return to who knows what century behind us. And the question is, will we ever be able to recover from this shameful reform? What is also very bad is Serbia's Chamber of Commerce, which apparently has more interest in education and the future, such as. SANU, who has not yet officially called on this issue. I'm interested in their opinion, not what the American Chamber of Commerce thinks, the Italian Chamber of Commerce. Of course, they aim to have cheap labour in Serbia. Of course, they aim to make some young people at the age of 15 or 16, whose parents will sign a job contract, to aim at exploiting their energy and their strength, to lay off workers who have worked in those jobs until then, and that after two or three years you will replace them with a new generation of young people, these jobs and fully create slave power in Serbia. The slave society is not a 21st century society. The Society of Citizens is a society of the 21st century. You're doing everything to achieve some of your goals, for some tycoon that apparently suggest, as you yourself said, through various chambers of commerce, this law. This is bad for Serbia, this is bad for the parents of children in Serbia, and I think it is defeating to talk about any reforms that will do any good to our citizens. I think this is a huge immersion and that Serbia didn't allow this to happen to itself in the '90s, and we're still trying to pull ourselves out of those results that this government did in the '90s. You're bringing us back to some centuries behind. A cheap extension of a machine can't be a target for a man. And that's why you should be ashamed of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23173	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23174	I think you should be a little bit more disciplined, because when you tell someone to lie and be ashamed, I can answer you another way. And that's what you just told me, and more than once, dear MP. I only remember three sentences here - slaves, cheap, extension of the machine, 70% minimum profit. Let's get this math done. If someone's working two days on practice, six hours, it's 12 hours, and full-time is 40 hours, so is some employer crazy enough to pay 70% just for 12 hours? Let's see if it's a bad story. Repeating one 80 times that sentence, we come up with the whole story as a purely political variant. I apologize to all parents, students who attend high school, professionally, dually, to all workers in the state of Serbia, who have more than half. They seem to have made a mistake. They're all supposed to be science doctors or starting school now. Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23175	There's no replica. (Balsa Bozovic: Why not? ) You have executed the minister, he has answered you very pedagogical and parentingly, therefore, there is no replica. He didn't insult you. The next speaker is Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23176	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, if I may say my personal opinion, which has nothing to do with the party's position, it is that I would like my children to be in a dual education system tomorrow, to acquire skills, to gain knowledge, to be more prepared to start their own business, to develop a entrepreneurial spirit and to be successful on the market. What we heard earlier was, in my opinion, a return to the 70's, in the 80's, when heresy was saying that someone had an entrepreneurial spirit, that they wanted to open up some craft shop, some car wash, some drive, some factory, that I wasn't talking about it, and that because of that attitude, because of that kind of policy, because of the kind of design economy that existed at the time, and that we ended up falling apart in many sectors where we were and how competitive we were. This is precisely because no private initiative was encouraged, which was not a stimulating entrepreneurial spirit, which we had an egalitarianism, a collectiveism related to the socialist planning economy and, of course, we couldn't be and become competitive either in relation to the region without speaking globally. As far as labour and social rights are concerned, as regards mentioning some slave labor, I must say that the Republic of Serbia has adopted those most important, most important conventions of the International Labour Organisation, Convention 98, Convention 87, which speak precisely about the respect of our country and our institutions, what is called worthy work in the modern world. So our working legislation is extremely high-quality, in line with the European Social Charter and with the highest standards. I believe that when it comes to negotiating with the EU, when it comes to Chapter 19, and how quickly we close this chapter, as our labour legislation is very good, very good. What is very important for the Social Democratic Party of Serbia -- it preserves workers' rights. But while we are a party to the social democratic province, we do not run away from it, even more, we want there to be much more businessmen in Serbia, we want the entrepreneurial spirit to develop in Serbia, and we want our young people to stay in Serbia, but not to be imperative for them to be employed in a state-owned institution, to work in a ministry, but to be an imperative for them to start their business, to be self-employed, to work in family businesses or to work in serious domestic and foreign corporations. So, I will repeat the strategic goal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which was established in 2014, which has continuity and today, which is new employment, the creation of new jobs and the Law on Dual Education, and I hope that its implementation is precisely aimed at training young people for the labour market and young people to train and prepare for an increasing number of both domestic and foreign investments that we have daily in the Republic of Serbia. I will also remind my fellow MPs, as well as the public in the Republic of Serbia, that we had over two billion euros of foreign direct investment during 2016. The level of investment is higher than the level of investment in all countries neighbouring the Republic of Serbia. Finally, what's most important is investors who are the best in their defences and in their branches. It's the American NCR, it's the Microsoft, it's the components of the automotive industry that are the most quality on the world level, there's Turkish companies that almost come here on the weekly level and invest in both part of the construction of components when it comes to the automotive industry and in the textile industry and in many other branches of our economy. Of course, we have a lot of investment from EU countries, Germany, Italy, France, but we are excellent relations and attract investments from the People's Republic of China, the United Arab Emirates and all other countries and I can say that Serbia has become a kind of economic hasn, a strong regional economic leader who is increasingly attractive to the best and most qualitative companies in the world. What is very important is that we prepare what is the greatest wealth, what is the greatest resource of our country, and these are our young people. We need to prepare them for work, tell them and show them that it is not a shame to start our own business, that it is not a shame to work 10 or 12 hours for our own company, for employees who work in the company, and that this is the only way and the only approach that can make Serbia competitive on this regional but also on the European market, and that is what will prepare Serbia to be a full member of the EU, not only the declarative opening and closing of chapters, not only to say that we are pro-Europeanly oriented, but to accept what is the greatest value of modern Europe, Nordic countries, Germany and other countries that have developed industry, which create an additional value and create a good environment and conditions for the quality, good and dignified life of their people. We are not against work, even more, we are for work, for new businesses, for domestics, for foreign businesses, for all those who are able to employ people in this Serbia. That's what we're for. We're not going to have social demagogue for one single reason, because only new entrepreneurs, just new private initiatives to surprise those who will pay taxes to this country and from there the state will be able to take care of those who are socially at risk. So then we're going to have the possibility of a flat division of cakes, of even and just redistribution. Everything that involves a different attitude and the idea that our investments are going to fall from the sky and that if we don't create additional value, if we don't export, that we're going to be able to progress, is one complete farce and social demagogy. We must be responsible for our citizens and our people, but what will be and what is the job of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of this Parliament as the highest legislative body is to create a good environment for attraction, to create good conditions for our young people to be able to work in good and well-reputed companies, both domestic and foreign, but also to encourage them to start their jobs and not to start their jobs if they do not have enough entrepreneurial spirit and if they have not seen that entrepreneurship, that business development, that private initiative is not worth it and that people's employment is not paid in the Republic of Serbia and that it is criticised. What was mentioned earlier, and I find it very interesting, is this fee for young people who will perform, therefore, in practice in enterprises, of 70% minimum earnings. Well, is anything better than 70% than 25,000 dinars? Is anything better? Is it better that we don't have anything, that we don't have a legal practice in any way, that 95% of all high school kids and college students don't have a chance, have no opportunity to acquire skills, get some basic knowledge to be prepared for the labour market? Well, is it possible to compare anything with some compensation that's about to motivate? It does not serve those young people to live on it and to provide them with its existence. This fee serves to make these young people feel that for their part of the work, the effort to get up in the morning, go to the company, get paid and realize that if they get the best skills possible, that they can earn three, four, five or ten times as much and encourage them to learn for life and to encourage them to sign up tomorrow, if they want, because our country has ensured the passing of a high vocational school, to be masters of vocational studies, to be good craftsmen, to have good jobs, but also to be able to improve their theoretical knowledge, to be able to enroll, to be able to complete the highest levels of studies. If it's bad and if it's no better than that, I really don't know and I can't understand such attitudes and blanco criticism of this legal solution in that domain and in that sense. What is very interesting is the fact that currently between 3% and 5% of young people decide to start their business. When this law comes to life, and I hope it will come to life as soon as possible, because it needs Serbia, because it needs our citizens, because it needs our young people, the practice in Austria, the practice in Switzerland, the practice in Germany, shows that this percentage will be able to rise to between 15% and 20%. What does that mean? This means 10.15 times more micro, small, medium-sized enterprises that will open in the next period and where young people will be employed, 10 times more family businesses and 10 times more opportunities for young people to stay in our country. Interesting, but the devastating fact that we need to talk about is that 150,000 young people are neither educated nor working. This is over, when calculated, about 2% of the population of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia has no opportunity and Serbia has no right to allow that, that 150,000 people are neither working nor finishing a school. When we add to this the fact that about a few hundred thousand people in Serbia do not have a secondary school, that about 130,000 people even have a primary school, a large strategic issue is being raised – can Serbia make a dynamic progress if it has this condition? This law on dual education will now serve to improve the situation. Serbia has shown that we are not ashamed to learn from the best. Dual education in Austria, dual education in Germany, Switzerland, so-called “Fah of Shule”, meaning and defining the implementation of practical teaching and the departure of young people from 14, 15, 16 years of age into factories to learn work, to acquire skills and to acquire practice. That's why Germany is one of the strongest and most industrialized countries. That is why Switzerland, although small and small by population, is one of the richest countries in the world. Austria, which has only a few more inhabitants than the Republic of Serbia, has been significantly developed when it comes to the world level, not to talk about the European level, which is very close to us. We don't have to be and I think it's hard to reach Austria's level, but we can try to implement good practice here and create good conditions for our young people. Now, that's social democracy. It's social responsibility. It's a responsibility to young people, and not -- it's going to fall money from the sky, investors are not good, it's not a good law on dual education, it's not a 70 percent fee, it's nothing, it's a zero, it's best not to do anything. It was a principle that worked and that led us to 74% of the public debt, up to 8% of the fiscal deficit, and in 2012 we wondered in September whether we would be able to pay salaries for Resavica and whether we would be able to meet our obligations at all when it comes to the expenditures of the Republic of Serbia's budget. I have to point out that it's a good thing this bill was just passed and we're discussing it through the social partnership, which is very important to us, that the representatives of high schools were involved, which was the state involved. I know that many of your associates have worked too hard on this and that this has been going on for several years. The Chamber of Commerce is important to us. A social partner is important, because I think for the first time we have the opportunity to really hear that voice of the economy and the economy. After all, what is most important is that this law, an initiative to pass this law, next to you, Minister, which you have very quickly and dynamically led to the finalisation and discussion and debate in parliament, is that this is the voice of the economy, that it was the need of the economy. Finally, this country listens to what the economy has to say, because we all live on them and we live on them and we need to encourage even more of these private initiatives. I think that the implementation of this law and the quick resuscitation of this law will help make our country richer, that our young people stay here in our country and thank you and the Chamber of Commerce and the Ministry, but of course, and valuable teachers from high schools in this effort, which we have come very quickly to this final proposal that has a strategic interest in our country and our citizens, especially for our young population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23177	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23178	Thank you very much. I fully agree with the assessment of the situation in education and in the economy which has been outlined in the light of the proposal for this law. I completely agree that it's a very bad state of employment. Different exhibitions with statistics, with new methods, with polls on whether someone is employed, with someone taking off the list of unemployed if they worked a couple of hours a week, they can lead statistically to the results that we have today reportedly several tens of thousands less employees than five, six years ago. The reality, when you look around, is that it's obvious that it's not true, like the fairy tale that, say, before October 5, there were 300,000 employees, but in 2001, which is the same lie. There may have been 300,000 more people on some record, but 350,000 people were, what was called, a technological surplus. It means people who are officially employed, and don't go to work and receive no pay. Therefore, the employment situation is catastrophic, and there is no doubt and I agree with the proposal's assessment. The secondary education system is in poor shape, that's also true, and here I agree with the proposal's assessment. There's a lot of what's extra in what kids learn, excess because it's overcome historically, technologically, whatever, methodologically. You have a lot of things that children can do better and, unfortunately, they can get to know each other better on the Internet than at school. There's also a lack of adequate personnel, learning, funds, and I totally agree. It is also true that the poor structure of new employees has been in recent years. I think we'll easily agree to that so-called. The employment boom and the new investment, which is not real, consists mostly of business that is on the level, as the masters say, of cremation of wire. That's the yura, let's say, if I remember correctly. It's a technology where you have a board or a splinter where some brakes are nailed and then the wires are diverged, and they're finally clumping. It's hardly a job we can be satisfied with. Of course, to people who have nothing, it's give, what you give, and it's completely understandable, and there's no doubt about it. In every crisis, people have managed in some way. Serbs, Serbian citizens and all other Serbian citizens have managed even in the 1990s, and we have survived this more or less with great consequences, but we have come out of it, as well as the bombing and all the nonsense before that. The question is whether dual education is the solution to these problems. I don't think so. First, let's be clear, this is not an idea of the Ministry of Education, but it occurred to Alexander Vukic a while ago, he said it was a phenomenal thing, he heard it, he saw it somewhere, whether in Switzerland, whether in France, when he was working in that store for I don't know what it was, locksmithy, whether, somewhere, someone told him, and it became a national task. I know a lot of people from the Ministry of Education who, of course, won't say that, I don't mean the minister, publicly, but who, of course, say -- look what they make us do. I understand these people too, they have to do what they're ordered to do, it's not the first time. Real law of dual education is what we had 30, 40 years ago. They were craft schools, so they were learning, I don't know, a little Marxism, a little stuff like that, and then after noon or tomorrow, one day they went to some factory for some work, some study, and there people got basic practical knowledge about what they should be doing as KV workers tomorrow, and then they had VKV, as I recall, and it was all rainy you thing, it was all seen a long time ago. Now don't let us sell some of the things we've seen before as some big newspaper. Okay, I don't mind it, and some good experience from the past is re-enacted, exploited, which the Serbs say "addated", but no, this won't help anything, because not only do they run away and leave highly educated young people from Serbia, we have, not just in the last five years, in the last 20 years, outflows and crafts. It's very modern to talk about welders, that someone's always looking for welders, and they're gone. I'd like to know that statistics, but realistically, how many needs there are on the labour market throughout Serbia for welders. I wasn't lazy, so I got a little interested - 28. So 28, the need for welders right now is 28. We're making a national problem out of it. Now, if we had 10,000 welders, the new government could hire them. It is not true, and they are around wherever you want them to go and many of them will come back only if they get a salary here that is at least half the salary they now have for some Slovakia, some Slovenia, some countries that are not at the top of technology or economics in the EU, but they have to go there because they have nothing. Therefore, I agree with the assessment of the situation. Obviously, this is an idea, the impression of a man you've given the right to decide on behalf of all of you, and that's your personal right, but it doesn't give anyone the right to decide on others, about most Serbian citizens. Therefore, I have another argument for the poor state of those 10,000 euros per employee to encourage employment, and that is for any employment, let's say, and for those jobs that are at the level of the craftsman, KV workers. When you look at the amount of salary they receive and that subsidy of 10,000 per employee, it's two and a half a year's salary, gross, two and a half a year's gross salary. During that time, that employer can teach someone who has never seen a machine, that he has no idea about that technology, so in six months he'll learn. Here is obviously the goal of creating two segments in the Serb population, which is a cheap workforce, and it is an official programme policy and a self-proclaimed president of this country and the government who runs this country and the party that supports it. We advertise on CNN or any other big world television and in every speech by every politician, who brings in allegedly big investors, the main thing is that we have the cheapest workforce in the region, and that means probably everywhere, except in Europe, because everywhere else, maybe in the United States, it can't be applied. The other thing is, if anyone offers better conditions, we'll go another 5% lower. Who goes 5% lower? To whose harm? This boasts the government's price at the expense of citizens, which needs to be reduced by another thousand, 26 thousand dinars, as much as in major new employment projects, to reduce this by another thousand, two. That's not the answer. I can allow myself a moment of great naivety, so I think the ruling parties are doing this for some good purposes, but then I tell you that's not the solution, even if your intentions are good, then you're wrong. What's necessary? It is necessary to reform secondary education. It is a solution, and of course we must always think in this reform in a way that we cannot force parents, their children or children to write down only what someone estimates to them, and someone else, say, the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia. (Alexander Markovic: What did you sign up for? I'll talk about her a little later, and a fellow who pushes her to get closer to hearing it. So that condition is not good, and it needs to change and there's no doubt at all, but I'll talk about it a little later. To make you happy, we have submitted amendments to every member of the Dual Education Act and, of course, these amendments are thus defined to read – is deleted. That's what you most like to hear and that's, of course, a way to point out the lack of law. If the law isn't good, then, of course, the only way to react is to write it down -- delete it. This is what the New Party patented a few years ago, and I see that all MP groups, and even the ruling ones, used it when they needed it, so don't frown when you hear it, is deleted. What's the explanation? I'll tell you one of the reasons why you need to delete the whole law. It says - this amendment proposes that a member be deleted because of the content and way of achieving dual education, mutual rights of students, parents, or other legal representatives of students, schools and employers, material and financial security of students, as well as other issues in this Member of the law are not provided for by any strategic or development document in the field of education in our country. Moreover, the education development strategy in Serbia by 2020, which was adopted as a roof resolution document, does not at all recognise dual education as a special programme, nor does the goal of treating it as an issue in a special regime through individual laws, i.e. this text of the bill. Also, forcing such a narrow professional dual education is contrary to the already mentioned development strategy by 2000, which promotes lifelong learning, which enables students to adapt quickly to the labour market, unlike dual education, which training students for the lowest level of qualifications. If it's not clear to anyone, I can repeat this text one more time, but I think most of them figured it out. So, this craft education, which you represent today, very easily, by developing technology, we can come to being obsolete. Then what about these people who are closely trained for a small segment of work on the current track? You still have that in Charlie Chaplin, Modern Times, when his job was to screw up a bolt. What if the technology changes, what if that product goes out and we get some new one, what happens every day? Then what happens to the lowly educated people? They, rightly, spoke about it earlier, remain deprived of further education. So let's do something to change that and come up with some better solutions. A better solution is the reform of high school, not by transferring to these modern craft schools, under quotes of modern education, but by a deeper reform of secondary education. The first step towards this reform, Mr. Minister, is the obligation of secondary education. In Serbia, in Europe, in most of the civilized world, you can't do anything if you only have a primary school. It is necessary as a start to education, I think that education should be more on the family, but let there be education, but what you get as an opportunity to learn further what you can do or continue your education with, it can be learned in high school. That's why high school needs to become mandatory. Of course, not like this, it should become mandatory today, and it should be in the strict proposal for a law on secondary education, and that is also one of the amendments that we have given, that secondary education becomes mandatory, and that in the short run, using good experience, primarily countries that have passed the transition, not Switzerland, Great Britain and Canada, but Slovakia, Poland, Slovenia, to see what they have done in that work and thus to enter into the reform of secondary education. I'm sure with then many colleagues who are now earning will be happy, because some future generations will be able to learn what they could never learn. Generally, the problem of unemployment, the problem of low levels of social development, economic development, economic development is solved by education, but the fundamental step towards attracting investors, seriously, is to be a safe state, that is to be the state in which the investee, whether he is a local citizen, whether he is a stranger, will have confidence that he has security for his future work. Will our labour force be cheaper than the countries of Central and Northern Europe? Well, of course they will, and even in Spain, wages are lower than in Germany, and they will always stay that way, and in Portugal they are lower than in Austria. We will have always lower wages than Germany, Austria, Italy, France, there is no doubt, the average salary, but the goal is not to make the average salary 200 euros or 250, as is now, if you are seriously counting on the average salary, not to play with statistics, but to make it 500 euros, and to keep your unemployment around 10%, but still not statistically, but realistically. Real unemployment of 10% in Serbia is below a million, below 800,000 unemployed. You can say that 13% is a million and 700, but it's also in dual education to learn, you'll know it's a lie. There's no need to lie to each other, see when we get out, see what happens. I wasn't happy with what happened five years ago or with that previous government. And there have been many bad solutions, there's no doubt about it, but what you've been doing in the last five years, it's hard to find a good solution, the moss are bad. I don't think it's in anyone's interest and it's not the goal of me being happy because it's worse now than it was before. No, on the contrary, I've lived in this country for almost 57 years, I've been a private in this country for 30 years, I've been listening to arlauking in meadows in this country for 52, 53 years, so this is nothing new. I'll never be happy when Serbia gets worse than it was yesterday. You guys can cheer, you can put in the faceless people to earn, get what you should be ashamed of when you ladies sit next to him to listen to him, but I'm used to it. There's always a weed, there's always caravans passing by, and there's some running along, but I'm telling you for the best. Tomorrow, when you are no longer in power, you will bear the mark of someone who, at some point, was somehow important to this country, to its future, to life at that moment, but also to the fate of many future generations. Think about it when you vote on this law, about some other laws, about the law that I proposed yesterday, that people who are on sick leave for the care of sick children be banned, so you voted against it. It's all about getting one big sector of cheap labour to deal with, under quotes, unemployment and a large sector of quasi universities and colleges, where they're going to get fake diplomas from which people who don't deserve it will come to the state administration and drive out people who have come to these places with the best intentions, with good education and doing a serious job for their country, and now they don't have anywhere to sit because of the flood, the flood, the outflow of people who are employed in the state administration just because they've been party members for the last five, six years. And it's a process that started earlier, but you've led him to perfection, and that perfection is not good, not every perfection is good. So I urge you, Mr. Minister, to respect my arguments, to propose to the Government that this law be withdrawn and that the problems you have precisely defined in the opening presentation be solved in a way that brings a realistic solution, and that is not the resuscitation of the late system of craft schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23179	The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23180	Let's clear up one constant dilemma here today. This isn't about making cheap labour, it's about professional labour. If you look at schools that have dual models, you'll see that they work not as Charlie Chaplin for the power to chase, to screw two screws, but to work on CNC machines and design and create 3D printers. Here, some of our kids who were in Velenj were doing it here in Serbia. If you're a good employer and I'm an employer, I have 180 employees, mine are trained with the best possible seminars all over Europe, they still visit the same and 16 have doctored them. I, for my good work, need extremely good workers and invest as much as I can in them. We'll be there... (People MP Zoran Zivkovic throws out of place. I didn't get into the word, Zoran. I didn't get to that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23181	Please don't throw it away. Wait for the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23182	We are talking about a total reform of secondary education. That's the third thesis. In this overall reform, the current state of traffic is that 7% -8% dual, 25% gymnasium and 67% so-called. medium professional. For your information, so high school has been reformed, will now come out almost in public, will be published, a complete model of our national high school with all its advantages. I say again, ask all the employees, in all the high schools in all the cities of Serbia, they all participated, they said they were too pleased. You will see that it will be a very model school and quality. She'll be able to bring in what the 20-story strategy says, which is to make 40% high school. She's supposed to prepare for her studies. And medium professional. Our high vocational schools have run away from the economy, that's the problem, and we have to tie that up. They're in school for the Bureau of Work. For your information and other MPs, we have recently revealed the need for the state to do so seriously. Decades of Reputable Colleges, Mr Simic, Political Sciences, and Sima Avramović, Faculty of Law, Minister Djordjevic and I signed a protocol where, per 100 of the best students from the two colleges completed, they got the job of student practice in the state administration. So, the best. It's a signal that in three months, practice will get a permanent job. So the state needs quality, the highest quality, and that's a signal. The strategy, mentioned, is known by Zarko, in his time and was done and adopted, has one part when he says – planned measures. Maybe someone didn't read that part. The planned measures are the harmonisation and adoption of legal and sublegal regulations in the area that we are now talking about, the arrangement of the system of secondary vocational schools. For information from all MPs and citizens, and the third segment, secondary vocational education that is most comprehensive, is being reformed. So we will have for 2018 the beginning of the first basic, fifth elementary, first high school, first secondary professional and first dual. It's dual, we have to legally frame it, it's not simple, it's cheap and it's not as political as it's been trying to say all day. I expected worse and worse. This is even a little bit of what I expected to hear today, but let me tell you the truth. A team of people who have accepted to work have left their cathedrals at their colleges, working in the air. For the first six months, they visited more than half of Serbia on their own initiative. And we went out in the field, and then when we went out into the field, the Chamber came after us, and we saw that it was a completely different picture of what's being said in the salons and what the economy is looking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23183	Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I'd like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 6:00 p.m. (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. There is no basis for replication. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23184	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, respected ministers and other members of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the SPS regarding the set of laws currently on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but above all on the law on dual education. I think this law is the most important law under all these laws that we will discuss today, not only for the educational system of the Republic of Serbia, but for the entire system of secondary vocational education, and I must say from my point of view and from the point of view of the future development of the Republic of Serbia and local self-government. I want, first of all, to say that the SPS will, of course, vote for this law because we think it's a very high-quality legislative proposal, by the size of the members that contains, a small law, but by the influence it will have in the education system, a very important law. I think it's a good thing the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will adopt this law for a number of reasons. First of all, it's the students. Somehow, in this debate that has been conducted today, we have lost sight of who is meant for this law, which is the students and their knowledge, abilities, skills, their competence, what it is that they will learn in the framework of secondary education systems and what it can mean for them for their future. I think, unfortunately, many colleagues have not read the law, nor have seen the solutions that you have presented, so that we can discuss whether all solutions are good or not, because the very idea of dual education is something that absolutely should not have, as an idea, an opponent in today's debate, because essentially this law is focused on improving the education system and in that part of secondary vocational education. Another thing that is very important, it seems to me that this law will respond to the needs of the Republic of Serbia's economy, whatever they mean by "the economy of the Republic of Serbia" and finally close one story that has existed years ago, which is that the educational system of the Republic of Serbia cannot respond to the needs of employers, i.e. the owner or director of enterprises, because there are no educational profiles at that level of education that can be part of the employment system, later and work in these companies. And the third thing, an important, systematic one, is that objectively in the way provided for by this law, the application of dual education in certain local self-governments will contribute objectively to increasing employment, the importance of individual schools and the general development of the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the system, often years back, and even today, the Ministry of Education is being criticised that the systems are trom, that the educational profiles don't fit the needs of the market, that employers can't find an adequate frame, and forget how we got into that situation at all. In the 1990s, and especially what happened in 2000, they objectively destroyed. And this privatisation, which was of its character, has led to the closure of several hundred thousand jobs, but where luck has it that the closure of these jobs has led to the opening of new jobs, because, if you remember, those who participated in the adoption of the Law on Privatisation, in fact, to the adoption of the law, the economic boom in the Republic of Serbia and to the opening of new jobs. By closing these factories, we objectively denied the students of secondary vocational schools possible space for practical training and denied the possibility of co-operation of the economy and students. Now, this is how an improvement in the entire education system is being done, and I say, it answers this question of the need for economy. What is important is mentioned from the point of view of the system, as the student is at the heart of the law, the basic elements of this law are of course schools, employers, local self-government, but also one option of choice because it is possible to hear criticism that this law will, therefore, lead to an unequal position of the student who wants the secondary school, which will make a contract with the employer and the like. It would be good to talk about how something like that might happen, but it remains in the other plan, in relation to the essence of this law. I'd like to say that this law is not random in itself. It is an expression of the needs of the education system, of the need and of the economy and that, of course, it did not occur yesterday, the day before, but that it had its roots. I would like to remind those who have not read the reasoning of this law, to remind myself that in 2013, the elements of dual education were introduced into the education system of the RS, then through three educational profiles, locksmith, welder, mechanic of industrial plants and electricians. I want it to be known that the education system of the RS until then and afterwards has always created educational profiles that were for Serbia's purposes in co-operation with the economy, with local self-governments and has tried to find an answer to the question of what needs to be changed in the education system, in order to have its own purpose, when it comes to secondary vocational education. I'm glad you mentioned that the entire system of secondary education has its own meaning and logic and that it is harmonized with the education strategy and that on the one hand the number of general schools, high school, and on the other hand, changes are being made in the system of secondary vocational education. But in order to understand the scope and application of this law, I don't think it would be a bad idea to see who it refers to and what kind of miles the law is in. When I told you who he was referring to, it was about the students. At this very moment, it is in the light of this law, although in another law on secondary education and education, but it is seen that there are 155,492 students, or 61,66% in secondary schools, and in the departments of three-year-old educated profiles of 26.166 students, which is 10.38%. Thus, the system of secondary vocational education is 181,658 students or 72,03%. I mentioned this to simply show what number of high school students it is. Now let's see what the economic situation is like. According to the 2014 Bureau of Statistics, when it comes to enterprises operating at the level of the Republic of Serbia, they of course made a classification on micro, small, medium and large enterprises. What is important is that the medium-sized enterprises have 2,131, according to the statistics at the time, and large enterprises, with over 250 and more employees, have 494, making up a total of 2,635 companies. Of course, now more thanks to what the government did in the previous period, attracting foreign companies, opening new jobs. It's all good grounds for the application of this law, for one co-operation that needs to be established between schools and businesses. Otherwise, one more thing should be mentioned, that there are 150 municipalities in Serbia, that there are 23 cities and Belgrade with 17 municipalities, that is 189-190 local self-government, and that is the framework in which the law will be applied. That this is not a random law but a strategic definition of the government, says, I don't know if you remember, when Mr. Vukic as Prime Minister of 2016 represented the content of the programme here, he mentioned that dual education is one of the things that is needed, we are not the educational system of the Republic of Serbia, but also the need for children who attend secondary vocational education, and that Serbia began, in years before, to apply dual education, but that a legal proposal should be made and that this also helps improve the quality of education and quality of competence of students, but also reduce unemployment within a particular country, in this case the Republic of Serbia. From that, let me say, the government's 2016 intentions, here is now 2017, a year and a little later, we attend the application of this law. I don't know if you noticed, respected colleagues and colleagues, what the minister was saying yesterday, that's the number of companies that have shown interest so far. He mentioned in the reasoning of the law of 60 companies, 18 schools under a project implemented between Serbia's Chamber of Commerce and educational organisations from Switzerland, Germany and Austria. He also mentioned the number of students, but moreover, and that is one good thing that the ministry has done, which has made this training caravan, which has made contact with employers from the territory of the Republic of Serbia, has presented to everyone what the ministry intends to do and in this context who intends to be part of this concept. I say this very consciously - who shows intent, because it must be understood that the content of this law is such a character that an employer who needs educated profiles, of course wants to participate in the application of a dual system, of dual education. On the other hand, we have students, I'm sorry, there's a right to choose each of the children, whether they're going to enroll one of the ten schools when they're finishing their primary level of education and then it's defined for a school, or whether it's a high school or a high school, and therefore it's able to define whether they're going to be a student at a professional school. There's also a need category for local self-government. It's from the point of view of the development of the economy in every environment and in every local self-government. Considering all these elements, it is perfectly logical that this law has its own meaning, that it has its contents and that it is very, very necessary for the educational system of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about legal solutions specifically, I can't help but mention, in my humble court, that the law has very precisely established a number of elements of protection, if you will, the protection of students' rights, that the law very precisely determines what the student is doing at school, what he does in the employer, which is the extent of teaching in one place, which is the extent of teaching elsewhere, which are, I say, the rights he has, which are obligations, in which way he can be protected. I think it's a special value of this law, which has promoted co-operation with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. Unlike any previous legal solutions that existed in the educational system of the Republic of Serbia, where the Chamber of Commerce, as someone who represents the interests of the economic sector in the Republic of Serbia, is more verbally than real, this seems to me for the first time that the Chamber of Commerce is legally linked to the system of education and is getting very clear obligations on what it should do here. I think for the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, this is a major challenge. Of course, I hope that this will respond successfully, but this is the right way, because often in the meetings of businessmen within the Chamber of Commerce in the previous years, there has been an educational system being criticised, that the education system, as I would say, is being brought into a situation that cannot meet the needs of the economy, but there was no adequate mechanism for which the economy could be involved. Now we get that dimension, and I think it's a good thing that the law has established the involvement of the Chamber of Commerce in the dual education system and in the member, examples of work, 12. There is an obligation of the Chamber of Commerce to determine the fulfilment of the conditions for learning in the employer. So, very precise what the employer must do, what all the employer must possess, so that learning can be done with him. I think it is also very valuable to mention a dual education agreement and a work-based learning contract, I note this in learning through work, because the dual education agreement speaks of all the elements that are important to the education system. They heard yesterday or the day before yesterday, during a discussion at the Committee on the Education of this Assembly, and even today, questions, what could happen to the student, if the employer, for example, works, is incapacitated, the factory closes. I must say that those MPs, who read the law, were able to note that the Ministry of Education established provisions that in the event of the termination of the contract with the employer, for reasons already mentioned for several reasons, why the termination of the contract could take place, and since the school could conclude a contract with several employers regarding one educational profile, that, of course, the student could continue education with another employer. Even the solution that if there is no employer in the territory of local self-government in the field of work of the school, with that educational profile, then the solution has been applied to continue schooling with another employer with a similar educational profile. There's no concern whether they can or can't, whether they finish their education there, depends on them whether they end up at that level or not. The system must be so well-conceived and so well-conceived that there is this vertical passivity and everyone can participate in the education system, i.e. in their education to the extent that they want it. There are very precise provisions that give the opportunity to protect the rights of students. All the other elements of this law, I say there are 41, are a contribution to the good content of this law, and even if any solution is not good. In previous appearances, the minister has repeatedly expressed his will to accept good solutions. So it will certainly be this time if someone has some really rationally useful proposal on how to improve the content of this law, so why not do so. I think it's a very high-quality law and that the benefits of that law will be multiple. My colleague Jokic mentioned on the board the question of the school network the other day. I think the application of a dual education system will largely determine the fate of some schools, because you yourself know what a school means for a particular local self-government. The possibility of children being educated at the level of the territory of a local self-government, for many parents and children is very important, not only from the point of view of learning content but also from the point of view of its future determination whether to continue life in that environment or not. In one word, respected colleagues and colleagues, I think it's a very high-quality law, I think it's a law that will benefit the educational system of the Republic of Serbia and I warmly advocate its acceptance, i.e. to accept and any other solutions that can improve this law. We SPS MPs will, of course, support this law in the voting day. Let me say a few more words about just one bill from this set, since the minister explained it, when it comes to other laws, it is about agreeing with the Law on the Foundations of the Educational and Educational Systems and certain solutions that exist, of course and improving regarding the use of minority languages and other things that are part of the education system, but I will support here and say a few words about the Bill on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement. It's an inclusive preschool education and education project. I think it's one very, very important thing for the entire education system of the Republic of Serbia. I am pleased that we will adopt this bill in the Assembly and thus give the possibility to apply about 50m euros to different levels of the education system, because the law has very precisely determined how these funds will be spent. Most importantly, it is an increase in capacity at the level of pre-school education, the construction of new institutions, the renovation of existing institutions, including the construction of new facilities, the extension of existing buildings, the re-use of other public buildings, including the purchase of furniture, learning materials, equipment, playground for all newly renovated pre-school institutions and the building of capacities for local architects and engineers to carry out those works. We have a very large number of preschool institutions that do not follow, unfortunately, the demographic situation in the Republic of Serbia, and may not be able to monitor, such a system has been created. We know that there are needs for places for children, because the coverage of children in preschool education and education is very important for the education system and practice shows that if there is a greater coverage of children at that level, that, of course, a higher level of participation at other levels of education is also a small number of students falling out of the education system. What's important for this law is that it applies to children from particularly sensitive social groups. It's something that's terribly important. I must say that in 2008 the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System included inclusion in the educational system of the Republic of Serbia. And then there were a lot of critics like today, but as time went by, the number of critics decreased, and then we moved on to concrete solutions that are good for children, because we should always watch children and the opportunity for them to develop knowledge and ability through the education system, to be equal with others. I am very glad that this project will also increase the level of involvement of children in the Roma population, because I think it is very important, because for them the education system should also be open from the lowest level. You know that we have applied some solutions in previous periods to increase their number at all levels of education by operating measures. In one word, I'm glad we're going to pass this law and what the realisation of this project will begin as soon as possible. Ministers, as I conclude, on the basis of the experience that I have had in the application of certain international projects, please, as much as you can, reduce the impact of various experts on the interpretation of the application of this law, so that the unit is formed as soon as possible, that the works start, that the money be used, that the number of preschools increase and that the number of children is as soon as possible in these institutions and that the sooner they become involved in the education system. In one word, the SPS will vote in favour of all these bill proposals, because we think that it is absolutely improving the education system of the Republic of Serbia, and I want to congratulate the ministry once again on these solutions that are now the subject of the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23185	Thank you, Professor. I'll work it out. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23186	I'm going to take the chance to thank my colleague, Žarko, because he really read this very closely, and I didn't get the impression that everyone had entered this matter in such detail. He really studied it properly and looked at all the solutions. Since he ran the system longer than I did, this is a special compliment to me. The second thing, of course we watched what most European countries, China, etc. did. So they had personal contact when they were preparing the law. We've been doing this for over a year and we've been watching the Visegrad Group, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia, especially because they're closest to us. We watched Slovenia and the Slovenian minister several times. They made that failure, they prescribed the Australians' dual law, so they're changing it again. We didn't get into any of those traps. In general, the story and your advice on experts, I'm very careful here, so all that's called an expert, so make yourself some more domestic experts, here today some are mentioned, just asking God that these money don't go to such experts, because 75 million euros don't know where they've gone so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23187	Thank you, Minister Sarcevic. The word has a national MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23188	Thank you. Today we have four educational laws on the agenda. At the previous session, we had the same roof educational law and, by the amount of educational laws that come into the National Assembly, we would think that it was some major and important educational reform. Chairman, if I may just ask a little bell to silence the MPs. Thank you. Unfortunately, that's not true. But we don't have any reform here, we have patched up on the torn coat of our education system crying for reform. The outcomes of our education are bad. Officials who run the health ministry and in debates also acknowledge that. So it would be perfectly normal and logical for us to now ask ourselves why our educational outcomes are bad at the end of primary school education, and that compared to the answer that we get with a good analysis, we make a plan for what we're going to do to improve these outcomes. But we're not even asking why our educational outcomes are bad, we're asking a question -- what do we do with bad educational outcomes? Then, when you have the wrong question, you have the wrong answer, i.e. A solution to a problem you didn't get a good look at. In order to solve bad educational outcomes, we are offered dual education. This will not solve anything, but will take us a few steps back and, most importantly, will only legitimateize the existence of bad outcomes and keep the status quo, in which absolutely nothing will change in our education system that, I repeat, is crying for reform. Our education system is bad, starting from preschool, through primary school, to high school education. Two of the most important reasons for that. The first is that this system is unfair, and the second is that it's outdated. It is unfair to force and favour children of better parents, while leaving behind children of parents who have more modest receptions, especially children from sensitive social groups. It's outdated because we keep sending 21st century children to schools that work according to the 19th century model. So instead of starting something to decide that our system is educationally modernized, we are introducing a dual education that will accept bad outcomes and make our children a cheap workforce, not for the domestic industry, because we don't have a domestic industry. Unlike Austria, Germany, Switzerland, which has a strong domestic industry and in which the concept of dual education has a much more meaningful application, amongst us who don't have a domestic industry, this concept will only create cheap labour for foreign corporations that won't even come from itself, but we will attract them and pay them to come here to employ the cheap labour force that we have produced through dual education. In order for dual education to have a purpose with us, we need to have a strong domestic industry. In order to have a strong domestic industry, we must have entrepreneurs. In order for us to have entrepreneurs who are going to start the industry, we need to have quality education. We are devastated by the crisis of the 1990s, transition, education has collapsed, and we are now in a similar situation, in which, after World War II, Finland, which came out of World War II, was equally devastated, without any domestic industry, and one of the resources they had were forests, as one of the resources we have is agriculture. They then decided to declare the most important resources of the state and society the brain and set out to reform education. They didn't get where they went overnight, it lasted a few decades, but as you know, students who go out and the Finnish model of education in Finland achieve the best results on PISA tests and Finland has the least difference in educational outcomes between the worst and the best students at the end of education knowledge, in the educational between the worst and the best students at the end of education. What we need is a reform in the Finnish model, not a dual education, because long-term dual education will do nothing, but it will only be a patch, temporary to a system that has to change from the root. Why is our system educationally unfair, starting with preschool? First of all, we have one wrong premise that preschool institutions serve to protect children. It's an obsolescence in the entire system. Our preschool network can't accept all the children. In the end, who enters these preschool institutions, the one who has to pay, and the name of preschool education and education should be changed to preschool education and education, because just three and a half years after school starts, we have the most active development of higher congestive functions and they need a stimulating environment that will stimulate this development. Of course, children of better-standing parents, even if they do not go to kindergarten, have a stimulating environment, enough stimulating in the family to encourage this higher conservative development, and children from the most sensitive social groups must have the priority of getting to those kindergartens, to get to that preschool education just in order not to begin with the primary school itself but to be in short supply of the other children. As you know, our preschool coverage is extremely low. In 2010, it was 48, 2016, we heard here yesterday, it was 52%. Unfortunately, this 4% improvement is probably not due to an increase in coverage, but because of the decline in birth rate, but even if the increase in coverage is insufficiently increased. Our preschool must be available to children and must be absolutely free of charge for parents. It's the only way to end the unfair differences between children, better parents and children of poorer parents. Then when kids go to elementary school, it's just a special story. I have a kid in seventh grade primary school, everything I'm saying, I'm talking about in practice. Our basic problem, our primary school education system, is that children at school don't learn. Children go to school to apologize or dictate some facts, some kind of material and tell them what to learn at home. Like, God forgive me for going to college. Then these children come home, and if they have parents who know material, who are highly educated, they'll help them, but if parents don't know the material, they can't help a child master and learn at home what he didn't learn at school. I don't know German, and I can't teach my son German. He has to learn that. What happens when a parent doesn't know? Well, he has to pay. He has to pay for a private professor because he didn't learn at school, and he can't even learn with the help of his parents. Please, there are three tables in the hall at the schools on September 1st where three foreign language schools are advertised. It's a conflict of interest. In schools where children should learn foreign languages in foreign language classes, possibly in extra class, and additional teaching is a special story. In theory, an extremely beautiful concept, in practice, does not work. Complementary classes are not being conducted, and even if they are being maintained, there should be more than a week so that children can overcome what they do not master regularly. So there's nothing free in basic education that's mandatory. What children don't learn at school, a parent has to pay a private professor to learn at home this afternoon. The kids have a double school. In the morning, they are obliged to attend school, spend the afternoon and afternoon studying and doing homework, taking lessons with private teachers. These private professors and those foreign language schools are a terrible blow to the parents' pocket. When you add the costs of the textbooks, the costs of the trip, the costs of the accessories, please, this September I allocated 15,000 dinars for the textbooks and 13,000 dinars for the two-day trip to Zlatibor, I could send it to Greece. So, in September, 28,000 dinars fell hard on me and I'm on a parliamentary salary. Two years ago in September, a cashier at a supermarket complains, two children have a single mother, a husband divorced from who doesn't pay child support, needs two sets of textbooks to buy and say – what do I do? He works for 22,000 dinars. And imagine 15,000 for one textbook, another 15,000 for another child, 30,000 and 2 times 13,000 for a field trip, what's free of charge in our basic education? We have to stop looking at education as a cost and start looking at it as an investment. The MP group "Enough Has Been" believes that from preschool through primary school, down to secondary education, all costs related to the stay of children in school, for learning and teaching must be paid from the Republic of Serbia's budget. I'm just asking you, don't say there's no money. The money for this investment has to be found, because if we don't, we'll still have bad educational outcomes at the end of education and we'll have cheap labour for foreign corporations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23189	Thank you, Mrs. Stamenkovic. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23190	I'd agree with you on a lot of things, starting with the Finnish lessons, but let's agree that there are two generations of congregation arrangements to agree on it, so two years of preparation, and I don't even get ready for a year, there's a realisation waiting for me. I just accepted doing this to change it, and I don't make any real things better. We'll have a big work meeting for the weekend, we're waiting for the system law that's been introduced, you see that we've introduced outward planning and learning instead of drumming. This has to be done. This SBS we now have is 27.4m euros, followed by training. We had a preparatory meeting in Vrnjačka Banja with all the training centres of teachers. It's a big deal. So, 80,000 people, and that's why we're doing a change in school management, because we have bad managers, they need to pull it out. We're looking for high competencies in a year. So, all this trouble, the bad trip, the expensive trip, the bad food, we're all gonna get to know the public for ten days, about that much time for teams and commissions to come out and work on it. We have much better ideas and I think it's all too expensive and rude, and we'll also have a plan and a way to achieve student excursions, excursions, make it where and where better and cheaper to be parents. When it comes to the Law on textbooks, I mentioned last time, we will probably see each other here again in the National Assembly and the National Qualifications Framework Act is also a condition for the SBS. We've believed in a year and three months we've done what's been done a lot longer, and the models we're introducing are much more quality and it's going to contribute much more to this happening. It's a big system, you can't put some kind of magic powder on it and expect it to work right away. It's a lot of bad habits. It's a lot of bad indiscretion. I could criticize much more than all of you here, because when I got here, I thought it was bad, and now that I've seen it, it's much worse than I thought. So this team is going to do it much faster than they had a chance for both the Finns and the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23191	Thank you, Minister. The word is Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23192	Thank you Minister for reminding me of something I wanted to say, which is very important, which is that we have no consistency in politics, but they change from minister to minister. Kolega Obradovic has been the first minister since the ruling majority was in power. My son was in third grade then, and he happened to hear a minister passing by saying all the kids would get laptops at school. Here, for four years, the kid's been asking me when this laptop's coming? Since you two were getting along so well before and respecting each other, I am now asking you, will there be any of these laptops, which my colleague Zarko Obradovic, is today a National MP, and once a minister, promised to the children and what can I say to the child? A year later, we had a new minister who didn't last, and I'm not sure if I remembered the good name, Tomislav Jovanovic, right, he was talking about the Finnish model. Lap cannons didn't mention it. Then the following year, we already had Srdjan Verbić, who didn't talk about laptops or Finnish models, but began to appear in dual terms. And now, here you are, this is too serious for us to change it from minister to minister. Can we catch one direction and say, we're going for a Finnish model, so it'll take a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23193	Minister Sarcevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23194	We're not going on a Finnish model, we're going to see what suits us there, we can't be Finns. A lot of things out there from a Finnish model that is now completely redesigned, only now would this one not fit us. We're not in those conditions, in those shoes. I didn't promise anything I couldn't do, but I promised I'd bring in the information and I introduced it. We've now introduced two loans that we may be doing sooner than we promise when it comes to digitizing teaching.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23195	Thank you, Minister. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll be back at 3:15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23196	Dear Members of the Parliament, Your Honor, we can continue our work. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23197	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the SNS Group is very pleased to support the draft laws that we are discussing today, with great satisfaction, as we do every time not hide that what represents good solutions, solutions that make our society more modern, solutions that make our society more efficient, solutions that no doubt improve important sectors in our society, have our support. And in that sense, not only do we express our complex will as a parliamentary group, but we also thank all representatives of coalition parliamentary groups who have expressed their support, the support of their parliamentary groups, the proposed laws. When it comes to laws which provide for the validation of conventions, precisely for the reasons proposed by the promoters, therefore, for the sake of improving the opportunities for the security, security of our citizens, when it comes to meeting important standards, standards that apply in the developed world, we believe that it is useful for our country to support these conventions. Today, there have been different dilemmas and issues as to what are interrelationships, and specifically on the topic of the convention on fuel and waste in a specific area. It should not be, nor for anything else, too much effort for anyone who wants the work of a MP to be done responsibly, who wants to know the contents of what we are discussing, to clarify every relationship. Let's just say, specifically on this point, it was enough just to realize that, if it were the issues of the Institute and the Vinc reactor, that it was one-on-one, directly related to the question of scientific work and research. So there's absolutely every place in the set of laws that come from the ministry that covers this resistor. When it comes to an international agreement whose content is the loan, an important loan, it is also a pity that over some things, in a desire to sound pompous, in a desire to sound important, goes over those contents that are afterwards the subject of someone's misunderstandings. Today there was also talk about preschool education, about capacity issues, about preschool institutions. It is this agreement, through the implementation and the value of $50 million, that should allow for further improvement of opportunities in this particular matter. In the light of this bill, the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement stands – 17,000 new places. In pre-school institutions, there should be a good end result in the implementation of this very agreement, in those geographical areas in Serbia where the need for this capacity-building and the greatest is needed. How? Through the programs of building completely new objects, through the programmes of revitalisation, rehabilitation of existing and through the programmes of expanding capacity of objects that are already serving for these purposes and in this area. So it's black on white about something that can only be seen together as good and useful, as well as when it comes to proposed amendments and additions to laws that are really a kind of synchronization with the roof law that the National Assembly has positively declared, right here in this room. But not only that. When you look, one after the other, the bill for amendments and additions to the law and in the field of preschool education and education, both in the field of primary and secondary education, carry with them more than one good thing that will certainly be, indisputably, good for anyone who wants to approach this business with open mind, open heart, not to deal with those damn reflexes in the need to be against. So if you look, say, for example, at preschool education and education, isn't it good and isn't it useful when you expand the circle of children who have the right to this kind of education and education? It's just good. Who could be against such a solution? This solution is also one of the proposals implemented in the proposal for amendments and additions to the said law. Who could be against modernization in any way? Against the fact that, for example, records will be conducted electronically, with all the exchanges of words, sometimes with meaning, sometimes with arguments, and sometimes completely devoid of any content? But with all this exchange of words about modernization, about the application of modern technologies, who could be against the introduction of such a thing in practice? Or is it against the possibility that parent advice, just established by that roof law that we discussed together here, live, that they can hear themselves, and that they too have their place in the whole system? That, ladies and gentlemen, is good stuff. These are the things that deserve support. If we are talking about a proposal concerning the basic level of education, once again, we have equalisation by rights and opportunities to participate in certain programmes for private and state institutions. Something that has so far been thought about specific methods in education and education, was the exclusive possibility of only private ones, is now available for implementation, for implementation in practice by a wider set of institutions. Isn't that good? Isn't it good when today's circle of faces spreads again, a circle of children who will be entitled to free transportation? Well, it is good. Is there anyone he can think of, not to represent, not to declare his position, but simply to think of one reason why it's wrong? It's not safe. Is there any reason to speed up the development of entrepreneurship, with all the stories and so many public and declared common desires? We do not support this development of entrepreneurship at the level of primary school, for example through the work of school cooperatives. There isn't. The arguments against such solutions, there is no. They don't exist, they can't even make it up. When we talk about high schools, isn't it a notorious fact that he can only use society when he introduces an obligation to take care of what results he achieves, how high he meets standards, to compare himself with others in both the country and the world? Well, the very obligation to participate in tests on both national and international terms is being introduced with the proposed changes and additions. Is there something wrong with that? Isn't it just useful to have information about whether you're good or whether you need to be better? If you need to be better, where exactly? Once again, simple things and something that citizens who look at this must understand, they certainly don't understand when they come across undeniable good and useful things, and they get a lot of criticism as a reaction. This brings us to a new draft law on dual education and secondary education. If anyone really wanted to look honestly at the content, meaning and context, could it be challenged that it is a programme that satisfies the good interest of students, while at the same time satisfying the good interest of economic operators, companies that will participate in these programmes and good interest schools, good interest of the state that has its natural place in the complete system and this problem. Is it or is it not a good interest for students to have more knowledge, greater competence, more expertise, better, more perfect skills, is there anything controversial about it? Of course not. Can it be achieved that someone will further strengthen themselves for more encounters with practical work, through training, personal training in practice, through the opportunity to see how in a real, business environment things work, to see them, to feel them, to participate in them, to be part of a collective, to learn something that has not been able to learn so far, to acquire some additional skills that he has not had the opportunity to acquire so far? What can be controversial about it? Isn't that someone tomorrow, when they learn all this, mastering and becoming a more complete person in that sense, not on that labour market that's so many times mentioned today worth more? Of course he will. It's simple stuff. It's impossible not to understand. The stories of a cheap workforce that will be established by God when the Dual Education Act enters into force are empty flossules, completely empty, echoing empty, ladies and gentlemen. Cheap labour is a labour force that has no specific skills, which is not in a position to choose at all what it will do, where, with whom and under what conditions. One who carries more knowledge with him, more skills, more skills, more ability, which concrete work can do in practice, so of course it's worth more and he has a lot more room to choose, to decide, to negotiate better tomorrow with a potential employer -- I know that and I know that, I have proof that I know that, in something I'm successful, I have proof that I'm successful, someone even gave a grade, someone has established, evaluated how well I'm doing. Isn't his position on the market only stronger tomorrow? Of course it is, it's the direct interest of our students. There have been programs of professional practice so far, it is true, but why not pay attention to what and what effect. In the light of the bill's proposal, statistics are given, statistics that no one, not even those who gave themselves that comfort, nothing deserved comforts to pronounce these complete nonsense like these stories of cheap labour, even several times today was heard – slaves and slavery. Whoever did this, he mentioned it, and yes, that statistics that say that practice is missing from our students, it's true, they also said that you really need tomorrow, as an effect, to have a larger number of students, finished students, people who enter the labour market, who will be able to find a job. Finding it doesn't just mean joining something that exists. Finding in the spirit of that enterprise, ladies and gentlemen, means you might start your own business. Isn't that a good interest for society and these young people, but also for all the others and those that young people might be hiring tomorrow in companies that start on their own? Isn't that something that represents an extra swing for the economy, and for growth, so many times mentioned, today and not just today? Undisputed good, clear, useful. Can anyone not see the interest of these companies? No, he's not looking at the fact that, other nonsense, we've heard and that, they get free labour in unlimited quantities. It is fully known which profiles exist, which programs on them and how many students and what is the elemental interest of each employer. I'm talking about the employer as someone who owns his own capital, he runs his own company, and he won't hurt himself. The one who thinks of his own interest, what kind of worker can he want? A worker who understands business, who is experienced and who has some work result. He needs a worker like that, not someone who's just started a job, he's been learning for a year or two, and then he's been replaced by a new one who's doing it all over again. It's just so companies don't meet with that kind of character, but with a good, trained, playing frame, a character that carries knowledge and quality, these programs are proposed. So it's at least simple to understand. Schools that had their own expenditures and the state on their part to equip classrooms, workshops, material procurement will be relieved now that the focus of these needs is being shifted to companies, so the disbursed will be able to invest in other aspects, to make education more quality, additional, to benefit them, and I guess that's easy to understand. It can't just be understood by someone who won't. The one who won't, he's able to say in two sentences two completely opposing things. For example, we already had this, remember, school of students in the economy, right into the next says – you are now introducing slavery and child labor. Come on, guys, if we're going to be critical, at least make it look like something, make sense. Was it already, so it wasn't worth it or is it now for the first time, so it's a disaster? He can't do both. That alone says enough how realistic it can be against this proposal. He can't do anything. The most difficult dirty business, the termination of the contract after two months, people, education is a matter of free choice. Everyone, like so far, will, as from now on, make a decision for himself whether he wants to be educated at one level or another, and within that level at this or that school, for this or that program or profile, whether he sees himself in a career at this or that place, whether he's interested in that or this kind of work, for that or this company, the potential employer. It's never been legally imposed on anyone, it can't be. These bill proposals at least. This open field of free elections where anyone can build happiness for themselves based on their abilities and capabilities will be as open as it was, only the potential, anyone who steps on it, its personal potential will be greater and it will have a position to move in these elections in a way that is more useful to him. Once again, tomorrow, and tomorrow, for his family and all those he will potentially employ with his work, for the whole society he's working on. The story of the tycoons, the stories of the rule of law, the stories of a safe state might be best left behind, because when we talk about good interests, it's a good interest for those who started those topics. It has nothing to do with the proposed laws, but it has to do with the labour market and economic opportunities in the country. Let them refrain from mentioning the tycoon those who are confidently known to have been financed by tycoons during a period of self-destruction of this country's economy, when they made disasters on that very market, in a period when hundreds of thousands of people were left out of work, that no time is being spent today, not today, not for any other time in vain stories of false child care by those who have already shown that they are unable to care for the fate of another man, nor for his children, and we are talking about hundreds of thousands of fates, hundreds of thousands of families. It's absolutely not worth it to them as a theme. The textbooks, kindergartens, none of it, ladies and gentlemen, can compare if you look at today's good results and opportunities in the country with what the on-call critics of everything that exists left behind. If we mention Belgrade and those kindergartens, let it remain recorded that there are eight thousand more places in those kindergartens today than in their glorious time, that this very bill that we are going to vote on, because we are worrying about the good things and the good of this country and we are getting older, there will be 17,000 new places. Let it remain noted that Serbia today has real growth and as much as someone has been trying to explain that it is terribly unhappy that the real plus 2-3% for it is private, intimately bad, it is plus real 2-3%. That's not their minus 3.6%. To compare with each other can't. It's the sky against the earth. One hundred and thirty thousand new jobs with solutions like this can no longer be measured from half a million jobs lost. It's heaven and earth, one more time. In these things we measure ourselves we can always and the answers will always be clear, the answers will always be on the side of those who take care of this country, those who are able to provide the result for this country. Alexander Vucic, SNS, the parliamentary majority will continue to look to the good interests of all our citizens and countries as a whole in a proper way, among other things, and the quality laws for which, once again, you have our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23198	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23199	Thank you, President. I think you've hurt Article 27. The Rules of Procedure, which stipulates that you should take care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, and in relation to Article 101, i.e. the moment when the chairman Marinkovic decided on the eve of the break that the work would continue at 15 hours and 15 minutes. You didn't chair, which is perfectly logical and clear from what I'm saying, but you started the session a long time ago, right after 15 hours. I believe that you have also threatened the right of interested MPs to continue the session from the beginning, but have also brought to an unfortunate position several of the guests you have invited here to participate in the work on behalf of the government and the government authorities, to hear what anyone has to say, possibly to respond, because on several occasions with a delay, I believe, at 1515 hours to continue the session, as your deputy, that is, Vice President Marinkovic said when he decided to take a break. So please take care of it. Yesterday, too, at one point we had a break and a continuance before the time for a break expired. I asked you not to do this further, because, I simply say, we should participate and listen to and follow a debate that will take a few days, not only for television transmissions, so that the camera can catch the speaker and that is enough for the viewers, past this hall, but we are MPs here to participate in the highest house together in the debate, and to participate, we must have the opportunity to hear in a valid way all the parties that participate in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23200	Article 27 is general nature. I assume you were referring to article 101, in which there's no question of what you're saying. It's probably not defined by the Rules of Procedure whether something starts a minute or not sooner. In my class, we started a minute earlier, and I apologize for that, but not as much as you said. But when I entered the O.R., Minister and Associates from the Ministry of Education were here and MP Vladimir Orlic, who came in line. If that's my fault, I apologize, but none of the other MPs were denied the right. You raised the Rules of Procedure as soon as you entered the O.R., so it doesn't apply to associates from the Agency of Directors, who came after the raised Rules of Procedure. You remembered that later. So, since there is no adequate member of the Rules of Procedure, we can vote on Article 27, if you insist. But there was no intention of me making it impossible for Vladimir Orlic to be heard by any of the MPs and vice versa. So, it's also about whether or not someone wanted to do something, but whatever you want. Do you want to vote? (Marinika Tepic: Yes. Yes. Thank you. Other authorities who have the right, such as Mrs. Olena Papuga, are now out of the O.R. Maybe he'll use his right later. We're moving on to the list. The first speaker is Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23201	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the law on dual education is very important for the further social and overall development of the state, especially when it comes to underdeveloped areas where the need for education with work is very pronounced. Many foreign authors point out that education has become the safest and longest way to the country's financial stability. In doing so, our experts from the Bosniak Democratic Community point out that the diversity of education is an essential component of the financial success and independence of a society. A wider selection of educational profiles and shapes allows for greater motivation of young people in the process of improvement and advancement. This is why we particularly welcome that the link between the dual system and career leadership is highlighted in this law. One of the basic remarks given to the dual system is the link to the new flexible labour market, especially in subsequent stages of individual development, when it is forced to apply the workplace and the company. It is precisely a solution for such cases to connect employers, schools and local communities through career management and adaptation to the characteristics of the dual system. This makes us very much involved in modernising the relationship between the world of work and the world of education. The future of our education is in the career education process, as today's students, when they appear on the labour market, will change from three to seven careers. If we establish a relationship between individuals who plan to develop with an individual's career, we will be able to respond without a problem to the needs of a flexible labour market and get workers capable of all kinds of market challenges. Career education, based on knowledge building and skills throughout the working century, must be monitored at the level of the state and should have a significant incentive to preserve human resources, so that it must be monitored from that level. Only the Chamber of Commerce can adequately implement the inclusion of employers in the career management system. If the Chamber of Commerce is not involved and employers in this kind of education are not activated, it will not be possible to prevent the outflow of young people, nor can they be motivated for lifelong education. Modernisation of the dual system in Germany, Austria, Switzerland has just insisted that education institutions connect in all segments through career management with employers, creating different forms and instruments, such as the competence passport in Germany. And, our experts also, I want to make that out, by analysing this law with the Slovenian Law on Dual Education, say that this law of ours is much more advanced and better done than, say, Slovenian. So we think this is a chance to motivate both employers and young people to perfect and work better. Also, other draft laws in the field of education are well prepared and will have our support. However, what, respected ministers, should do as soon as possible, is to implement legal provisions, because unfortunately, we still have directors on the ground who abuse the position, do financial malfeasances, and because of their haughtiness and willfulness suffer students and parents. Among the examples expressed, where a rapid reaction is needed by both the Ministry and the Educational Inspectorate, is the primary school "Stefan Nemanja" in Novi Pazar. You have almost visited that school because it was meant to implement a 500,000-euro donation for the reconstruction of roofs, sewers and other networks and, of course, facades, of which 360,000 were provided by the Kingdom of Norway, 70,000 of the Governments of the Republic of Serbia, and 70,000 of the city of Novi Pazar. When you, ministers, visited this school with the Ambassador of Norway, His Excellency Arne Sanes Bjornstad, a platform was set up to build a facade. But a few days after that visit, the platform was removed, and the facade was not made. But the bigger problem is what is the director of this school, Mr. Edin Dupoljac, seems to have had little of that 500,000 euros, so the parents who paid for textbooks that they would get through school and students who still don't have those textbooks, therefore, denied their right to do so. My parents gave me money. Here, it's the second month of the school year, we're on the trimester. Students at this school still don't have textbooks, even though their parents paid for their textbooks, and they went shopping through school. When they were asked to get their money back, the director said that the money had left for the reconstruction of the school and was being managed differently. Also, students were asked to do so. A student dinar...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23202	MP, time. Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23203	So, because of all this, I urge you to get to law enforcement as soon as possible and send an inspectorate to this school immediately, in order to resolve this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23204	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23205	I'm very sorry to find out this way that you've spoken directly, but there are more problems. You know we're changing the principals of the school board, and we're in trouble again. The assistant who led the inspection was changed, also due to some of his failures, and the law came into force. We've had a lot of meetings to warn people to study him first and act on him. The law makes it very clear that lawyers, school secretaries, who essentially need to protect their legality and we are going to talk about it anyway these days.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23206	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23207	First, a few words about the Preschool Education Act. A more diverse system is certainly needed to contribute to quality overall development and the welfare of preschool children in accordance with their needs. For this very reason, we have also proposed the introduction of an obligation instead of merely the possibility of a preschool institution that enrols a child from a sensitive social group establishing the need to provide additional educational, health and social support to the child. At the same time, if the objective of individualisation is to take care equally of the needs of all children, both children from sensitive social groups and their needs for socialisation and interaction with children in development groups, as well as all those other children in relation to the children mentioned, as well as the needs of gifted children, who should have the same right to individual work and support in progress. And, finally, when it comes to this law, if many changes are made in order to comply with the Law on Higher Education, then in order to respect and protect the rights acquired in law, in an appropriate way, the persons who have completed professional specialist studies should be included in accordance with the regulations applicable to the entry into force of the new law, i.e. until September 29th this year, which we have proposed to our amendments. When it comes to the Law on Dual Education, since the proposal is problematic on a number of grounds, we find it impossible to fix it, and therefore we have not submitted corrective amendments. Although the reform of secondary vocational education can affect the problem of unemployment, but not to solve it, regardless of the explanation given so far, the question arises – why are the German, Austrian and Swiss models, models of a state with a strong economy taken as a role model in a country like ours? At the same time, most countries have defined instead of introducing dual education as a serious reform of secondary school programmes, putting a special emphasis on laboratory equipment, workshops and providing conditions for professional practice. To be more specific, the proposal for a law on dual education is problematic on the following grounds - from the point of view of basic human rights and children's rights, because in fact it is about a contract that obliges minors to meet labour obligations and which therefore contains the potential for forced labour, it is problematic from the point of view of transferring part of the responsibility to create an educational policy from the Ministry of Education to one interested organization, such as the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia, it is problematic from the point of view of creating a high corrupt risk, because the Chamber of Commerce has been given jurisdiction without the relevant mechanisms of control and narrowing down discretionary powers, which is spoken of by the Anti-Corruption Agency, it is also problematic from the point of view of solving, i.e. does not solve the problem of unemployment and that triple - students become unemployed who wait for work, because they are paid 70 % of the minimum costs of their jobs, because even their businesses are not too busy at the point of employment, and their jobs are too. Because of everything previously said, this law will only speed up the departure of young people from the country, because we will create generations that will not be able to be employed in the country, and will not be able to continue schooling because of poor preparation, and if they do, it will only be, however much the minister calls politics, a cheap workforce. If indeed we had become a country of cheap labour, the recent news that Priti Group from Bangladesh, a state symbol of cheap labour, is opening a textile factory in Sombor. To conclude, true education is not only what can be immediately cashed out, or what is in the function of the economy and the markets, but what creates independent citizens and the city and enriches the character, and that is, by all accounts, not the purpose of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23208	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23209	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have heard more than once that the state of the labour market, as well as the system of secondary vocational education in Serbia, is a lack of compliance with major and real needs in the economy. But we also heard from my predecessor, a colleague of Marinkovic, that this is one socially responsible law, first of all, that not all children are born to be theorists, but we have to think about children who are simply practitioners. As it is known to all of us that even today, years ago in the existing system of education, there has been some cooperation between education and economy, not in a very valid way, but we hope to make it all right in the future. Before I say anything about the situation in Nis, and getting ready for this topic, I asked for data on dual education without mentioning these countries that we received in the material, these are Austria, Switzerland and Germany. I saw data from France that in 2015 284,000 of these contracts were completed, of which 95% of them were children just opted for the private sector and 5% for the public sector. In 2016, the number increased and from year to year in France the number of contracts signed on dual education increased by almost 2%. What business areas, where contracts were concluded, 65% was industry, then construction, agriculture, etc. In French experience, such contracts are concluded with companies that have 10 and more employees, most of which have 50 and more employees. The students' growth is also recorded, someone mentioned today that when they complete the contractual period of dual education, they continue with higher education in vocational studies. As for, say, Norway, according to the last generation of high school graduates, the school finished nearly 65,000 students. Of the number 37,600 or 58% of them completed a dual model of education for different professions. It is also interesting that dual education in Norway has been made possible throughout life and is not limited to high school age only. During dual education, pupils earn a certain fee for which the employer does not pay taxes to the state, or social security, but that period is accounted for in the student’s working period. What happens in dual education schools, or how Nis responded to the dual education system? Nis who, as you know, fully stopped by opening new factories "Beneton", "Jura", "Aster textiles", "Leoni", "IM Elektronik" and "Jonson Electric" showed the need for a particular type of worker. However, the situation was next, these profiles were on the national employment service's record, but they were not adequately technical and technologically trained, so employers had a special obligation, i.e. they had to organise additional training for work. With that in mind, I don't know if you missed last year, it was in the media that the low-level machine school and the Faculty of Machines adapted their teaching plan to the needs of the economy, so their students and students became scholarship students of Johnson Electric. Otherwise, in Nis, high school students are educated in 13 secondary schools and work for 66 educational profiles, of which 14 are in the dual model. The dual educational profile, i.e. dual educational profiles, are represented in nine secondary schools with one, two or three departments in the domain of production and in the domain of services, 12 educational profiles are in a three-year duration and two are in a four-year duration. I'd like to make an example of another school that has a dual model of training technicians protecting against four-year-old fires. The Nis Law School, which otherwise has long-standing co-operation with schools in Germany, Ludvig Erhar and Kalhman Shule, which have been implementing a dual education system for many years. Educational profiles in the Legal and Business School according to the classical model of education mean the formation of virtual companies or, as is commonly said, virtual enterprises, simple children, students learn, perform a simulation of the work of companies in a certain way. In the GTC and the Ministry of Education's "From Graduation to Work" campaign of five educational profiles, the students of this school were promoters of the education profiles of the business administrator and insurance officer, as a view at the level of the Republic of Serbia. This school is very seriously preparing for dual education, and teachers are preparing seminars on dual education. In the end, from personal experience, as a high school graduate or so on. The Shuvar model, at the time, "Electron Industry" Nis was a giant electronic industry not only in Yugoslavia, but also in the part of Europe. In the early 1980s, she sought a specialized department, due to the need for microelectric technology technicians to be educated. Three generations per class were educated, so 180 students, and 10%, I repeat, even 10% failed to get a job, even though the electronics industry was working at full capacity at the time. I therefore find it extremely important that educational profiles that are educated in secondary and classical schools, and especially in the dual model, should really meet the needs of the economy and the labour market, in order for students to get employment opportunities after finishing high school. In the voting day, the SDPS parliamentary group will support a set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23210	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23211	Thank you, President. Dear Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, here today when we talk about education, I think we should all be aware that education is the foundation of society and education, not cost, but investment in Serbia's future. I must say that in the past five years various forms of SNS authorities with coalition partners have not shown in part what I'm talking about. Not you who are the last minister, before you were several education ministers, actually had no results they spoke of when they took over their resources. I will take advantage of the opportunity to tell you, because you are present, for a year and a half, I propose a technical matter, in order to make a small contribution in terms of supporting Serbia's education, it is to agree the Law on student and student standards with the Law on Local Self-Government, so that the presidents of the municipalities and mayors can grant the best students and students from their municipalities not to violate any law. It's just one small thing, but just, I don't know for what reason, it hasn't been talked about yet. As far as dual education itself is concerned, I cannot systematically say that Serbia does not need it. Serbia should also move forward with other countries, and we should find ways to bring business and our education system into line. But I have another problem, and that's what the economy in Serbia is today? Who today is this employer and what structure of the workforce does he require in Serbia? We need to be realistic that most of these investors coming to Serbia today are looking for cheap labour. That can't be the goal of our education system. It must not be a goal that we are now low-skilled, or three-year-old students should train for 20,000, 25,000 or 30,000 dinars, nor, in my opinion, is it normal for the then prime minister, today's president, at a forum in Kopalnik, to say that Serbia's chance in the coming years to attract foreign investors is that Romania as the main competitor raised the average profit of its country. So we should also seek to raise minimum earnings, strive and develop businesses through modern technologies, through a step with all other developed countries, not to educate children to work in low production factories, to knead cables in poor conditions and to be satisfied because they have been employed in a factory where they receive 200 euros in salary. With that 200-euro salary, unfortunately, they won't be able to educate their children tomorrow. That he couldn't help but realize that you hadn't understood the school in the last five years. You are not, because you have not invested or defined sufficient resources to create conditions for the normal functioning of schools and preschool institutions throughout Serbia. You today have unsettled toilets in schools, although the prime minister at the time, Aleksandar Vukic, said he would visit every toilet in Serbia. I didn't notice he went to those bathrooms and renovated them. You have physical halls with which ceilings fall, and you have in particular at my place in Triestenik, in the city where I come from, a school where the ceiling falls. You have schools that can't provide funds, or their parents for talented students who need to go to the competition. A concrete example of physicists from Triestenik, who was named the best physicist in Serbia, did not go to the Physician Olympics because parents did not have the means to give it to him, some others whose parents were more wealthy. I'm sorry that this law relocates part of the cost to the parents, not to mention these businessmen. As far as they're concerned, I don't think they'll be sick, but as far as parents are concerned. Why? Here, in the part of the Preschool Education Act, you gave the possibility to municipalities, or units of local self-government, that they could participate with less than 80% in funding pre-school education. So far, the law has had a minimum of 80%, now it's maximum, but that's why part of the participation of parents who were 20% maximum can now be 50-50. Given the fact that in the previous period, the Government of the Republic of Serbia devastated the units of local self-government by taking a significant part of the funds to them through budget cuts, which, through other competences, is very realistically creating doubts that this burden of costs will be achieved and I assume that this will be, that units of local self-government, municipalities and cities will be passed on to parents. Then they'll say, you know what, because with 20% of the budget we're taking part in funding preschool education, let's cut it down a little bit for some other projects and get into a situation to save some money. So it's not all good and it doesn't say that in the previous period anything was done that we could say – yes, there was a shift, there was a strategy. It's been five years, a few ministers have changed, we've absolutely seen no results, except for the fact that they're spilling costs on their parents, so when we talk about textbooks that aren't free anymore. Also, right here in this bill, we have something that we're not talking about today, probably consciously. It is another new task, a contract with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 47m dinars, which will again return Serbian citizens at one point. How much education is not taken seriously in Serbia is also a united debate where we put education in the same basket today with the management of radioactive waste and nuclear safety in Serbia. At least those points could have been separated because we now have the President of Parliament who is on the Management Board of the ionizing radiation agency, so she could probably have told us something better in the debate on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23212	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23213	Thank you very much. Just a quick answer. About Triestenik, local self-government specifically. It is planned to work as a school center of Technical School, as a center of excellence modeling Valjevo. That's the shortest plan. Hence, the student standard increased in Triestenik for the whole of Pomoravalje, is that that machine technical complex is back in operation. There are not only dual profiles but also profiles of modern technology models that we apply. You're right, we have 38 teams working this weekend. Among other things, we also change the rules when it comes to the use of the right to the student standard and to the general rules. That way we have to change scholarships. That's why Roma children can't accomplish what they've been drawn up with, and we can't fulfill our own personal obligation that we had to, because someone's overly ambitious. The same applies to the required profiles. We're going to change in the next maybe 15, 20 days exactly all of those rules regarding the scholarship of various groups and what you're talking about. I even asked some representatives of local self-government to see that their schools had no physicists, there were no other people, why they wouldn't scholarship those staffs we needed for education. I wouldn't discuss these other things, we've already spoken many times. The Conventions have been waiting for ratification for 20 years. Since it belongs to our ministry, as an intellectual property, many other things, we simply need to settle it and have enough. Is the loan okay? It's very convenient. Do we at this point have any other sources of opportunity to increase coverage, and just now we've talked about how much we need it? We don't, we're going to do the optimization and we're doing it. So, on every major self-government, we're going to open up a month at least one basic school annex that will cross over for those needs. We don't have another way at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23214	Replica, Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23215	I must admit with the president's mention that I have a sincere surprise that today some of the things are reportedly concerned about are not the same things that were worried about at the time when they were asking themselves, when they were shaking whenever they wanted to, when they were able to solve all that was under God's care was controversial. Then it didn't matter. Now it's suddenly as important. We know how important it is, they've shown how important it is to them, but since we're talking about it, we're talking about investment. Is it a notorious fact that countries compete in our region, but not only in our region, that they compete to attract investors? Is that the first anyone's heard of today? Is it normal for Serbia to do what it takes to bring these investments here? Or it's extremely successful, half of everything that comes to our region ends up in Serbia, when we talk about investment. The other half is shared by everyone else. You should read it, not talk it by heart. Whoever was reading could have learned that Serbia is sixth in Europe by the number of jobs opened by foreign direct investments in 2016. With all the accompanying graphics, which says that in a positive recently 54% progressed compared to the previous year. In those things, we are successful. That's what you can see through that number of drives we keep talking about and through that number of new jobs, real ones, where someone makes their money, and that's worth it to him. That's not why people should be insulted and said that their pay is no good. There's pay now. Which can't be compared to when the salary was zero. As justified as he didn't talk today. The World Bank's research says you get four times as much as you invest, if someone missed it and learn it. But if we're talking about participation in kindergarten costs, people, if you're spending something on a particular purpose, the distribution has nothing to do with how much you spend. Two hundred dinars to spend on something, whether in a drink to someone 200 or maybe in two places per 100, so make those two places happy instead of one. It's a matter of elemental logic. I use an example for 200 dinars, among other things, Nadezhda Petrovic. Maybe a team with big dilemmas can look at who that would be.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23216	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23217	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my patient has just escaped. Please let those roaring there, yes, I don't know who's roaring, but to calm him down once. So one of them got away from me, and he was the one who was supposed to be the subject of my speech. So, dual education in the economy is talked about by those who didn't nail the wall. Those who do not know the rubber on the tap to replace, for example, those who were in life on the Management Board of the First Petolite. Sixteen thousand people, an MP who spoke before me, sixteen thousand people, many of whom passed education at the school of students in the economy, left without a job, scavengers, rodents, welders, metals, all of them out of work, while he was on the Supervisory Board along with his mother-in-law. The mother-in-law was the deputy director general, he was the chairman of the Supervisory Board or the Management Board, and the father-in-law of the National Employment Service in Tristenik, and they were all on the Supervisory Board together, and now that I wanted to talk about it, a fellow MP who spoke before me, the great hope of the Wolf descending, Murat-age Pozderca fled out, so I'm going to take my time from my colleague Miletic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23218	Thank you. The word is Diana Vukomanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23219	Thank you. We're talking about a set of draft laws today, but my colleagues and colleagues have so far focused on the dual education law. Of course, as a leftist, I join all of those criticisms that talk about one danger, the danger of turning our children into one new class in the long run, the working class too far, you know what it means to go too far, that means one uncertainty, that they are already from 15 to 18 to 19 years of age, ready to enter a world of work that is insecure, to become workers that will be an infinitely substitutable workforce. So we here adults, who are adults and who have political, legal and any other kind of moral responsibility, talk about minors, about a generation born in 2004, 2005 and who is unable to listen to this debate because it is not interested, and fatefully decides about them. In the light of the law, the figure is mentioned, about 150,000 unemployed young people aged 15 to 24. I purposely mention these figures, because so far, the working century in Serbia has been on account of high unemployment, due to the poor condition in the economy of decades, since the age of socialism that I am not now focusing on a single government, moving into the world of work in some of my 20s. We've always been told by our generations that college should be completed. But now you're bringing children into the world of work in 15 years. I attended a conference, and it vividly reflects what this kind of reform is trying to do, when the Czech minister said – we Czechs, when we don't know what we're doing, do what the Germans are doing. So now you're explaining this reform that goes deep and long-term into the world of work, you're saying that you're going to reform secondary education modeled by the Swiss, the Germans, the Austrians. The countries of a multi-city group, Central Eastern Europe, are also mentioned here, but I am telling you and you all know that the world of work is truly devastating, standards and protection at work, even the conditions of work are very bad. In this explanation, perhaps, and perhaps that was also Minister Sarcevic's case, what are the findings, what are the results of this experiment that has already been conducted, dual education to about 1,200 students, at 21 schools where 88 companies were involved. And I'm also limited by time, so I'm speeding up, and there's a big difference between that ambition for you to engage in this dual education system of the company and local businessmen who are unfortunately at some micro-level or small-scale enterprise. So we're blindly pushing one whole generation, I say, born in 2004, in 2005 into this kind of one experiment, and we're still not aware that it defines their fate in the long term on the labour market and the price at which they're going to have to sell their workforce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23220	The word is Ljupka Mihajlovska.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23221	Thank you. First, I'm going to look at the dual education law for a little while. Somewhere along with me and my entire parliamentary group, you'll see it through the amendments, we don't think we're ready for one of these laws right now. Somewhere that is most controversial in the law is a member who applies, above all, to the number of hours a student can spend in a company or in a factory, it is up to 30 hours a week, which is almost four whole working days, and you will agree that so much time students do not spend in schools, let alone in a workplace. Also, a member relating to the conclusion of a contract between an employer and a student, or a parent, there is no clear definition of who the actual parties are, is a student, or parent. You know that under the Labour Act, a person who is underage can enter into a contract with only the written consent of parents. It was left here that either one or the other could sign a contract and I think that there could be different misunderstandings and abuses and that this, of course, and the whole law deepens poverty among already poor citizens. Namely, what can happen in practice? It may happen that poor families, who live in the country, practically make their children opt for this form of education, because their calculation will be – well, you'll get two, three thousand a week for it, it's about tens of thousands a month, of which we can pay for electricity, heat, to buy yourself something, shoes, for example, better define what college is going to do with it anyway. On the other hand, there is also a situation where a parent wants to have a child, and can allow it to be educated and to continue with education. You know for yourself that our vertical mobility is low, and that the child will insist on defining himself for this form of education, because at that age, every teenager means he has a certain amount of money on him. So, indeed, in the explanation that you gave, in which you explain the need for a law like this to be passed, we didn't see the exact data. It is explained that our curriculas are obsolete, that our curricula and the programme are bad, that our young people who are schooling are uncompetitive in the labour market, but I really don't see how this law is going to work out, because there's no change in the curricula, or that we're introducing some of the occupations that we have deficited, and some of the others that are no longer needed. I think it would be fair for both of us and you who are somewhere proposing this law, that in your explanation, you stated that it was the wish of a man who practically forced you to do so, and you couldn't resist it, and we are facing this law today. You well know that education policies are not adopted in such a way and it is clear to you that this law will not be revived, so probably from there and the idea that its application should only be extended to school 2019/20. A year. What I am also personally and professionally interested in is this loan agreement from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Pre-school Inclusive Education, which is 47m euros. I'm concerned here, as with all loans related to improving the position of sensitive social groups, to which this money will be spent in particular. Probably a lot of you remember the DILS project and the loan we took from the World Bank. Strong money is spent on inclusive education, it's done a lot of things, but sometimes it seems to me that employees in education with the right to deprive themselves of spending most of that money on some education where there's about three days of education and one who educates earns more than a teacher or an educator in two months. I see here that, let's say, these grants that will be conducted by parents' associations to promote pre-school inclusive education are only a million and a half and about four million are allocated to subsidies for children from sensitive social groups and their inclusion in pre-school education, and all other money goes to some expert groups and to the renovation part or possibly the construction of new kindergartens. Well, then we have a project management unit, a task force that provides support to a project management unit, a consulting group, a grant board, and cross-sectoral teams. So, a bunch of teams, a bunch of hunting jobs, various quasi experts, and, unfortunately, another example where children with developmental difficulties are only interesting when some loans are taken, but not when they need something concrete to do, and that is what changes and additions to the Fundamental Education Act testify to. I think we're going back. So again, defecologists are given too much of a role, among other things, because you have given the opportunity to single out class classes in education schools with development disorders, Minister, please answer me that question. This means that children in schools for education of students with developmental difficulties from V to VIII classes can be educated through class classes, i.e. that one person teaches them all subjects. Does this mean that we rule out professors of the classes in the special schools and return to the role of defecologists too much? You know, inclusion is not a matter of one profession, and there's not only one profession to protect the interests of the existence of its profession, to engage. Don't separate your children from your school disability. Here, I'll tell you my example. I'm using a wheelchair, and when there's another two or three people in a public room, I feel uncomfortable, because I feel like we're grouping somewhere, like we're becoming some kind of clan, or whatever, imagine someone who has some kind of express personality traits just to group in one place. So it seems to me, too, that you have not limited the minimum number of students with developmental difficulties in special schools. It's maximum, but you didn't limit the minimum, which means one child can be in class. That, as you know, is not good and is not stimulating for the development of children. I've got a lot more to do, but I'm gonna give my colleagues some time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23222	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23223	Let me answer what you're interested in. If you've looked at it correctly, it's said here – only extremely. So it's not the rule, it's the exception. So it depends on what is the environment and what are the possibilities of human resources. Simply, you can't write it that way, but in practice you will apply the model of resource use and regular school through inclusion and schools with specialists doing so. We didn't shut down those schools.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23224	The word is Mihajlo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23225	Honorable President, honourable Minister, gentlemen, I would say first of all that there is no need to go and talk about Germany, about Norway, about Finland, should go to Valjevo, should go to Technical School, go to Agriculture School and see how dual education is realized. Perhaps, Minister, it was necessary to make a little film, that those who are unwitting look at it, or to print out some brochures, and see the positive things of that dual education. The goal of dual education and the outcome of dual education is a professional and educated worker. The professional and educated worker who will finish the third and fourth degree will be the target of private, will be the target of employers, will be independent enough to determine his path, to choose tomorrow to be a private. What is important, dual education will significantly improve the material position of entire education, students and teachers, as income will be obtained. This is not about working relationship, it is about realising practical teaching, whose realisation will generate income that will be used to make the material basis of education and students and teachers at a higher level. We now have a contract involving the school, the Chamber of Commerce and the employer. The Chamber of Commerce and the employer are on one side. The school doesn't take off, some word for it. I don't know if we read the same law. The school will be present with the employer. A practical teacher will be present, and one who will represent the employer in the process of realising practical teaching will be determined by the Chamber of Commerce. There's the role of the Chamber of Commerce. On the other hand, gentlemen, we have defined ourselves as capitalism. How much easier do you think it would be if dual teaching were realized where the state owned it, or where the company owned the capital? Normally, the employer has his own interests and must protect them, but the law is well done, the school stands and protects the interests of both students and parents. The school can make a deal with more employers. The school can terminate the contract with the employer if student interests are compromised. The school is equipped with school cabinets that can take place, if necessary, and all practical classes. You forget all that and tell the story like we haven't read the same law. Now, when a contract is concluded with the employer, what the minister said nicely, more education profiles will connect with the dual teaching into one, which is very good. On the other hand, the contract that the school will conclude with the employer is at least three or four years old, where the school's interest is once again protected, that the student who started with one employer, if they are good conditions, can end with the employer, which is the same positive side in this law that we adopted. They must commit local self-government to equip schools with school cabinets, so that no practical teaching can be realized with chalk and board. That's why, I say, very important co-operation with local self-government. When it comes to primary education, I would point out what is particularly good, that public and private schools are equalised and that a programme of special pedagogical orientation can be implemented both in public and in private schools. It is a well-defined student cooperative, you have well defined a student cooperative in the Law on Fundamental Education and in the Law on Secondary Education. A student cooperative in secondary education will help to realize dual teaching, dual education, because everything will go through a student society. The members of the student association are both students and teachers, and all this income thanks to the student association will not return to the budget, but will be on the jury account of the student cooperative and serve only to raise the standard of teaching, to improve the material position of both teachers and schools and students. When it comes to elementary school, you've written it explicitly, and through a student cooperative you have to buy textbooks and you have to buy student supplies. It's gotta be a commitment. What's going to happen? The price of textbooks and student income will be at least 20%. That's what they do on behalf of the school somewhere, not to say, directors, assistant directors, teachers somewhere. This must be explicitly highlighted in the work that speaks of the student association. From secondary education, it is good that you pointed out that the Serbian language must necessarily learn whether it is taught in the language of a national minority or in a foreign language. Secondly, it is very important that it is the school's obligation to test students on national and international tests. So it's a student duty. Secondly, the right of students to attend international graduation and, since we talk all the time about the educational process, you wrote explicitly that the parent must come eight days later at the latest to justify, explain the lack of students, because it is the only way to introduce the parents into the educational process, because without parents, without houses, without families, the school is in the educational process powerless. This decadent demonstration of a time in which a parent must fulfill his obligations will surely contribute to the strengthening of the educational role of schools. And finally a good definition of high school. High school, I think you said up to 40%, high school must be a way to study, so, no, not only those technical colleges, but also economic and others, but the students of high school will be able to study and economic college even though, for example, they have not studied accounting, etc. Once again, undermining what is most important would be very good if the employer were Krusik for Valjev students, who had 12,000 workers in 1990. Remember 12,000 workers. We're too pleased in Valjevo today. The average salary is 48 thousand, today "Krusik", after the robbery and what you did in 2000, there are 2,780 workers and we are satisfied. So this would all have had another form, another realization if it were state capital, if you hadn't done what you did in 2000, destroyed and robbed Serbia's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23226	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23227	Dear colleague Jokic, just to say the film exists on the Ministry's website, you can look at Valjevo and other cities related to dual.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23228	The word is Gjorge Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23229	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I've only got a few minutes and I've got a few questions I'd like to ask you, more appeal. The first thing concerns the relationship and the dilemma that exists regarding this proposal is whether and to what extent, although you have been a little insistent on it, but I am not convinced enough that this proportion will be satisfactory and therefore, among other things, our parliamentary group intervened with some amendments. In particular, how to provide the share and quality of general education items in this model of yours. It's not just a rhetorical question, and it's not clear that you and I both know very well that, as I say, being a national feeling, identity to a large extent of future generations depends on how or how you fulfill that task. It's not simple, I have to admit. As I must admit, the situation in this education system is not good, especially in these high school schools where there are really great examples, but there are also catastrophic ones and that something had to be done. Is this exactly what this is? It's a different question now. The second dilemma of mine and key to this bill is the role of the Chamber of Commerce, that is, the Chamber of Commerce in that model of yours. That role is very important and central, and I'm not sure that the Chamber of Commerce can and should carry such a burden. The Chamber of Commerce is one of the basic ad hoc bodies, one contractual, voluntary association of economic operators. I don't see why, let's say, if other laws, and many colleagues have criticised it, went to some kind of centralization and state control of the education system, why, be careful, from the certification of businessmen, or employers, to the training of instructors, these two important and key jobs in your model, why it is entrusted to the Chamber of Commerce, rather than to some inter-resor body composed of representatives of the ministry, your ministry, the Ministry of Labour or the Ministry of Economy, for example. So such a commission or such a body, those three ministries might better and better quality out than I say, the Chamber of Commerce that is not yet qualified for such a thing, and of that approach, than the quality of the choice of employers and the quality of the instructor actually depends on whether your entire model is going to be implemented. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23230	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23231	The Ministry of Education is overseeing entrusted affairs. The chamber proved to be a reliable partner while others slept. Otherwise, according to the new law, it is also regulated that all economic operators must go through the chamber and we have excellent partners. If they do anything wrong, we'll change. When the ratio of generalised subjects and professional subjects is in charge of this is the Institute for Improving Education and Education and all the experts who have worked there for years, and there is a good group of people who understand this, has a very good feeling for this. Our goal is for children and for these models to go through further stages of schooling with the passing of professional graduations and are not made any easier. If someone seems to be working two years in the profession is a poor substitute for a year of learning, and we think they're the competences they need to acquire. So these relationships happen very well. Just before I said so, so it's not just a reform of secondary dual education, it's small, it's only at the beginning. We've done high school and will be informed very quickly, but these days the story of middle professionals who make up 67% is intensively perfected, and there's really something to change. What Yokic said, we have four schools somewhere, a clean unit somewhere, and that quality disproportion is huge.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23232	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23233	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, you've mentioned this well about our secondary education, and even the basic, no offense, I'm very glad that we have so many students awarded to Wolf's degree, that's great, but it seems that the criteria have fallen quite badly and this number of Vukovars and this kind of disaster in the last few years as far as the downfall is concerned, both in the economy and everywhere, something is not in proportion. I wonder if that's where the criteria will be sharpened. I think you'd have to sharpen the criteria because that giving away the grade that is evident and that exists with us, I think that should be stopped as soon as possible. But I'd rather talk here about this dual education. I think this is something that's revolutionary and that's good. I absolutely support it. We've been listening to incredible remarks here. They say we get cheap labour, the employer gets cheap labour, the slaves, we hear the same thing, we get slaves. Now I'm asking if, say, the apprentice used to teach craftsmen, was the apprentice a slave, or was he a craftsman? You've given us one defeating piece of information here, which is that only 15% of the students go to three years of craft education and it's a disaster. And you know why it only goes 15%? Because they destroyed the entire economy, there's nowhere to work? They destroyed the entire economy and now they're telling us that we have cheap labour. Those who destroyed every possible factory and where they even made it impossible for anyone to go and study in a factory and work to train the workforce and make it more expensive on the market. If we're going to get slaves and cheap labor, to be honest, and it's better than not having any labour and having people on the street, like they did the case, and we're not getting slaves, we're getting people who are going to learn something. A more expensive workforce is obtained only if you have a trained worker. We haven't had a single trained employee in years, we've had factory closures. It's the key to our failure, although they didn't need to develop dual education when you didn't even have an economy. Their concept was service, exclusively to tycoons. Services, services and possible work in the administration, and that was, of course, party employment to the unconscious. The production wasn't anything. No one went to hurt. That's why I absolutely support this. Why? Because you've arranged very nicely here that there will be a contract between the employer and the school and between the employer and the student. You know, that's where you make a commitment to that student. He gets work habits. He's not the kind of employer who doesn't care to keep him in that factory, that there, like we had cases in our schools, so you have this practical class, where the students come to spend all day and don't learn anything, but that's how they meet formally that they attended some class and we experience, for example. That someone finishes an electrical engineering school and doesn't know how to fix it. By allowing our students to work in reputed companies, we will get a student who will first acquire some work habits, the second being trained to work on modern machines, which is what we have missed for years and we will definitely get someone who will and how can then start, maybe private business, which is the most important thing. We need, among other things, craftsmen to start a private business. That's what's key. We have young people who finish colleges today, they have no idea what they're going to do, they don't know what they're going to do because nobody taught them what it is and what it means to be innovative in the economy. It's good to change that. This really is a revolutionary shift for me. What I'm afraid of, Mr. Sarcevic, is that this won't apply. That's what scares me, because we're used to learning to work. Please and the entire government, to insist on this, as Mrs. Brnabic insists on digitisation that is very important. Please insist on this and press all schools, to and how they must seek an employer where our students will work and where they will gain knowledge. Only in this way can Serbia go forward, without labour and without trained workers, we will always have, not cheap, no labour force. So, with all my heart, I support this and, as you would say, I will vote for this with both hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23234	The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23235	It's a very important question, and that's an evaluation. We talked last time the system law was passed, and just to get to know the tools that need to be made for that story. The main tool is made, and that's what it's called. National prom, general, professional and artistic. It's a kind of extreme evaluation. The school can, in the meantime, give whatever grades it wants, and if that result doesn't match that external and official one, then the school is in trouble with both incomes and the assessment and licenses of people who do so. It's the main tool. Other tools are, of course, international prom, which now brings the highest international standard, as well as national international testing. So it's something to work on and it's already started. All kinds of graduation were designed, it's also a small one, so it's completely neutral, with all the other tools just evaluating. There will be many more tools to be measured by taking the child’s ability to enroll in primary school and first test as a rapper of his career progress and the potential results he can achieve. That's how teachers are evaluated, because what he can achieve with it, the assessment and the quality of his work. So that's where the tools are important. They'll be worked on for at least another year, two days. By the way, the wolves, everything goes the other way.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23236	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23237	I thank the president. Mr. Minister, we've already said that we consider this bill immoral. We think it is immoral that in the age of knowledge you offer three years of schooling, as a holy grail, we think it is immoral for these children to be paid significantly below the minimum wage, we think it is immoral that you do not in any way commit an employer to hire them, we think it is immoral for you to allow the Republic of Serbia, except for all those great benefits for fake foreign investors, now there is another benefit that does not exist in any country, and these are our children who work for them for free. In one thing, you remain consistent. It is your belief that education should create workers, preferably very obedient, capable of working for very small wages, and possibly from childhood, aware that in front of the employer, who is alpha and omega, they have absolutely no rights. It's your old thesis on how high unemployment is in Serbia because our workers are poorly educated. That's what you like to say, you and our president, and the prime minister, that our people don't have a job because they don't know anything, because they're lazy, because they're waiting for something to fall out of the sky, and because they're incompetent. It is a lie that in Serbia, unemployment is high because people are uneducated. There is great unemployment in Serbia because there are no jobs. And that's the lie you're coming from here. Then you offer us, or to those children who are due tomorrow to enroll in dual education, you offer three more lies. The first lie, that after dual education, they will be able to finish schooling, that only in theory can, but in truth and reality, their level of education, since 80% of the time they spent in the workshop, is so low, that they won't be able to enroll in any college, and that they won't be able to pass that graduation, even if they want to do so. The second lie you offer our children is that this is the easy way to get to work. That's not true, because you companies where these kids are going to work, and there's a key difference between that German model of yours and ours, in no way do you oblige any letter of law to hire those kids tomorrow. The third lie you're selling them is that they'll be able to start their own business. These children, Mr. Sarcevic, will have no means, no knowledge to start their own business. Besides, dual education doesn't serve that. Maybe the most immoral thing you're telling us here today is that we can't talk about being forced, because God, my children are going to choose to go into dual education themselves. Why is this immoral? First because you use the misery of those families. How many families do you think there are in which no one works, where they live on welfare, that will make children go to dual education, because even those 10,000 dinars that that child is going to get mean something to them? Second of all, you're selling them here to us right now, so somebody doesn't like to learn, so my God doesn't have to study doubles, so he'll get free. Do you know how many kids she doesn't like to study? No kid likes to learn, and now you're here selling these stories about how it's a safe way to get them to work, and you're gonna get them to do something for the rest of their lives. So we know what learning through work will look like. We see what it looks like and work in Serbia, what employers do to adults, ready workers who have their rights, and know their rights, and imagine what they will do to children, where the school has concluded with the company, and they have absolutely no rights. You, we told you, we believe that you provide employers with an unlimited source of extremely cheap labour. Those kids will work in those factories while they're at school. The moment they finish school, that employer won't want to hire them, because why, because he's got new kids coming to work for just as cheap money. And not only that, but he's going to have an interest in firing these already existing workers because he doesn't have to pay these kids a full price. We're in a lot of trouble. We'll talk about the amendments. The law shows that you don't care about those children you send to dual education, otherwise you would tie the employer to any kind of obligation to them. And when you finally asked, in your slightly insolent replica of your colleague Bozovic, you said you apologized to parents and children who went to dual education for what we said. You should apologize to them, Mr. Sarcevic, but not for what the Democratic Party is saying, but you should apologize to them for lyingly dragging them into the system of education that will beat them, who will nail them where they are and who will ruin their every chance to succeed in life.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23238	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23239	I didn't list three lies, but one 23 lies you told, so you stayed alive. On the other hand, it's very difficult for me to even comment on this. That's what we talked about on the Education Committee the same way, the same record. You could at least change some order of words.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23240	Here you go. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23241	Thank you, President. Article 107. It's about the dignity of the National Assembly. Minister Sarcevic came to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and it is his duty to respect every MP. It is your duty to defend the MPs from the impolite minister and to warn him when speaking this way to your colleague, my colleague. I think you have violated the Rules of Procedure because you absolutely submit to the Government of the Republic of Serbia every time it comes into this house and when it talks to the representatives of the citizens in this way. Mr. Charcevic, you should be ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23242	Ambassador, first of all, you've shown your face now. You threw everything you said in the water.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23243	That's not how you talk to a lady.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23244	You can't talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23245	The way he talked, that's not how you talk to a lady.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23246	And that means what, so you can be rude? Maybe your voters are expecting it. Ambassador Jerkov, I listened carefully, told the minister seven, eight times that he was lying. You didn't react. That was nice, nice, classy, cultural to you. The Rules of Procedure say that it is the same application for everyone. So the MP must respect the minister and the minister of MPs. And if you don't respond to - lie, lie, lie, lie, lie, lie, lie, lie, lie, one nine times, then I can't ban a minister from using the same word. The fact that you don't hear a letter talking behind you, it's really not my fault. The dignity of parliament is really in no way compromised. Therefore, I did not hurt the Rules of Procedure, because in either case, I did not use the word “a lie. ” The word is a folk letter from Marinika Tepic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23247	Thank you, President. I believe that you have injured Article 103, paragraph 5, which makes it very clear that the president or chairman is obliged to give an explanation on whether he has violated or not, on the matter of advertising, what the MP is advertising, believing that the chairman has violated the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. The chairman can't comment or should not do that, which is what keeps going on here. In your first sentence, you addressed my colleague Balša Bozovic in a way that he showed his true face here. That's not an explanation of whether or not you've broken the Rules of Procedure. So here everyone shows their face, many more of their looks, but you can't comment on what's being advertised through the Rules of Procedure, but to explain and explain whether you think you've broken it or not. I ask you to continue to act accordingly and bring this debate to our end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23248	I can't please you. I gave an explanation, you don't like it, and what do I do? Usually around 4:30 p.m., there are injuries to the Rules of Procedure, which have essentially nothing to do with the violations of the Rules of Procedure. So, in accordance with my powers, the only way I can make order in parliament... (Maya Vidinović: According to the Rules of Procedure!) It's the Rules of Procedure! Yes, I heard you. Otherwise, it has to be done directly, not one after the other. Therefore, I can also decide that there are no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. (Maya Vidinovic: I answered immediately.) Take it easy. You can't yell while I try to explain Marinika Tepic. If you are not satisfied with the explanation, then I ask – are you voting, etc. Usually the MPs turn their backs on me and they are not interested in applying the Rules of Procedure as it should be applied. They usually yell – you didn't ask me this, I don't even finish. I gave an explanation. I can't explain how Marinika Tepic might have, if she were me, given explanations. I'm sorry, this is my way. In a folkly simple dictionary, I explain that Balsa Bozovic was wrong because he did not hear a letter behind him saying what he was saying. He has the right to say – we vote or do not vote, because he is not satisfied, not you, Marinika Tepic, because I did not speak to you. Therefore, you have misused the violation of the Rules of Procedure and I am not obliged to give you an explanation because you have misused the violation of the Rules of Procedure. It's only for me to give you a punishment - a two-minute delay, but I won't. But I won't, because your inexperience justifies you, so I'll give you one more chance. The word has a national MP, Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23249	Madam President, I answered directly as more than the obvious breach of the Rules of Procedure was made. This way I point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure in Article 24. I remind you, although I believe that you are very well acquainted, only sometimes you do not concentrate and do what is your duty, which is that the president takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, what the minister is... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23250	You're abusers of the Rules of Procedure. It has to be done directly. What you drew attention to, Balsa Bozovic has already turned his attention. Therefore, he can't. (Maya Vidinovic: I didn't explain. He can't. I won't punish you. If you wish, it's my right to conduct a session by Rule 27. (Maya Vidinović: I haven't even started.) You explained. The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković. (Maya Vidinovic: I did not explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Don’t shout and don’t do the same thing every day. The word has a National MP Ivana Stojiljković.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23251	Thank you. Dear Ministers with Associates, I would first of all like to commend the large number of laws that you have sent to the National Assembly in a short time, because you definitely see that you are seriously working on reforming education. Don't worry about what the opposition will say. You know very well, and we know, that the only thing they left behind after their 2000 reform is 130 educational profiles that didn't even recognize the National Employment Service. Dual education is definitely Serbia's future, and this is evidence of pilot programmes that have been in dual education since 2013, so for four years. I'll even tell you about one that's going on in my town. But first of all, I want to, just for the sake of the public, to point out why this is important. Why is it important to combine theoretical and practical teaching? We have long complained that our children, even from professional high schools, come out with insufficient practice, or insufficient practice, to start taking things seriously with private workers, who are already looking for a formed worker, or that in some cases they can start their own business. That is the goal of this dual education, which means that we already have one capable worker who can if nothing, if he can't get by on the labour market, start his own business, and that's a big deal today. So, what is still very important to point out, it is that most local self-government has not brought together educational profiles that are formed in secondary schools and market demand, and then we come to surpluses, and of course, unfortunately, the great unemployment of young people in local self-government. Therefore, this direct co-operation of the economy and direct co-operation of the school, i.e. education, is one very important thing and dual education is, of course, one whole process and many richer countries have not certainly succeeded in introducing it in a year, so neither will we. It's definitely a process, and it's a habitation and alignment and, of course, we have to be patient that it shows its results. I come from Užica and you probably know why I said I'd talk about a very good case of dual education, because Užice is probably a leader in the development of dual education, and it turned out very well in technical school, where new departments are developing in the wood and metal industry. Here, above all, businessmen recognized the need due to the insufficient number of experts in the area they needed, and they launched the initiative, not schools. The Technical School in Užica responded to this call and, of course, due to numerous research, coordination, two educational profiles were opened. So that's, the furniture operator with three exits, so three professions, and we have a metal-processing operator, too, with three professions. As the law now provides, there must be and there have been these previous four years of contracts between businessmen and school and also contracts between businessmen and students, or parents of those students who, of course, had the opportunity to get to know each other. What do I want to point out? What's been the problem all day - what happens to students when they're done? I would like to point out that here is primarily the wood industry about domestic companies, and when it comes to the metal industry, it's Valyanica copper and Valyanica aluminum. It is clear to all of us that it is very good companies and that everyone would like to be employed in them, even if they had a college degree. So it's about very good companies. The wood industry even makes such contracts with students that every student who makes a satisfactory success will be safe, so there is a contract to stay in the wood industry, i.e. in the furniture industry, and the metal industry already has great needs in itself, so here we open another section in Užica for the second year. So last year we had one wood processing department, or furniture, another metal industry department, or metal processing, and this year another section is opening up. So there are needs. I believe that this kind of program and, of course, now that there is a law and in other cities it will live as successfully as it is in Uzic. We have everything and we see all the benefits of this dual education, and above all we see the benefits of students, because they are offered three possibilities. So the possibility is that they stay in companies, even if the companies don't commit to receiving the student after a successful school, have the opportunity to start their own business, which without this kind of schooling they wouldn't have, and the third way is to continue schooling if they changed their mind in the meantime and want to get a college degree. So these three years will be recognized as four, of course to wait for their generation, and with the passing of the general prom. I think I've given enough reasons why we'll back up in the day to vote on this bill and all these other ones on the agenda. Look at Užice, a very good example of dual education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23252	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Dubravko Bojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23253	The Serbian Radical Party believes that the laws we are discussing today, due to the importance of the area governed by these laws, should not have been combined in a united debate, but rather lead to a separate debate on each of these legal proposals. There is no more important social activity, and at the same time more sensitive than education and education. Therefore, the attitude towards education and education should also reflect the degree of maturity of society in general. Education is a process of gaining knowledge that has enormous importance in the development of a particularly student population, in the development of swings, imaginations, habits, skills. Therefore, with the proposal to amend and supplement these laws, in search of a comprehensive, serious and fundamental reform of this area, there must be no improvisation, as small mistakes can also produce major consequences. We've had attempts at reform and intervention in the past in this area. These older colleagues remember targeted education or famous "shuvarica", the association is more than obvious who was the author of the perverse project. I've already said that education is a process of gaining knowledge, and knowledge is the way to good. The Serbian Radical Party advocates education that will be adapted to the student, not that we adapt students to education. Speaking last time about the roof law on this subject, I made a few concrete remarks and offered some solutions. Our remarks were mostly on an insufficient fund of physical education classes, then the minister chose principals of primary and secondary schools, then to pour out the teaching staff, teachers of the teaching process in search of better working conditions, as well as overcrowding students with school programs. Here again, even though the Law on Higher Education is not a topic, our objections to this law were “Bologna” and the transfer of the National Accreditation Body and the National Council from the National Assembly and the lecture of these bodies to the Government, i.e. The Ministry. In general floods and Internet fraud, electronic and fast communication and information, children stopped reading. As someone who, by the nature of his profession, was directed to read, I believe that nothing can replace live direct reading, for reading is the inspiration of man, the expansion of his views. The child must feel the smell of the book and the music of the whispering pages, because the child who reads is much nicer, has a much better dictionary and can explain many processes and phenomena. Love for the book and reading must be constantly accelerated and developed. As the debate with these bill proposals coincides with the maintenance of the Book Fair in Belgrade, I am pleased that yesterday I saw many students visiting this particular book store and not just looking around, but also buying books to read. Somehow, which is very commendable, as if we've realized ourselves that without books and knowledge, we're like ourselves. As much technological innovation as it is necessary to contribute to some erroneous development, especially the student population. We have become somewhat dependent on modern technology, modern communication. Children began living in a virtual world where alcohol, drugs, violence, and crime of all forms are dominant on social networks and TV channels. It's all unfortunately a reflection of society, and school, and family. Children are witnesses of everything that happens in society, so violence and hooliganism appear as an attempt to experience youth in one wrong way. One of his colleagues yesterday said that according to UNICEF, 2/3 of children in Serbia were exposed to some form of peer violence. Peer violence is present in all its forms, and victims of violence can be all. The most common form of violence in schools, i.e. in this population, is verbal violence, such as insult, mockery, ridicule, calling names. There is also sexual violence, illicit or unwanted touching, coercion to sexual acts and extortion of sexual services. It's not negligible and so-called. digital violence, so that I can baptize it – violence of a new age, but the most brutal and most drastic form of violence is physical violence. We're witnessing organized fights, beatings, destroying things, hijacking objects like ducks, cell phones, watches, etc. In the hurry of our premature Europeans to get as soon as possible EU membership and here in these laws, we have, since the adoption of these laws in 2010, several amendments and additions resulting from this effort. We have here at preschool education team to provide additional support to the child in preschool, and the team consists of an educator, listen now, expert associate, associate, parent and other legal counsel, etc. You have listed on page 32 of Article 42, I will read it literally to compare - The work of an expert associate can perform persons with adequate higher education in second-degree studies, master of academic studies, specialist academic studies or master of vocational studies, or basic studies for at least four years under the rules governing higher education until 10 September 2005 in accordance with the law. Mr. Minister, look now at page 33 of the 45th absolutely and absolutely the same conditions and qualifications for both the associate and the expert associate. Then why do they need each other? It's like on one football team you have a centrifugal position and now you're adding more central attackers. This reminds me of one case from our recent political practice, when then our owners in countries where we have legal embassies and ambassadors, and we know what their role is, sent so-called hundreds of their economic ambassadors, whose effect was more than catastrophic, until someone finally realized they were called off. As regards the law on dual education, as a special form of functional education, which creates and educates personnel for labour market needs, I would absolutely disagree with this name dually. I still have "dual", "singular", "plural" as Latin words. Dual in Latin means double. He doesn't even know the godfather who baptized this law with this name is happy about this solution. It might be a better solution – work education, practical education, work education, I don't know, I don't want to talk about it. If it did not turn out that our hatred is the greatest for this law of purely termological character, this education can only be brought to life in a country of strong and developed economies, such as Serbia is not at this point obviously not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23254	Thank you, Mr. Boyzich. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23255	Let me give you an explanation of why an associate and why an expert associate is involved, it's a matter of professional associates psychologists and educators and those who are really connected to the profession, and fellows of a type, say, a social worker has no connotation, there's a small difference. I agree with you, maybe it's not the happiest expression in the dual, it was called cooperative, maybe this education with work. I really don't have any idea whether it might be the best expression, but it's gotten a little bit too old, as well as a cauldon called toothpaste or razor blade. When it comes to the library, we have worked as a ministry to budget after 25 years and this year and last year and to send about 150 million dinars to school libraries in two years. That's how we significantly restored that resource. Also, physical education and free activities have increased this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23256	Thank you, Minister. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here's a colleague of Zukorlic's.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23257	Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning, I want to strongly condemn the fascisoid hate statements we heard today by Bosko Obradovic, which denies the Bosniak people and his right to have his Bosnian language. Hatred and evil, hate is what upsets those who hate each other, but at the end of the day the hater burns. We, the People's MPs of the Bosniak Democratic Community, will not return to this kind of hate speech in the same way. On the contrary, we will remain consistent policies of reconciliation, dialogue, respect for others, whether they are majority or minority. We'll try to promote such a culture. What I expect in the future is not only to be Members of the Bosniak Democratic Community who will react in such a situation, because such hate spills cause great harm to the National Assembly, as well as to the people from whom such individuals come. What makes me happy is that these statements and policies like this are completely in the minority and, hopefully, they will never be able to be in the majority. As for dual education, I think it is necessary to pay attention to the fact that this is another offer that enriches education in this country and that it is not a programme or law that addresses issues be or not be for education. Of course you're expecting huge advantages, just because we have a newspaper. There are certain weaknesses, the weakness of this law and this programme is reflected in the fact that we have an economy which is a question of what capacity it is and whether it will be able to accompany this education. So I would think again about the penalties provided for businesses where practical teaching will take place, because I am afraid that we can get into a situation where we do not have enough business operators who want to participate in dual education. Certainly, the risk of this law is how to find an environment between interest and economy on the one hand and on the other hand ethical norms and preservations and children from possible abuses. Therefore, more important than the law will be the implementation of the law, the quality of supervision and everything that awaits us, which should be placed on a special focus. What is special, the important quality of this law is actually the career treatment of this topic, which seems to me today was not enough of a topic, is a novelty, because in fact through this aspect of the application of this law we will be able to offer significant opportunities to these students, but even more important to the unions is that we will be able to engage them through a significant number of people who are at risk of losing their jobs because of their various obligations to the network of schools and the obligation to let some people go from work, we will be able to engage them through career monitoring of this aspect of teaching. So, we're about to be implemented, waiting for what is always the most important in quality. Laws aren't hard to adopt. Anyway, the laws are less good. Even when we notice some shortcomings we have the opportunity to correct, but the main problem is in implementation, the main problem is in people, the main problem is in directors, in their professional and ethnic quality, the main problem is in professors, and there we should actually focus on the entire system or on the position of parliament and the position of the ministry, i.e. government and all other entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23258	Thank you, colleague Zukorlic. Right on line, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23259	Thank you, Chairman. I really don't understand why Mufti Muamer Zukorlic was upset when I just said a few basic things, which I suppose most people who hold to their national and state dignity think, and so does this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When someone talks about Sandzak, we all have to get up and say that such a term is unacceptable in Serbia and cannot exist. It's an occupation term from the time of the Turkish Empire, from a time that remains only by evil remembered in the Serbian people and Serbian history. According to our current territorial organization, there is no Sandzak, but the Raski administrative district, that's the first thing. As far as language is concerned, I don't think I speak hate language, but I speak the language of linguistic and scientific facts that Bosnian or Bosniak, however, the language does not exist, but it is only one version of the Serbian language, as are Croatian and Montenegrin. I have also cited this in a specific case of the absence of American, Australian, or similar languages, but it is already the English language. It's the same case with an Austrian language that doesn't exist, but it's only a German language variant. So these are linguistic scientific facts and they can't be increased. I understand that someone wants to invent a political nation and create from that position a position for themselves and for their politics, but that's another question. I understand that Mufti Zukorlic made a deal with the current government, that he made a deal with Alexander Vukic, but from his very close contacts with many Muslim friends in the Rasko area, I know that they do not support Alexander Vukic. As the Court's relationship with other religions and nations is best seen from the assembly declaration that we have proposed to honor all non-Serb nationalities who gave their lives to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23260	Thank you. Muamer Zukorlic, here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23261	I belong to culture and I was brought up so that when I meet someone, he tells me his name and wants me to speak to him. Whether I like it or not, but in a world where the basic rules of culture are respected, each one identifies himself and everything beyond that is rudeness, and in our case here is disrespect for the Constitution and the law, which has clearly defined this issue. Mr. Obradovic can conduct academic debates, I'm not sure he's capable of it, if he wants to, but not in parliament and in a way that really implies hatred, because the negation of a nation, the negation of one language, is actually an outcry of hatred, disrespect of a nation, and is causing harassment of that people. It is something that should be a problem and the chairmanship of this House, which should not simply be allowed, in this way, to deny one people, one community, one nation, and especially that the Constitution is explicit and that the laws that defined the topic of language and national declaration are very, very clear. Therefore, I may not like anything in someone's culture, some notion, it may come from an Ottoman vaccine, from a German, Austrian or Roman, but to say that the question to which every patriot needs is, then said most, I'm sure it's not most, and that's what makes me happy. That's what brought me after being a Mufti for 23 years, to be a folk MP, believing and here I assure myself, that in this house most are not such, but that there can be dialogue, mutual respect and that Serbia should be a country of diversity and it should be its wealth, not its lack.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23262	Thank you. I think you've offended no one, so it's okay, you have as much as any MP right to say what you want in Parliament. The word has Vladimir Orlic, right on line. Here you go. (Bosko Obradovic: What is this about? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23263	He knows exactly what this is about. It's about the unacceptable mention of the president of the SNS, the president of the state, and the talk of some kind of deal. So, more than clearly, the convincing majority of Serbian citizens are more than clear. They have already shown and will show again that you do not worry, that what Alexander Vukic is doing is a good interest in the citizens of this country, is a serious effort that results, that something positive is happening here. There's no room to mention any deals. On the other hand, it's totally unacceptable that any of the deals here are spoken of by the one who's always been the only person on the dealings who's ever existed both politically and in any way. Among other things, I mean direct deals with tycoon Dragan Gilas, the tycoon of the yellow company that formed him when he needed him as a pedestrian, who gave him both money and made propaganda materials, when he thought he could be useful to him. I mean, the deals, if he wants us to step back a little bit, which he had with other knowledge of the former DOS, for example. The ones who financed it. Direct donations, by which was the famous line 4-8-1, 2009, by one ministry, in 2008, by the second ministry, in 2008. All direct donations to that man who's somehow concerned about politics, deals and parties, and we know why he's worried about these parties. These donations and those deals come back, if we're going a little further, as far as DOS was concerned, there were so many of his deals with them. And in 2004, which we mentioned today, and in direct payments by the public company, on the party line, then the DSS, but is allergic to parties, because as a good Ljotic, he must think all the worst about democracy, parliamentaryism and parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23264	Thank you. (Bosko Obradovic: Replica. We're closing a circle of replicas, everyone said what they had. Let's move on. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a folk emissary Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23265	Thank you. Mr. Sarčević, many bad decisions have been made through the history of our people under the password "in the name of children", "in the name of future generations", and the truth is often quite the opposite. That's why it's a huge responsibility for you, and I think you're defending the defenseless. In interpreting this dual education law, you said that construction and other activities cry out for labour. I'm asking you, what kind of construction Mr. Charcevic? The one that's been devastated for years, the one that's been completely destroyed, the one that works for other firms as subcontractors? You expect children of 14, 15 to raise this new construction from the dead, to be a vase in their own country? That's where you give them the future, to work as subcontractors all their lives? You can write at the Faculty of Civil Engineering and Architecture because we didn't make it to higher education, a college for future subcontractors. It's the future of construction. Do you communicate with each other with the ministries? Why didn't they tell you what needs in construction were real in other economic activities? Why did you allow, is this a lie, to the Anti-Corruption Agency to give a negative opinion under this law on excessive interference of the Chamber of Commerce in Education? What about the Union of Employers and their negative opinion? What about the unions? Do you think this is how this is supposed to go, and do you think it'll give you new generations, and will you be able to live with it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23266	Thank you, colleague Pavlovic. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Bosko Obradović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23267	Mr. Chairman, I can understand your obligation to hold a session in accordance with the ruling majority, as you come from it, but you have violated Rules 1 and 2 of this Rules of Procedure, because in the presentation of an authorised representative of the SNS, on several occasions, there has been talk of a speaker who spoke before him, and this is me... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23268	Col. Obradovic, the speech has just ended, Col. Pavlovic, please point to my violation of the Rules of Procedure after... (Bosko Obradovic: I've asked for it before. No, you didn't ask, she got the word. You have no right to do so, I can only take away your time from your parliamentary group. You were all entitled to a replica, both Mr. Zukorlic and Mr. Orlic and you. I think I've been very correct to you. Do not abuse the pay phone or the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. Let's move on. The word has a national emissary, Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23269	Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't know I was up so fast. I'll just say a few sentences, because essentially although this debate has been going on for a long time, we haven't heard the right reasons why opposition MPs don't want to support this law. We haven't heard anything essentially, which is not good in the aspirations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister of Education to reform our education system and to bring it into line with the needs of the economy and enable people, not children, as you say it and it is persuasively, very ugly, so I am convinced that this message that we have heard today, children, spoken in a dilapidated tone of all those who have tried to criticise the law, try to qualify for certain occupations, that they are doing something in life and that a chance is opened to them, of course, and that later, if they want to, and not if they want to do so others who are crying over their fate today, end up some more schools, colleges. For the first time today, I heard MPs say that someone who is a worker, that someone who learns that, as they said, "clemas are connecting or doing something", they are probably disgusted by what all workers could learn and work, later graduates from college and become academic citizens. I've never heard of, in any parliament of the world, especially in the former Yugoslavia or today, that someone said that the worker doesn't have enough intellectual skills to finish later and college. We could hear that today as the biggest offense to the bill. I guess nobody was really interested in reading this law and seriously talking about what we might add to dual education. What else did we hear in the discussion today? That the Swiss are wrong, that the Germans are wrong, that the Austrians are wrong, that the Slovenes are wrong and that, again, something terrifying, dangerous, the thesis that it was intended only for migrants or pirates. I really felt uncomfortable when I heard such discussions today, and they came from MPs who spoke out of the opposition's ranks. Of course, no one has the imagination of MPs who support the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to compare the situation of migrants and Gustrabiters with people who have been abused in Switzerland, Germany, Slovenia and Austria, that these peoples, these countries have remembered how to abuse foreigners who are coming. I was just expecting today that an MP who I don't think is here right now came out a moment ago, as soon as you don't give him the replica, he comes out and holds a press conference, which is his right, but he might as well sit back and listen. We can do something a little bit, not just talk about the camera, but exchange those opinions, I just expected him to get up at the end and tell the party out. Or "auslander raus", as the far rightists in those countries he cited as an example, but good. What else were the main objections? After all, when someone is speaking so persuasively about the possibility of a young man or his family deciding to refer him to a trade, to finish some practice, to earn perhaps a dinar through schooling, he is actually talking about the character of the MPs who spoke about it this afternoon. I looked at them a little bit, so maybe it's easy, you come in expensive suits, the most expensive tie, you have prestigious watches, you go to Maldives, you fly, you winter, I don't know anymore, you park cars right next to the tables of Belgrade cafes where you sit, and of course you can't understand ordinary people. You can't understand a man who wants his child to end up with something, let's just say, in a simple dictionary, maybe people don't understand what dual education means, end up with a trade where they have bread in their hands, and maybe later on in their decision to study. Not everyone's parents are very wealthy to make sure you go abroad to study, to finish prestigious schools, to get scholarships, or to make it possible for parents themselves to do so, probably, in the case of so-called. Belgrade's elite, which today has taught us all lessons about how this law allows Serbian children to become slaves. It is indeed the most morbid thing that I could hear today, that someone can even blame Minister Sarcevic for working for decades with children, that some children determine in advance that they will be someone's slaves. Whose slaves, at the Fiat factory, who, just today, spoke about this proposal for a dual education bill, opened up? Then they say, there goes the next thesis that's morbid again and that can't seduce anyone here, that they don't accidentally vote for this law, they say, and they seem to be practicing that they keep saying it's a cheap workforce. What does cheap labour mean? That again, probably from their angle of looking, that's something that's underneath... How much, will you help me, dear colleagues, what is the salary, say, of the adviser to the Director General of the Post Office of Serbia? (Alexander Martinovic: About 150,000.) About 150,000 dinars, there you go. One of the MPs who spoke today about cheap labour and children's slaves is receiving 150,000 dinars as adviser to the general director of "Post-Serbia" and otherwise is in opposition, that in the dictatorial regime, otherwise he is in opposition. If I were in opposition with some dictator, I'd pay him back, I'd say - I won't work for the dictatorial regime. So I totally understand them. The people in Serbia, the parents of children, will certainly be the Rules of Procedure, who want their children to complete their trades, who want their children to dress for jobs they can find in Serbia, 10, 15 thousand is many, very much, and those who have expensive watches, expensive suits, jeeps, fly to the Maldives, have a minimum salary of 150,000 dinars in the dictatorial regime, that's all for underestimating them. It's all about underestimation, then it's easy for them, with the ease of unbearable existence and policy-making in one dictatorial regime, as they say, to come here, to stop at work, talk about dual education in a way -- that Alexander Vukic's regime prepares children for slaves, they will be a cheap workforce in Serbia, and none of them wanted to look in the mirror and say – how many factories were closed in 2000, how many privatisations were carried out in our country, how many workers were fired at their time when the workforce was expensive, when it wasn't cheap, and when children were suddenly in their education reform could enroll everyone and become managers, managers for everything and everything. There, that was their reform of education. Now, let me explain, where did all of their managers who from 2000 to 2012 finish some of those schools they were opening, where they're getting a job? Where exactly do they work? How much are their salaries? How many astronomical salaries are these chefs in cooking, the manager in painting, in sending beautiful views, the manager in hurting the Rules of Procedure? There, it was a reform of DS education, since they were all in the DS, it's not a problem, which they today regret and say something else, that young people are starting to leave Serbia right now that they've heard of dual education. Of course you do, with pleasure. [[Balsa Bozovic: Replica. I'm entitled to a replica because of the DS.]] Dual education, please let me speak, I know it's not pleasant, but I listened today as one of the slave owners and how the children will work cheaply. It's not pleasant, but you should listen to another way of thinking. My way of thinking is that I despise all that I've heard in the morning today, because it's dishonest because it's cynical because people who are too rich tell us because people who in the dictatorial regime don't disgust themselves to be advisors to the directors who are representatives of this government, because the heads of their parties until recently worked in Southport-SDPR were ministers, and today, and that's all in the dictatorial regime, without dual education. Well, let's give some other kids a chance, not just to your kids, not just to you, to find some chance in Serbia to do something, because they're poor because you ruined them. You ruined their parents, you ruined their future. I'm going to give you the names of the people who left this country after 2000, and they're back. In 2000, they ran away from the wars, from the sanctions, and came back. So in 2003 and 2004, they ran off with their heads, regardless of why you cheated on them, because you offered them hope on the streets in 2000 that something would change in Serbia. It's changed, but for you, it's better to become rich. It's the only thing that's changed. And now you're reading moral lessons!? Really, I had to respond and answer my word to say that you're underhanded, that you're hypocritical when you talk about protecting an ordinary little man and their children in this country. I'm sorry that the MP, not you, will end up with you, MP Vuk Jeremic, I don't know if he's there, there's in parliament, Alexic, so dim, and he hasn't read the last two points of the agenda at all, he doesn't care at all. I don't know which school he went to. Therefore, the Convention on Nuclear Safety and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Safety and Management of Exhausted Fuel and on the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management. But what did he use? It's kind of malignant to say it again -- here, Parliament Speaker is the chairman of our agency's board of directors, so she'll tell you something about it. No, I'm not going to tell him anything about it, even though I've essentially prepared myself, as I've been preparing recently for an international conference held in Vienna... (Zoran Krasic: What law is this? The last two points. I can tell you didn't read either. ... and held talks with the president of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Mr Yuki Aman, who asked me a question... (Balsa Bozovic: Are you irradiated? No, you're irradiated, that's what you're doing, so I had to run away here in the bench so it wouldn't go down on me, but this is a very serious topic. He asked me what we have in Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23270	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it. Don't complain to me later.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23271	This is a very important topic. I know they don't care, because this convention was supposed to be ratified in 2009, but they had much better things to do, they should have robbed, robbed and robbed Serbia, not ratified conventions, so we could be past the world, calling Serbia there, with all due respect to Gibuti, they call it, they say -- Serbia and Gibuti, what are you hiding? So, a respected colleague, who has no patience to work for more than 30 minutes how long his wait to get his word, I answer now, maybe someone will pass it on to him. Ask the foreign minister, his President Vuk Jeremic, what it says in these conventions, in these international conventions, he will explain it to him because he is a great expert in diplomacy, and let him explain why we haven't had time, or those since 2009, to ratify these conventions. Now, that's why I had to be the chairman of the board of directors and get my authority back in Vienna so that they wouldn't blush at international conferences anymore, I would agree with the Government of the Republic of Serbia... It's forbidden, by the way, to photograph and paint. This is untasteful what you're doing. This is primitive, first of all. This is primitive in parliament. You can't take pictures of me and film me if I don't approve. Don't do it in parliament, it's the bottom of life. That's the bottom!
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23272	I ask the MPs not to earn, to behave politely and to allow MPs Maja Gojkovic to finish her speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23273	Please, Chairman, do not let them photograph here and film it, it is not done in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. That really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23274	I couldn't have expected that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23275	There is this in the Book, and this is what we were warned of the other day. So, I don't want to get into a situation anymore, or me or anyone else, to blush because of the lack of the Democratic Party and that someone at international meetings is calling us out to why we didn't do something and ratified. I thank the Government of the Republic of Serbia for listening to what I had to pass on to them from Director Aman, and I will be happy to write a letter that this time as Parliament of the Republic of Serbia we have managed to ratify this, finally, perhaps among the last countries in the world, but certainly the last in the region and last in Europe, which is a shame, but not a shame on us, but a disgrace on you when you say this – that the President will tell us something about this and you will come out. No, Vuk Jeremic will say something, why did he fly and travel around the world and spend the money of these children's parents who would work as slaves, as you say, have no time after something and send it to parliament to ratify? In any case, MPs who support the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia, particularly Minister Sarcevic, who has shown great effort in this autumn's session, have proposed a larger set of laws that should make order and reform the education system in Serbia, will vote in favour of these draft laws. We'll listen to colleagues who have amendments, maybe there's something serious to talk about. Fortunately, no amendments can be given to conventions, so they won't be able to endanger us here, nor can the security of fuel-exhausted management, that's probably what Vuk Jeremic spent everything on the plane, or threaten our nuclear security, because who knows what we could hear here after the amendment and see. Serbian citizens certainly shouldn't fear for the fate of their children, because children have a chance to learn something by this law, the same way that my generation, older and slightly younger learnt to work and we didn't run away from it. I'm not ashamed that I went to high school, and I learned to type with the basics of some legal system, so I have a trade in these hands, and I'm not ashamed. After I finished law school, it's thanks to my parents and some of my ambitions. In any case, Minister, you have our great support and I'm sorry that you have to sit here, and you have absolutely nothing to discuss, because we haven't actually heard anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23276	Thank you, colleague Gojkovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23277	Thank you, Chairman. I believe that you have injured Article 107 and allowed the previous speaker to violate not only this House's dignity, but mine and my colleagues, by allowing it to accuse us of hypocrisy, idolatry, hatred and all sorts of things, us opposition MPs, although we are not here to express love for it, nor for the Serbian Progressive Party, nor for the minister, nor for the laws, but to discuss it seriously. You violated article 107 and threatened my dignity, and then when you let her talk here for the second time about alleged empathy towards migrants, even though she herself was the feather of the party that drove our Croats out of... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23278	My colleague Tepic, I can understand that you have advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. (Marinika Tepic: Why did you interrupt me? I have to explain. ) In doing so, these terms used by Mrs Gojkovic are absolutely normal and acceptable. I don't want to mention now what's being used on this side, but what you just said has nothing to do with this debate, and it's not right, and I'm not going to allow such insult to either the president of the Assembly or any of the MPs and his dignity. Thank you. The right to replica has Balša Bozovic, for mentioning.. I apologize to my colleague Bozovic, you will have to wait, Maja Gojkovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23279	Article 104, I guess, when someone insults me, I have the right to answer. Maybe I don't. It's not a problem. So, you gave one big, co-worker, Tepic Marinika, one big lie and let it go to her burden. I have members of national minorities in my family. And, you know what, when someone tells you that you were banishing Croats or someone that I was banishing from Vojvodina, it might prove itself. It is no problem at all, it does not affect me because the MP or MP said it, I apologize that, MP Ms. Marinika Tepic, who may also have to explain to the Croats in Vojvodina not only to the Serbs how much they cost the banana shorts she financed while she was the provincial secretary. I think 10 million dinars. He doesn't have to explain it to the Serbs, so let the Croats know.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23280	Thank you. He has a word, the replica Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23281	I thank the chairman. I can say...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23282	I apologize to my colleague Bozovic again. Please, Nemanja Sarovic reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm sorry, I haven't seen a colleague of Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23283	Mr Marinkovic, you have injured Article 27, which gives you not only the right but also the obligation while you are chairman, to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. In our assembly the last few days, something is going on that is extremely inappropriate, and that is the fact that someone who needs to chair, which is above all Maja Gojkovic, instead of sitting in the chair and teaching the chairman how he will lead. And, secondly, it does not go to someone who is the president of the National Assembly to address MPs from other parties in this way. It is humiliating that the president of the National Assembly says to the minister that she is sorry that he is sitting there, and nothing clever or essential could hear. I don't know if you've heard that one MP was told he was irradiated. So these are the insults you shouldn't have gone through. And as for Ms. Marinika Tepic, she does not stop spreading hate, spreading hate, spreading lies about the Serbian people and legitimate representatives of Serbian citizens. I'm not gonna ask you to punish her, because I'm generally against punishment always, but letting such lies come out is totally unheard of. So you can take away her word and you have to do it every time, because that kind of behavior really doesn't make any sense. What's next? Should Mrs. Marinika Tepic now charge someone with murder? This guy was exorcising, killing, giving evidence. If he has any evidence, he can go out with them, if he no longer lies and deceives the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23284	Thank you. For the sake of the public, therefore, and the truth, first of all, I must tell you that the qualification of radiation was referred first to Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, and perhaps I was wrong not to give a warning at the time. Since I see everything from here, and I hear it well, but because of the tolerance and the course of the session that we're all fighting to be normal and decent, I didn't do it. And, second, article 100 clearly states who has the right to speak at the National Assembly session. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? Yes, you do. Thank you. Balša Bozovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23285	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must admit that I was greatly entertained by Mrs. Maja Gojkovic's discussion, as the first among the equals in this home that she had all along, I am free to say one kind of show, when it comes to, above all, the argument of the opposition to the draft law on dual education. Speaking of evidence, the Croats have been mentioned, a few words have been mentioned. Speaking of evidence, I can only say that there is a verdict as evidence of the Supreme Cassation Court, that verdict was passed in 2013, which says that Mrs. Maja Gojkovic damaged the budget of Novi Sad and the City of Novi Sad. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23286	My colleague Bozovic, I absolutely don't allow this. (Balsa Bozovic: No, I have the right to speak. You had the right to replicate. It's mentioned DS, don't ask for our relations and correctness to come into a situation to give a warning. (Balsa Bozovic: Can I finish? Come on, let's move on. Muamer Bacevac has the right to breach the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23287	Dear President, please, you have injured Article 103. Please do not allow the opposition to abuse minority rights in this Assembly for their personal promotion of interest. All of God's day we've been listening here to Bosko Obradovic who spins, invents a theme, and today we're talking about dual education. There is no more important topic for production in areas where Bosniaks, Hungarians, Slovaks live than for their children to be educated in quality. The fictional topics of the exercise and insult virtually entire nations. This is outrageous. Please do not allow any opposition policy to be conducted here through the interest of minorities. Here, now we listen here, mention the Hungarians, mention the Croats. All minorities are the engine of reforms in this country. Bosniaks as well as Serbs do not want to return to conflict situations. We want to be the engine of European integration. We want to change this society for the better. Please don't let Bosca Obradovic act here as a representative of Serbian interests for which he is not at all, the smallest patriot in this assembly is him, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23288	Thank you. Of course we won't allow any way to discriminate against any nation, national minorities. Let's move on with the debate. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23289	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and associates, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in today's principle debate we have a set of very important draft laws that we will discuss in the coming days, and I am very pleased to talk again about proposals from education not only that this is a very important topic for our country but also because this ministry that has been very determined and responsible for these issues has worked hard and has come forward with a lot of proposals from the MPs. I must say, it was my honor to return this discussion to the agenda, that is. Perhaps the esteemed chairman was wiser to give you one suggestion to tell the opposition that there was no more transmission, so maybe we could move faster on to the speaker list. As far as the Preschool Education and Education Act is concerned. This law was passed seven years ago, and amendments and additions were passed several times in that period. Also, this year, we have again passed the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which has come into force and it is quite logical that we have a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education, because on the one hand there is a need to comply with the provisions of the new law, but on the other hand there is also a need to improve the availability and quality of preschool education and education itself. This is also the reason why we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, which is to comply with new provisions, namely the new Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, and on the other hand some controversial situations have arisen in the practical application of this law, and a new law on amendments and additions to that law will come to an end. As regards this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on secondary education and education, it will be more specifically arranged to enroll students in high school, grade students, reward students for work, too. Please, Chairman, introduce a little order so I can continue. Thank you. Therefore, as regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on secondary education and education, it will be more specifically arranged to enroll students in high school, grading and rewarding students for greater effort. Especially important is that segment that will refer to students from sensitive social groups, such as Roma children, such as children from poor families, and in particular in the end I would also mention the introduction of dual education. We've heard a lot today about this dual education, we've heard a lot of criticism about dual education. However, dual education is what is currently one of the newspapers and what is most needed by our country, which will connect economy and education. What I would now point out is, in fact, these positive effects of the law, which, by applying the law when adopted, will feel practically in our entire society, which will primarily refer to students and employees of these institutions, to the institutions themselves, but will also apply to parents and ultimately to the economy and entrepreneurship. For students, this will mean more quality education and all necessary support, of course better evaluation, better rewarding students and involving children from sensitive social groups. For employees, it will mean better working conditions. However, some newspapers will be held there, such as different seminars, symposiums and the like. For parents, this will, of course, mean a better education for their children, but the next day after schooling will mean more employment for their children. For institutions it will mean greater autonomy, but it will also mean greater responsibility. In the end, we came to the economy and entrepreneurship, where it will have a particularly big impact on this dual education and the integration of economy and education will at the very least achieve a double benefit. It is on the one hand more employment, on the other hand more trained personnel, which are practically the most needed in our economy at the moment to develop properly. The importance of these draft laws is seen both in the accession and in the EU accession process. Chapter 26 includes, among other things, the area of education. Only the functioning of the EU is set up so that the Union itself practically encourages EU member states, precisely in this area, while EU member states co-operate on the content of teaching, education and vocational training systems and, above all, through exchange of experiences, but also through exchange of legislative regulations, which is very important. Practically, by passing these laws and proposing such acts, we are moving faster and faster towards joining the EU, and one day we can say that we will follow EU members in step. In economically developed EU countries, this human capital, i.e. human resources, is recognised, which is very important for the economic development of these countries, and its quality depends precisely on good education. So Serbia also aims to have a developed knowledge-based economy, which is capable of sustainable economic growth, with greater employment opportunities, better social status of people, better jobs. All of this depends on good education and education. I would stress only that there is an EU support agreement signed with our country, and that is the first agreement signed with one of the Western Balkan countries. It is just another sign that our country is on a good path to development, in general, in the field of education, but also on a good path to the EU accession process. The details of the provisions contained in these proposals would leave for discussion in particulars where, hopefully, we will discuss the amendments in a constructive way. Now I would only take the opportunity to invite my fellow Members and fellow MPs to support these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23290	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23291	The Honorable President, the Honorable Mr. Minister with Associates, the Honorable and esteemed fellow Members of the People, we very often face the story of business people, that it is very difficult to find qualified labour, that very difficult to find good and formed professionals, competent, to start working immediately, i.e. with a certain kind of work. The experiments carried out in our education system, beginning in 2000, have led us to have an army of completed schoolboys, who are not trained to work, i.e. to start working immediately and who are mostly unemployed, because no employer has any economic interest in hiring a worker who is not practically trained to work on a particular job, and many employers do not want to invest time, resources and resources in post-training workers for the job, and we are aware that we need both we need welders and weavers and carpenters and various repairers and carpenters and army and army and electric installers and lockers and steam heaters, builders, etc. The production flows in Serbia today are very dynamic thanks to this and the previous government of the Republic of Serbia and our President, Aleksandr Vukic, so that the economy puts before us the task of enabling it to have easier and faster access to qualified personnel who will be able to find employment and provide their existence after schooling, as soon as possible. We wanted to admit it, or not, but the fact is that industrial production in Serbia has been growing for the past few years and that many companies and businesses are opening up, which have a constant need for qualified workers of different profiles, but unfortunately, reality is sometimes such that such profiles on the labour market do not exist or are difficult to find. We do open factories, unlike the opposition that shut down factories. I'm talking about the city of Nis. At the time of their government, giants such as the Machine Industry, the Electronic Industry, the Yazrabac plant, the Niteks textile industry, the Vulcan and many other companies were closed. So people who work were able to stay on the street, without any existence, and it's really scandalous and extremely immoral to give us a sermon on our children to keep the people who brought those children's parents in that position. Just keep them quiet and cover their ears. I would further like to say that the situation in our school system, especially in secondary vocational schools, has so far been mainly about theorizing and forsaking theoretical objects, and where there is a professional practice, it is mainly done in busy school workshops, minimum capacities and with props and tools, which are more for museum configuration than for future workers' shoes. Such an education system has led, for example, to speak specifically for Nis to workers in the textile industry, mostly cosmetics, legal bureaucrats, assistants, couriers, chefs and so on, because there are no qualified textile workers in the labour market. So we come into a paradoxical situation, young people need jobs, employers need competent workers, but qualified workers are practically out of work. The encouraging thing is that the development of industrial production will increase exponentially year by year, but we need to provide adequately trained personnel who will be able to work, contribute and provide themselves with existence and income within the optimal limits of living standards. The proposed law on dual education, which I will, of course, support, as well as my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary club, will be a turning point in the labour market. Students will be able to meet and get acquainted with the future business environment, as well as gradually through the work of a future employer to travel their way after schooling, whether by working in the profession or by starting their own private business. Most of us recognize this kind of practice from some of the previous times when high school students spent half of their classes in factory facilities and industrial centres and other manufacturing workshops, professionally education and guidance and practical learning to work. It was these personnel who deserved that the last 20 years were adorned by the epithet that Serbia possessed a highly trained professional workforce. Unfortunately, experimenting in education over the past two decades has led to the fact that the professional workforce slowly retires, and that we have a lot of unemployed young people who lack practical knowledge, professional guidance, as well as the skills themselves. So I'm really going to support this law and all the education laws that are on today's agenda, because they really represent the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23292	Thank you. The word is made by MP Balša Bozovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23293	Thank you. I'm advertising Article 255. It is the public work of the National Assembly, and I ask you to inform the MPs whether there is a direct transmission and whether we are in direct transmission or not. Why didn't you, if we weren't in direct transmission, inform the MPs that the direct transmission was interrupted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23294	Thank you. We'll check and inform the People's Messengers. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23295	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located next to Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, it's no problem if there's no transmission. It's important to know what I'm going to say and what my colleagues said before me. Dear Minister, I have real confidence in you, because your knowledge and experience and your bill proposals really give our children the opportunity, first of all in preschool education, to give our children the opportunity, and you yourself said that they will have after the adoption of this treaty loan, that they will have the possibility that any local self-government can upgrade the annexes of certain objects, where they will have the opportunity to ensure the arrival of a larger number of children who do not now have the possibility because of their capacity. On the other hand, distinguished ministers, you have told you several times, and I trust you, that in the coming period, you will ensure that the salaries paid by pre-school institutions will be secured from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's very good for local self-government, for all of us who come from these small municipalities, because that's going to make it easier for us to provide other things for those kids. As for the Law on Fundamental Education, I can say, I just heard a series of things about how it's not working in our Serbia, how it's not investing in education, in education, in school infrastructure. I can tell you that the complete reconstruction of the elementary school that was done in the '60s, '70s was completed in Srlig back a few months. The school was done in such a way that it is the most beautiful thing when someone comes to Svreljjeg from Književec, they will see some beauty, and this is our primary school that can be an example of everything that our government and our president of Serbia and office are doing in southeastern Serbia. One more thing that is very important, and I will support, normally, all these bill proposals that you have proposed, and the other members of our government, because I think these are laws that give us the opportunity to move forward, that our Serbia is moving forward. Because we're witnessing that we have to work, that by example we have to show that our children have to work. We can't all be teachers, doctors, teachers, scientists. Someone has to be both a plumber and a vet, like me, and I'm not ashamed of that. We work, I've worked, and I want my children and our children to have the opportunity to acquire certain knowledge through dual education with which they can provide their existence tomorrow. It's easy, there's a lot of schools that are kind of good schools, but there's no work. For example, with us in Srlig, I speak from my example, we now have a lot of open companies and jobs in the textile industry, but we have a lot of old workers. These people who opened these textile companies want to rebuild now, to rejuvenate that workforce. That's why they asked for security and resources, to finance, to scholarship certain students, and now through this example of dual education, we're going to have the opportunity to finish it. I think this way of dual education is something that is very important to us who come from southeastern Serbia, because we will have the opportunity to provide a greater number of people, young children, that they will be able to provide their own knowledge and thus provide themselves with a job, and I know, I am sure and I am a witness to what is done in southeastern Serbia, because new jobs are being opened everywhere. I know that there will be a certain number of investors in our municipality who will be opening new jobs very soon. By dual education, by teaching children to work through the practical part and theoretical part, it is a great opportunity for us and for all those living in southeastern Serbia. A great opportunity for all of us is to invest in education. Once again, I can say that as a man, as a parent, as a Serbian host, I fully trust you, Minister, because I know that you have knowledge, you have experience, you have a good team, we also have our President, Mr. Vukic, who is making every effort to secure as much funds in southeastern Serbia as possible. Here, let's say, article 32 gives you the opportunity to...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23296	Thank you. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23297	All right. Once again, I will vote in favour of all these laws as a folk MP in front of the United Peasant Party because he trusts both you and our government and our President Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23298	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23299	Thank you. Dear ministers, respected co-workers of ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, we have four educational laws on the agenda today and several other international agreements. The key to these educational laws is the law on dual education, which is presented by the government as a crucial twist and a key move in reforming Serbian education. However, the reform domains of this law are very limited, because it applies only to the secondary education segment. Until the entire system is established, we can talk about a few thousand children who may be coming out of this secondary education subsystem. Unfortunately, these other laws, which are essentially on the agenda, do not bring about real, large and radical reforms of education. They work to a greater extent to comply with the roof law that we passed at the previous session, which is the Law on the Foundations of the Education System and are doing some technical corrections, such as excluding parent advice from pre-school institutions from the programme process, because they were able to participate in this, and now they will not. Some of the essential things here in our education we're skipping again. First of all, it's the safety of children in schools. I will remind you, the amendments we have given, which are under Alexa's law, to the Law on the Foundations of the Education System, so the amendments to Alexa's Law at the previous session have not passed, this time we assume that the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as far as none of Alexa's laws in the proposals of the Law of Education has been implemented. The safety of children in schools - we have drugs sold to children with fences of secondary and primary schools in Serbia; we have bookies; we have kiosks that sell alcoholic beverages without any restrictions on working time and age of children who can buy it. So it's true that we have deficiting personnel for some professional middle professions. In a country with the best country in Europe, there's no one to drive a combine, that's correct. But also, most parents in that village don't want their children to stay in that village, and their whole lives are tied to that combination, and they spend their lives in the country, in poverty, because they know it's the fate of which poverty is guaranteed. You mention Slovenian workers in dual education, but you don't say how much money those workers in that Slovenia make. In Serbia, 61% of employees earn earnings below 41.800 dinars. This is the data of the Republic Statistics Office. This is a crime of national proportions – 61% of employees earn below 41,000 dinars. If the data is incorrect, then you haven't contained the gray economy at all. Because if you claim that these salaries are higher, then they're in the gray zone. I repeat, this is the data of the Republic Statistics Office. Over 70,000 makes only 9%. What's 70,000? Nothing. What's below $40,000? Less than nothing. Shameful profit. To talk about dual education, with such educational profiles that we are talking about, will change the standard of living of citizens because it will open up perspectives to them, is deeply incorrect to citizens who deserve more. It's the ideology of poverty where it's a shame to go to sea, because tomorrow you'll be the subject of the tabloid. Don't sell that to the citizens of Serbia. They can do better and deserve better. As you say, "Brown, harder and better." That's right. The law on dual education is contrary to the principles he has declared, which is the whole of life learning, equal opportunities for choice of professions and educational profiles, because students who enter the dual education system will permanently be bound by low-skilled and poorly paid jobs that are suited to past times. It's not even true that there are even these jobs. Only if the taxpayers subsidize them and pay them. Self-involved jobs are only available in information technologies, but they are not subject to this law. It is also incorrect that dual students will better start their own business. Because if business in Serbia were to move easily, we wouldn't have to subsidize it, and it would have to move easily and it would be sustainable. It is incorrect that this will stop young people from out of the country, because dual education produces workers for jobs that are already paid better abroad now. And these are the occupations that our people went abroad and in the '60s, when jobs abroad were opened just like that to educated staff, and to higher education more accessible. Today, unfortunately, in addition to the fact that people with lower qualifications and less-paid occupations will now go abroad, leave us and highly educated, because we have two things – white Schengen and Bologna. This opened the door to the market for developed countries with educational personnel of all profiles, and now we will encourage the development of lower-educated personnel, lower-skilled personnel who could always leave. The educational profiles of dual education are not the profiles of the 21st century knowledge society, and it has been declared an exposé of the prime minister that we will develop a knowledge society. We're talking, I'm reading from an explanation, about profiles of industrial mechanics, electrician, locksmith, welder, merchant and logistics technician and freighter. These are jobs that are robotized, computerized and converted into electronic business regimes in the 21st century. In the 21st century, ticket sellers lose their jobs because tickets are sold on the line and they have electronic form, like a bar code on a mobile phone screen. We are talking here that dual education is a key reform move for Serbian education. By budgeting these jobs we subsidize and favour, and I ask - what are we going to do when investors automate and robotize such jobs? So are we going to subsidize robots to drill holes, iron limes, and squeeze and protect bodies? The prescribed volume of learning through work. The way it's defined in the law threatens to really trap students at school, because it says that children can spend up to six hours a day on professional classes, learning through work, in companies up to five days a week. It explains, however, that the first year will be one day, the second year two, the third year two to three, etc., but there is no law. The law doesn't prescribe a desirable employer's profile. The employers' check will be carried out by a commission of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce in whose composition, for example, there is no representative of the Centre for Professional Education and Education of the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education. In terms of material and financial security, here's an example from my branch, to see what kind of labour market we leave children on, the labour market that we know at what level protects the labour rights of adults, experienced workers, older adults who can defend themselves. Insurance – children will be provided. You're an asshole. The workers aren't insured either. All employers in Serbia ask – at what minimum amounts can I secure workers in order to have as little cost as possible? You know how many minimum amounts are prescribed by law - zero dinars. You can secure a single dinar worker, in case of permanent disability, 100%, his family gets one dinar, and the employer has fulfilled his legal obligation, Baydeway - no criminal provisions. Well, that's the kind of job we leave kids to. Instead of doing other things. What's the key? Why haven't we tried, Minister, to make a revolutionary step, to try to write down history, to stay recorded as the minister of education who introduced children to free kindergartens? School year 2010, 2011, children 187,000, I believe there are fewer, we have a white plague, we all complain about it, but let's have that number, this is some framework bill, we don't have to go into details, but let's see if we have the courage to step up like that when we're making a budget, 187,000 children per 20 thousand dinars per month for 12 months -- 120 dinars per euro, that's 374 million euros. Let half of it already be subsidized, let it take half of it to move back, where do you find the money in the budget? At the APR, but not at Asamakum, there is a report on the losses of public enterprises in 2016 on APR. Let's say 160m euros need to get in the way, 167m euros in loss of public enterprises, 130m euros in losses to Jelizara Smederevo from the lifeguard era, 108m euros in loss of Serbia's Ways. Let me tell you something else, consult a fellow minister of business to make money, give kids free kindergartens. A billion euros is the amount of commitments under the activated guarantees approved by the Assembly on behalf of public enterprises, without those public undertakings being able to repay it. In the first half of this year, 100m euros were paid only from the mains according to these activated guarantees. So take a brave step forward, revise the budget and file the Budget Act and give the children free kindergartens. Stay away from dual education and mechanics and welders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23300	Thank you, colleague Guric. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23301	I don't know what that insurance company is called, but I know something else. For example, there are educational profiles for aviation that were normally filled first, dual, 10 of them there, reported seven candidates in each place. Salaries are in the ranks of regular professors at the university. Even the three-year interest in metal processing in Sevol is over 75 thousand at least. There are examples like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23302	Thank you. The word is made by MP Vladimir Djuric, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23303	Thank you. Minister, it's not about an insurance company called that. It's about regulations that regulate safety and health at work when it comes to insurance of employees from occupational illnesses and injuries sustained at work. The legislator, therefore, did not prescribe minimum amounts for which workers must be provided. Unlike, for example, the Transport Safety Act where these minimum amounts are prescribed, although they are prescribed at amounts far lower than in developed insurance markets and in developed societies. Anyway, let's get back to the employees. Minimum sums for the insurance of employees are not prescribed, so the employer can meet the legal obligation purely formally, buying a policy that will provide the worker with a single dinar in the event of death, at a cost of 0.01 dinar per worker. Believe me, I've been doing this job for over 20 years. The list's employers are asking to be offered the cheapest option by which workers would be provided. Thanks to such a written law, the answer is the cheapest option costs 0.01 dinar per worker, and it can be 10 times less. That's how it works. Why didn't we regulate that kind of thing on the labour market before we were kids, that little girl you mentioned wanting to be a welder... Okay, we saw the movie "Flashdens". It's a story across the thorns to the stars. The main hero of the film is at the beginning of the film in the turret, ensuing, and later enrolling in the ballet academy. Great. It's an American dream. Yeah, but why didn't we, first of all, adjust our labour market to kids, when we wanted to send those kids to the labour market? It is not disputed that dual education will come up with profiles that will make good profits, and it is not disputed that there are demand and open jobs for profiles, which will come out of a secondary education subsystem that he called dual. This is not controversial, but we cannot build on this reform of Serbian education, and we need it over the entire education system for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23304	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. You don't have time. I'm sorry, I'm just noticing. Gordana Komic please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23305	Thank you. Where did we get the idea of dual education? It's pretty important to know when discussing the law. A couple of experts from the Swiss Chamber of Commerce have missing funds for their needs. I understand that, it's human, totally. It doesn't matter what your receipts are, it's important to you how much costs are, and Swiss experts have high costs. Hence, the idea of a Swiss Chamber of Commerce conducting an experiment in Serbia along with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, with Swiss experts, which we will pay. It happens all the time in other sectors, but everything else that's told here about dual education is a pure lie, and it's a verifiable lie, because the same Swiss experts who lack money for another hundred acres on the Swiss lake, Lake Geneva or wherever they need it, I understand it all. They say it happened that way, and this is where my government comes in, so it's saying it didn't happen. It's a shame, and that any other sector is about education, not just education. Why do you present dual education to all of us as a great solution to Serbia's educated system? Who's that for, what's a great solution? Why don't we share the joy of finding salvation for 70,000 children? Why are you so angry? Why are you so angry? Why are you so unhappy? Why are we looking for so many guilty people? Here, why are we throwing so much? Why are you so nervous? You've found a great solution, what's with the anger, what's with the food? National MP Filipovic tells me – go outside.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23306	I beg your pardon, Members of the People's Parliament, that they do not receive Col. Comic. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23307	National MP, there is a famous predecessor who has spent his working life in parliaments, who said – you can only bring me out of here on bayonets. The second time you think of driving from the National Assembly of any MP, remember that there are some of us here only on the bayonets you can bring out and we know why we're here. But let's go back to my government telling me about dual education, that when we look for what Swiss experts tell us, in a short sentence – in one 15 years you will know whether there are results from dual education or not, in 15 years you will know whether there is an effect. Why is it that one thing called the apprentice and master, which was called the school of students in the economy, which was called "Stepe Shuvar" and the application of soap in shaving as an occupation, why do you raise it to the ideal of education in Serbia? It's a common shame. The only ones who benefit from it are Swiss experts. It's not good, it's not good together, and you're gonna do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23308	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Balša Bozovic, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23309	Chairman, Art. 107, Art. Article 108 109. So, you could say without any problem to the MP, I suppose his last name is Princeevic, so I heard, although I really saw him for the first time in parliament, that really what he said to Mrs Gordani Comic that I should say, not to say or repeat what exactly, but to get out of parliament, that he had to get a warning and that you as chairman at that point had to react. So, first of all, you don't talk to a lady and a woman like that. Obviously, there are too many bullies among the ruling majority, that is, their manner in politics and obviously in everyday life, but you had to sanction it. As you have today on the Administrative Board of 13 opposition MPs punished with over 250,000 dinars, you were able to make a note of what is primarily a lack of home education, and then everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23310	Thank you. I warned the MPs not to earn and of course I would never allow anyone to insult Mrs. Komic or anyone in the National Assembly. (Balsa Bozovic: Well, he swore and said Gordana Komic had something from parliament. I know, I can't do that. Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (Yes) Thank you. Zika Gojkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23311	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members, at first, I would like to ask you a few questions, so that you have time to answer, while I speak of something else. Does the ministry have the power to control law enforcement when we know that Bologna has not been applied to all universities and universities? How do you motivate an employee to take responsibility because it is not realistic that a student who attends the first and final year have the right to the same cash compensation and the number of hours of work during the week, because their contribution will not be the same? Is the ministry also planning dual studies as a logical follow-up to the circumstances? What do you do to improve teaching resources in high schools? How will the ministry have insight into the school program and practical work? What are the sanctions for students who, for example, would have been disorderly to come to practice? What do you do with old crafts, which unfortunately quickly die? As a representative of the Kingdom of Serbia's Renewal Movement, I am very pleased to say that in all Kingdoms, the priority of all priorities is education, and that kind of arrangement should be pursued by all of us. Dual education has been highly developed and perfected in the Scandinavian Kingdoms, which are the most socially organised in Europe, and therefore these amendments to the law are also embedded in the change of the overall system of values, for which the Movement is represented. Speaking of which, there's been a lot of talk here about both Germany and Scandinavian countries, but nobody seems to have told me exactly what it looks like, so here's a few sentences. In such countries, about 60% of school children, I think it would be interesting to hear even people from the SRS, and about 60% of school children are represented by dual education. The prerequisite for this way of education is that schools have signed contracts with companies where children would be educated, because of course each company costs, and not a little when looked at on an annual basis. The principle of work is that children are two, three days in school and two, three days in one of the companies or changing at a weekly level. Such a schooling takes mostly two to three and a half years. Half the schooling has one test in the Chamber of Commerce, since there were stories about the Chamber of Commerce, to see, of course, how far the children have progressed, and after schooling, they have a real exam. If some kids fail the exam, the contract can be extended for another six months, but of course it depends on the company, how happy it is with that student. Children also receive a certain amount of cash compensation for their work in the company, which is more than good motivation, and very interesting information, of course paid by the company, and the amount depends on the company to the firm. At the beginning of schooling, the amount is usually around 35% of net earnings, and in the last year it is between 70% and 80% of net earnings in regulated countries. This is basically the best form of education, because after schooling, such a student is fully prepared for his future profession, which already allows him as a young person a life and a future. However, it should also be said that even in one economic force, some economic forces, such as Germany, because of the economic crisis and, let me say, the smaller budgets that have been in recent years, not a small number of companies hesitate to open such educational places, and that may be one question to think about for our ministry. After this middle schooling, to call it so layishly, there is dual study on the same principles. I've had a chance to talk to our people who live abroad and whose children have been educated like this and I can safely say that most of them are satisfied with this kind of education. It is doubtless a wish, of course, to make secondary vocational education more attractive and flexible in the labour market, of course, I am talking about the proposal for this law. In parallel, it is aimed at strengthening the network of schools with employers, local self-government units, chambers of commerce and national employment services. The development and education and integration of the needs of the industry are key factors for the country's economy, and education and training must be flexible to meet market needs, of course, investment in professional education. Investment in vocational education, training will speed up the economic recovery of the country on which our government and resolution minister and ministry, to which I give full support and work. Dear colleagues, I believe the future expects us to restore dignity to the teacher and teacher, to restore faith in the importance of education, because we have heritage and tradition. For example, in my Sombor, there is an institution that educates teachers and educators, the basic actors of system education. The Faculty of Pedagogues in Somboro is a direct follower and gardener of Preparandia, the first Serbian teacher's school. It would be very good if those who are yelling would hear this, because maybe they could learn something even if they were proud of it. Last year was the 200th anniversary of the move from St. Andrea, and next year it will be 240 years since the establishment of Avram Mrazovic's standard, from which these institutions originated. Despite the good professional staff, which this institution has owned for years and the famous tradition I've already talked about, there is, unfortunately, a great uncertainty of how many students will be enrolled by the university year after year. That's why it's a very important system reform of education, but Mr. Minister, and systematic assistance to such institutions that have immeasurable significance for our people's history. I'd have a lot more to say, but my colleagues have mostly said, who will vote and support this law. I can only say that I can't help but get an impression in the debate that I had the chance to listen to today, where words like immoral law are used to produce slaves and slave owners, very difficult words that we hear almost every draft of the law. This comes, what is most interesting, the biggest paradox of those who parade to the Assembly in the most expensive suits, which are worth more than a few average salaries in Serbia. That you don't get me wrong, and I like to dress nice and I love nice suits, but what I hate about politics is hypocrisy, because that way you can't worry about young people, because as an opposition you're not obliged to oppose everything, especially what's obviously good for our young people, especially if it's the fact that these slaves and slave owners we have, the ones that came into the robbery privatisation that we've had to see since 2000. Another piece of information for those who are so quick to attack this bill, that during their rule and the people who led their parties, this ministry, our University of Belgrade, has for the first time fallen off the list of the 500 most qualitative universities in the world, and that says enough that they ran this ministry. In any case, this law is a good and a movement to rebuild the Kingdom of Serbia, whose representative will support it, because similar models exist in the kingdoms of Europe, which are also the most advanced countries, and those who are against it are only used to dealing with politics and not thinking well about the needs of the economy, but also about young people in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23312	Thank you, colleague Gojkovic. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23313	Your Honor, let me just give you some information that you asked me to do, first of all, about teaching. That takes a lot of investment. In the next season, we'll be working with four centres of excellence, where there'll be great big equipment but for the area units, so it covers, minors, a 70-mile radius. So we're going to do specialized centres where there's going to be much more quality training, starting with machines, 3D printers and everything that the centers need to contain. Of course, IT equipment is already available as standard and many sources have been provided for the occasion. About art crafts, more than 25 years ago, I remember that even then people were asking and renewing it, but in the System Law in the education of ZOSO, we put in a model of an institution that can now really design it completely differently, so if it's interested, it'll put it as one of the topics that we have with teams for medium professional. It's a very interesting subject anyway. When it comes to compensation for this work that children receive, or not work, but work education, it is different from the number of days spent from the first year to the final year. Data's a rock. When it comes to Swiss aid, it is grants, up to now over 2m euros, and Germany via GIZ over six and a half million. So I don't see that this isn't one friendly cooperation aid, these are the countries with which we have great bilateral agreements and relations. It's nice that such countries support us. The behavior of students in the workplace, where they will have practice, is the same as school, precise by school rules. So, the school is competent, the school inspection and all other deviations so that students express educational discipline measures, exclusion from school even, if necessary.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23314	Thank you, Minister. The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23315	Please, Mr. Minister, and I believe you will, to pay a little more attention to institutions outside of Belgrade. I have set only one example, and this is the Sombor Faculty, and I believe that such universities that have such a tradition deserve respect and a slightly greater sense of people in the Ministry, which, unfortunately, has not been the case so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23316	Thank you, fellow Gojkovic. The word is from MP Nikola Savic, the SRS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23317	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering a set of laws in the field of education. When it comes to education, it is free to say that it is an area as old as the human race. Everything man has created and promoted in his history can be thanked for his education. It is not surprising, therefore, that all the strongest, most developed countries in the world have become this, first of all, thanks to investing in education. I'm going to look back on what our education is like today, what we have today from education. Rather than conveying true knowledge, moral, and any other value, education has primarily become an instrument for their blinding. Permanent reforms of the education system have filled the country with a semi-editious element that represents the ideal material for all kinds of manipulations. What's being taught at school today? First of all, he learns how to write a biography, how to make a video presentation, and some other trivial things like that. As for fundamental sciences about physics, chemistry and other sciences, these things go completely superficially, literally these things don't touch. Kids are learning today that there's nothing to know. Everything they need to know is on the Google, but I still think, and most colleagues will agree with me, that the most valuable and the most significant Google we have in our head, otherwise all the other Googles are something else. An empty head is ideal for everything that can fit into it. Therefore, not only our education, but also education in general in the world, one general trend of education is that students, or those who are transferred to knowledge, are made one of the most common consumers who will be willing to accept everything that consumer society requires of them. The glorification of the rich way of life and the glorification of fast wealth humiliates human nature. We can't be sure that these are the things that contribute to the general trend and the development of a society. Kids today are not taught things that something that is sublime, that is what they need to know, but simply, children are told – go ahead and choose, choose what is more rewarding. What's that that makes it cheaper? We know. All that's cost-effective and all that's useful at first sight is not long-term, not to mention that it's normal, etc. Our country doesn't have a proper strategy when it comes to education. The money has entered this area as well. So the capital has moved to this area as well. This is best seen in the case of the dual education that we mentioned here today and what the largest number of my colleagues mentioned and talked about. Today, unfortunately, the main resolutions of liberal capitalism are illiterate. Therefore, it is not the goal of learning basic human values, but of learning basic commands to do what is required of him. Profit comes first, education comes second or maybe last. Not even businessmen, who have entered the education sector today, have any idea what education is. For them, education is, above all, the transfer of some basic skills to students and those they teach. In reality, such education and such knowledge do not create man, but create biosharves for economic machinery. Thomas More also said that the primary and primary objective of education is the internal knowledge of what is right, and that such knowledge does not depend on someone else's words and does not depend on someone else's opinion. Of course, there's none of that today. An educated man is, above all, the man who knows the answer to the most important question. Education means ending the act of creation, creating, etc. In front of teachers, when I tell teachers, I think, first of all, of all those who participate in the education process, there is raw material that can speak, that can walk, that has a great number of desires, that is infected with mass culture, and that kind of material needs to be made of a man, first of all, and when we have a man, then we'll have everything else. Without a man, there's nothing. Master, and I've already said, when I say teacher what I mean, the student, above all, gives the main and basic life guidelines. The master provides the student with craft skills. A teacher creates a man while a master creates a craftsman. Consumer society today minimises the role of teachers because it needs not man but consumer. As for schools and the way education is reformed, we must be aware that without ideas, without an idea sphere, there is no real reform of education and no real school. Where there's no idea, no science, no production and nothing. Mr. Minister, I want to believe that you have honestly entered this project, that you have invested great energy and your great experience in this area, but I'm not sure, although I would like you to succeed in this. First of all, I'm thinking about this dual education, because according to me and the attitude that the SRS has, this is one failed project, one failure that certainly won't be able to live. This is one delusion, or better to say self-deception, I don't want to say that you had bad intentions, because every deception is not seen at the beginning but seen at the end of the road when you want to touch the expected results. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23318	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23319	Without having to take it wrong, on the contrary, I personally think that life and reality will show what is true.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23320	Thank you. The word is from the MP Nikola Savic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23321	Here, just a short replica. You think so, me and the MP group of SRS and a huge number of my colleagues, and 33 years full of work in education, just think the opposite of you, but I wish you were right, not me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23322	Thank you, fellow Saviæ. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23323	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Honorable Chairman, respected Minister Sarcevic, with his associates, the SNS and its coalition partners have been ready to face all challenges with the goal of ensuring Serbia and our people's prosperity. The president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, and as prime minister of the government, stressed the importance of dual education. Analysis of the effects of the provisions of the proposal for a dual education law has been carried out. The analysis has shown and defined the problems the law needs to address, then the desired objectives of law-making and found that law-making is the best way to solve the problem. Local self-government where I come from, the town of Leskovac and the mayor, Dr Goran Cvetanovic, recognized the necessity and benefits of learning through the work of employers and supported and encouraged the directors of professional schools to establish co-operation with the economy. Thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, the German government, Serbian-German co-operation, the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development and a project of reform of secondary vocational education, implemented through the German organisation for international co-operation of GIZ in Leskovac, a school for textiles and design, a German expert has been involved since 2013. Through this project, the director, experts, teachers, students had the opportunity to get acquainted with dual education in Germany, to establish partnership relations with schools from other countries and to monitor technological development, and to visit fairs of textiles and textile machines in Milan and Istanbul, as well as to participate in the development and modification of the curricula and programmes in line with the needs of the economy. In the company "Falke" in Leskovac, four generations of students who have been studying through work in a real working environment in practical classes received their jobs after schooling, and in the company Autostop Interiors, three generations of students received jobs in the same way, at the age of 18. Students receive financial compensation for learning through work in these companies. Co-operation is mutually and decisively arranged. The implementation of curricula and programs is monitored. Instructors, mentors at companies regularly inform the school about the achievements and progress of students through the student matrix and are in constant contact with teachers of practical teaching. In addition, the German government equipped a conference workshop with sewing machines and completely renovated and equipped a training centre at a school for textiles and design, and the company "Falke" donated two machines to make socks. The school had the full support of local self-government and the opening of training centre was of great importance for the town of Leskovac. In the presence of representatives of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, the Republic of Serbia, representatives of the German Embassy and the GIZ, as well as businessmen, Mayor Goran Cvetanovic opened this, according to the highest standards, equipped workshop. Today, eight Falke companies, Autostop Interiors, Djinns and Dic, Lola, Tricotex with this school have contracts to conduct practical teaching and student scholarships. Since this year, there has been excellent co-operation with the Technical School in Vlasotinc, also in the German government project implemented through the GIZ, which includes five companies. Dear Ministers, a cheap labour force, which the tongues so call in the jargon, are produced in a system of education where young people are not given a chance to gain the quality of knowledge that is consistent with modern technical and technological development, which young people need to offer better employability. Therefore, the law on dual education is the biggest step among the laws passed by the Ministry of Education in a positive way, as it will allow young people to learn in two places, i.e. that their theoretical knowledge can functionally through learning, through working in companies, checking and examples. The quality of their knowledge in this way gives them a chance to get a quick job, as well as to choose conditions for their employment as experts. A serious economy, as the Serbian economy becomes, does not need cheap and unprofessional labour, but rather young, creative, educated and innovative people, who will improve the system in Serbia's future. As we know, by opening new companies in modern technologies, Serbia's economy is progressing every day, and this gives young people the opportunity to respond to these challenges to refreshed functional knowledge through a dual education system and make the economy sustainable in the future. This law, which improves part of the system of secondary vocational education, has made clear decisions on the rights, obligations and responsibilities of all stakeholders, in order to improve the quality of knowledge of our young people, as well as respect for their rights, which are clearly defined through this law through the principles and objectives. The young people through this system will no longer passively observe very serious production processes in companies, but will actively participate in learning through the work and learning of their skills, along with licensed instructors and teachers. In 21st century companies, it brings smart machines, and young people through this law have the opportunity to use these modern processes, through design and programming, to manage. All those who think that children through dual education are doing simple operations on outdated machines, prove that they have never entered modern domestic and foreign companies that operate in Serbia, and thus try to stop the educational development of our young people, as well as their survival in Serbia. In addition to all the above, this law will provide young people with opportunities to work in their country, as well as to build their future thoroughly and successfully. Dear Minister Sarčević, I thank you for creating such a law, especially the assistant ministers of dual education at the sacrifice you have invested on this serious task, which resulted in the completion of all the places for dual education profiles this year in the school system. Of course, in the voting day, I will support the bill with my vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23324	Thank you, colleague Bogatinovic. The word is Alexander Chabrai. Here you go, colleague, you've got one minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23325	Chairman, you yourself have said that I have very little time and that is why I will not stick to everything my opposition colleagues have already said about dual education. I'm going to stay just a moment on what those who defend the introduction of dual education, which sounds very unconvincing to me, and here's why. Some arguments for introducing dual education were read in style -- it's easy for those who are materially secure to talk about it, let's help those who have nothing. What does that tell us? This tells us precisely that those who defend the introduction of this education feel that this is meant for the poor. However, since I have also heard that we have not made a smart proposal here, the Single Parliament Club has made a proposal to introduce compulsory high school. That's what we suggested in the adoption of the roof law, and that's what we're proposing right now. I've never heard of anyone having anything against this law. If so, and you have all commended this idea, I would ask you to make sure that some step is really made and that our proposal is adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23326	Thank you very much. The word is Olivera Pesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23327	Thank you. I will talk about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Preschool Education and Education and the Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Agreement "The Project of Inclusive Preschool Education and Education" between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was signed in May 2017 in Belgrade. The Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017 provides for a debt of up to $50m, with a view to improving pre-school education and education services, especially for children from socially vulnerable environments. Therefore, this loan has a development objective and is closely linked to the draft law amending and supplementing the Preschool Education and Education Act, it is in line with the Development Strategy for Education and Action Plan for its implementation and will contribute to reforming pre-school education and education. Serbia is in debt of 47m euros under very favourable conditions, an excellent interest rate, with a 21-year repayment deadline, including a five-year start-up period with a repayment plan in the 32-year war. So 32m euros from this loan, i.e. two-thirds of the total amount, will be spent on building new and expanding existing pre-school facilities, or 32m euros will be spent to increase the number of vacancies in pre-school institutions. There will be about 17,000 new places in preschool institutions in the Republic of Serbia, and this will solve the problem that exists in many local environments, in many local self-governments, which are long waiting lists for children to enter a preschool facility. This problem exists in the entire Jablanic district, but also in the town of Leskovac, from which I come and whose citizens I represent in this high house, where there are over 300 children on the waiting list. I sincerely hope that the town of Leskovac will have priority as the fifth city of size in the Republic of Serbia in the distribution of funds from this loan and that these funds will build a kindergarten, which will solve the decades-old problem of our citizens, i.e. parents whose children are to attend a preschool facility. The state, led by President Aleksandar Vukic, began to worry about the development of southern Serbia by opening new jobs, but we also need kindergartens to allow parents to work to achieve their basic right to exist. The loan will provide grants for 30 local self-government, for the purpose of improving communication with the most sensitive groups. I believe that the south of Serbia and the town of Leskovac alone should have priority in the assignment of these grants, for the last five years, because the preschool institution "Vukica Mitrovica" has organised special programmes in rural areas for children aged three to five and a half years in 38 educational groups, covering 500 children from rural areas. So these are children who don't attend preschool and these programs are completely free. It also contributes to the fact that there is a Roma population in the territory of the city that makes up a significant percentage of the population, and these are certainly children who are not integrated into this system. This loan plans the purchase of furniture, equipment and playgrounds for all new and renovated preschool institutions, which will significantly improve the quality of services. The quality of services in preschool institutions will also be raised through the improvement of the education of educators and other staff, as well as through the improvement of education of the institution managers. 4.7m euros are planned for this purpose. The subsidisation of children from the most endangered families is also foreseen. These are subsidies for families with children from three to five and a half years of age, for families who are beneficiaries of financial welfare. To this end, fourm euros are planned. This project will contribute to the achievement of the general objective of amending and supplementing the Preschool Education and Education Act, which is a greater coverage of children from three to five years of age, because the fact is that pre-school education and education are significantly less involved children from lower socioeconomic status families, rural children, Roma children, as well as children whose parents have significantly lower education. Another good side of the amendment and addition of the Preschool Education Act is seen in the fact that clearly defined frameworks of the Law on the establishment of an individual operational plan, which now includes children of social deprivation, are different from the applicable rules. Changes and additions will also affect the readiness of preschool institutions to respond to differences among children and will significantly improve the principle of individualisation. I call on all MPs to support both this law and all other legislative proposals on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23328	Thank you. The word is Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23329	Thank you. President-in-Office, ministers with guests from the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen MPs, today I will talk about a set of laws concerning education, in fact this represents only one alignment technically with the basic system of education and education, and of course, the proposal for a law on dual education. We've heard a lot tonight, mostly a little constructive. It should be noted that the Republic of Serbia from the IT sector is making 400m euros annually. Why the IT sector? Well, that's why dual education is currently missing 15,000 experts in Serbia, which is why 1,000 people are on the desk, which is why there are currently 150,000 people in Serbia, someone is uneducated, someone simply has the wrong school. It's a good thing there is, this law is in 2013 we didn't regulate the law on dual education. Of course, the projection by 2022 will be that Serbia, from the IT sector, has a billion-and-a-half-euro copy of the software. Good for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Good for the Ministry. What's going on? In fact, there's a fourth economic revolution going on if we don't get attached to that car, unless we do these things, we'll always be stuck. Of course, we'll do dual education. And why is that? Because we give the kids a chance, they can't all be doctors of science, they can't all be ballerinas, let the kids pick whatever they want, and besides the contract between the employer and the school, as well as the contract between the students and the employer, we'll get great contracts with rights and obligations. No child will be able to behave the way it was 20 years ago. And why dual education? Because 3.1 billion euros were spent between 2001 and 2012. It's nonses. It must never happen again. It must never happen again. As for the company, of course, that Serbia is full of new factories and new companies, our president, former prime minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic opened 60 factories and we hired over 150,000 young people there. Well, that's the point. Right now, we have two billion investments. The Republic is Serbia, the best in terms of the region, as far as investment is concerned. Stability factor in the region, so of course we will be opening new jobs and, of course, it is necessary to have dual education. Let everyone choose what's right for him. And since it is said that at the moment, it praises 15,000 experts from the electrical profession, from the construction profession, from tourismologists, so it is not normal for people to identify themselves for these kinds of occupations, and not only that, it goes towards theaffinities, it goes towards a healthy logic. What else is very important? That next to the dual, we'll also have entrepreneurial education. And why is that? This is a small country, with 7.5 million inhabitants. Of course, we will force healthy thinking and intelligence of the speed of identification of information, as well as entrepreneurship, lifestyle and culture. It's essential that we have a healthy rational opinion, that we have children who will deal with computers, this is the 21st century, people. I am very glad that from V basics I will be introduced as an object and that children will be able, with digitization, to behave like all other children in the world, to think normally fast and, unfortunately, now in Serbia, open 3% to 5% only, the people of the small business entrepreneurs, since I think that this is the prosperity of Serbia, small and medium-sized enterprises, and I am sure, as well as all my colleagues that in the day of voting, we will support the proposals of these laws. There's a lot more, but we've heard so much that really. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23330	Thank you. Even for tonight, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23331	Thank you. Dear Presidents, distinguished ministers with associates, dear fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, I will tell you tonight about the proposal for a law on dual education, which was sent to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on 10 October this year. Why is it important to introduce dual education? Why is it important to introduce a dual education system in our high schools? What exactly is dual education? These are just some of the elements of the new bill. Dual education is an education based on two principles of learning. We have theoretical knowledge in schools and practical knowledge learned in companies. It's learning through work. Who does this law apply to? What do students have about it? What's in it for parents? What does high school have in Serbia? What do local self-government have, the Chamber of Commerce? What's in Serbia's economy? It's just some of the questions this law defines. Dual education is one of the priorities of SNS, President Alexander Vukic, who said that the issue of dual education is actually our strategic decision because we want to change our country from the root, we want to think about our future generations, future generations. The decision has far-reaching consequences. It's a decision on Serbia's future. The Serbian Progressive Party has been responsible for joining this legal solution, and in the previous exposé of Mr. Aleksandr Vukic and Mrs. Brnabic's exposé, along with other topics, has a truly significant place. In this previous period, the Ministry has indeed studied examples of good practice in the most developed countries of Western Europe. There are also examples of Switzerland, Austria, Germany and incorporated in the proposed legislative solution. If we plan to have growth of three to five percent every year, if we want this country to have a lower unemployment rate, most often when we talk about young people in Serbia, then we need to reform our education system. Statistics show that young people in EU countries find employment between 15 and 24 years old. It's the first time we've had 30-year-olds coming to work. So, one third of their lives have passed, and then they come to us, to the employment service, and they're looking for a job. They're not ready enough, they don't have enough skills to work with. It's just some of the problems that we want to deal with and find our way to the end of the tunnel. In Serbia, 62% of unemployed young people who have no work experience, 150,000 people aged 16 to 24 are neither schooled nor worked. It's official statistics we have to imagine. That is why dual education is the most important topic today in Serbia. We have to train our young people to work. We have to train them to work while they're young, so it's not too late afterwards. It's important that we train them. It's important that we adopt the principle of permanent perfection, more decade-long perfection. So it's not enough to just make certain degrees, certain wolves. We really have to learn and perfect our lives. What the positive examples of developed countries in Europe say. In Switzerland, the lowest unemployment rate in the world is due to dual education. We don't need to copy any systems. We shouldn't just overwrite certain models. This did not bring any good, copying certain legal solutions. We have negative examples in Slovenia. We have negative examples in many EU countries that have just copied certain models and new education systems. We need to adapt legal solutions to the needs of our students, our teachers, the needs of our economy, our labour market, and the needs of the individual local self-government that we come from. The question is, who benefits from introducing dual education? The model of professional education, or the model of dual education, is truly beneficial for all. The students also have the benefit because they will gain the necessary knowledge, learn through work, receive some compensation, be protected by a contract, be provided with rights and obligations. These are all the elements of the proposed legal solution. After public debates were held in large cities. After the Nis, Belgrade and Novi Sad stands. Indeed, all relevant institutions in the state of Serbia and the Council for Professional Education and Education of Adults and the Regional Secretariat for Education, the National Minority Administration, that is, the National Communities and the Union of Employers and the PCC and the units of local self-government and representative trade unions of education and border unions are included. So all the actors are involved in making the bill before the law enters the National Assembly. An absolutely transparent process of proposing opened an e-mail address where citizens, i.e. professional associations, were able to submit their proposals, suggestions and 36 total proposals arrived through the Ministry and the Ministry incorporated most of these proposals and they became an integral part of the bill we are discussing today. A dual education system should solve one of the non-compliances currently in place in the education system. We don't really invent hot water here, we want to apply, for example, dual education in practice to become part of the modern world, to follow world trends, and to get close to at least the strongest economies in the world. Examples of positive in practice are in Switzerland, Germany, Austria. Speaking of Austria. The Austrian model of dual education has become, according to Sebastian Kurca, one of Austria's main export products. In Serbia, we have been making some shifts since 2013. We move from a dead end, move forward and introduce new educational profiles, introduce elements of dual education. What we've been missing all this time is a legislative framework. I come from Belgrade, from the Rakovic municipality, and I can tell you that positive examples, we can find at a shopping school in Belgrade - DM drugstore, University of Sport, Delese, Mercator, VIP mobile operators, are just examples of companies that have established co-operation with the Commercial School in Belgrade and which already have practice, as a test of their own knowledge and application taught in a concrete situation. But you didn't just stay in Belgrade. The caravan of education has also visited many other cities – The Technical School in Odzac is working with the car equipment factory "Magna", the educational profile of the fashion tailor was introduced; the secondary school "4". July" in Vrsac, which wants to introduce an educational profile of motor vehicle drivers, are just some of the examples of secondary schools. We have a large number of interested companies. That number is getting bigger and bigger every day. It's important that we educate young people, young high school kids who will find their jobs in a well-known employer after high school. I had the opportunity to attend, along with the Minister and Associates, the stands held in the municipality of Rakovica. Indeed, there was a large number of primary schools directors and directors of four secondary schools that exist in the territory of Rakovica. The general impression from that trial was next – they are all ready and all those in this law see a simple chance to improve the education system in Serbia. They all see a chance and a chance to really change something. They are eager, crying for changes in the education system in Serbia. Some schools in Rakovica immediately tackled a dual education system. The Rakovica secondary crafts school is the biggest school in the Balkans, the largest in Serbia, when it comes to education of people with special needs, so high school students with special needs. We have a student cooperative, we have a GIZ project that this school wants to educate, we have a "Radoje Dakic" secondary engineering school, which really wants to get involved and introduce some of the elements of dual education in its programmes at the moment. In these two days, we heard from opposition colleagues that we found a catastrophic situation in the education system in Serbia. I ask you, dear fellow Members of the People, who is to blame? Is that what Alexander Wolf is to blame? No, he wasn't a minister at the time, he wasn't even the prime minister at the time. Is it the Serbian Progressive Party's fault? Is it Mr. Mladen Sarcevic, who ran a private school? No, of course not. It is the others who are now critical of this really well-proposed legal solution at all bells. When was the last reform of the education system done, I ask you? When Mr. Alexander Vucic started rebuilding schools, hospitals, toilets, gyms, classrooms, many on social networks made fun of all these moves, many laughed. When it was launched for each municipality in Serbia to receive either an ambulance or a health home or for large cities to get restored or newly built clinical centres, someone sat by and criticised the good results of the politics of Aleksandar Vukic, the good results of the Serbian Progressive Party. I come from the township of Rakovic. We've heard 40 years about building a home of health. Not a single government, not a previous one, not before that one, has set up a single brick, not a single stone for home to health on the Mount of Labud. We've fulfilled that promise now. After 40 years, the Municipality of Rakovica receives a modern and functional home of health. I would like to say that we do have a lot of accumulated problems, and in terms of sewage networks in Belgrade, and in terms of starting new plants, new construction sites in Belgrade. Somehow, we were in the cage the whole time. Belgrade now has over a thousand construction sites in Serbia. Belgrade is really developing from day to day. The Serbian Progressive Party's responsible policy, Sinisha Mali's mayor, gives good results. Dear citizens of Serbia, dear Belgraders, I ask you -- how much could this be a hospital, school, kindergarten, railways, subways, parking space, built in Belgrade based on the debt left by the previous government? The debt in the city of Belgrade is a billion and 200m euros, which the previous DS left us in the amanet? I ask you, what could have been done with all that money? We have tasked every Belgrade citizen with over 600 euros, when the total debt of Belgrade municipalities is taken is 1,000 euros. The debt has now been reduced and amounts to 500m euros, which is indeed a great result of the Belgrade government's responsible policy, headed by the mayor. Dear fellow ministers, in the end, I want to say the following situation. The conclusion itself is imposed by the production of wolves without practical and useful knowledge, the production of diplomas without skills and knowledge of the necessary economies. We actually make students just for the employment desk, we don't cook students for the labour market. Every day we have to work on the subject of dual education, because it's really the most important topic that will provide us with a reduction in the unemployment rate, and it will lead to an appreciation for the quality of education, which comes out of such reformed secondary schools, we will cultivate long entrepreneurship in young people, which is something that we really missed for a long time. And at the very end, in voting day, I call on all my fellow MPs, whether they come from the ranks of the position or the opposition to support this truly legal excellent solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-25-0.u23332	Thank you. As promised, this is what we've done today's work and we'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you.
