ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-14-0.u28783	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 131 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 152 MPs are present in the hall. We move to a decision on the proposals for the act referred to in points 1 to 31 of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, against – four, abstentions – there are no, nine MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote of all MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, the Parliament Group of Independent MPs, the Democratic Party and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I'm just asking you to be a little quiet. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted a parliamentary group to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. It finds that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and Serbian Progressive Party MPs together submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, were submitted by the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, the Free Members' Club Group, the Democratic Break parliamentary group and the Dveri parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted a parliamentary group to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: no four MPs voted for – 149, against – seven abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2017, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 147 against – 10 abstentions – no, four MPs did not vote. (Saša Radulovic: Rules of Procedure. ) I find that the National Assembly adopted the draft law supplementing the Budget Law for 2017 by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the Social Insurance Fund's Social Security Fund for 2017, number 400-3782/17 as of 1 December 2017, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, v – four, abstention – one, 18 MPs did not vote. (Saša Radulovic: Rules of Procedure. ) I find that the National Assembly adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision amending the Social Insurance Fund's 2017 Fund. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending the National Employment Service Financial Plan for 2017, No 400-3783/17 of 1 December 2017, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, v – two, abstention – two, 16 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly adopted the proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision amending the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2017. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund for 2017, No 400-3563/17 of 17 November 2017, in general. (Saša Radulovic: Rules of Procedure. ) I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – four, abstention – two, 11 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to give its consent in the Decision on amendments and additions to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2017. I am putting the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system in principle. (Saša Radulovic: Rules of Procedure. ) I conclude the vote and declare: for – 148, v – 10 abstentions – no, four MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group, the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party and Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for four, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, abstentioned—one. (Saša Radulovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) I find that this amendment has not been accepted. On Article 1 of the amendment was tabled by the MPs' group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no proposal has been accepted. National MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and Serbian Progressive Party MPs together submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, the Serbian Radical Party's MP group, the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, the MP Aleksandra Jerkov and the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and Serbian Progressive Party MPs together submitted the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. (Saša Radulovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the Serbian Radical Party MP group, the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club and Aleksandra Jerkov submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, is on Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. (Saša Radulovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and Serbian Progressive Party MPs together submitted the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 4th of the amendment, in the same text, the Serbian Radical Party MP group, the Social Democratic Party MP, the People's Party, the MP Aleksandra Jerkov, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 4 of the amendment is the MP group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting the amendment to vote. (Saša Radulovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) I conclude the vote: for – two, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven Serbian Progressive Party MPs submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, abstention – one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the people sent by Balša Bozovic and the MP of the people, Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. (Saša Radulovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – four against – none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 5, the parliamentary group is the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. (Saša Radulovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) I conclude the vote: for – one, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Dejan Sulkic, Gorica Gajic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. To Article 5. The amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. (Saša Radulovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and Serbian Progressive Party MPs together submitted the 5th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Serbian Radical Party and MP Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 6th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 6 of the amendment is the Social Democratic Party MP group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I ask the MPs of the group enough to stop recording the course of the session because it is forbidden. He's only right about RTS. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and Serbian Progressive Party MPs together submitted the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. (Saša Radulovic: Rules of Procedure. You're breaking the law. ) I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Serbian Radical Party, the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and the People's MP Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven Serbian Progressive Party MPs submitted the 7th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. (Saša Radulovic: Rules of Procedure. ) I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, abstention – one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Serbian Radical Party, the Social Democratic Party and the People's MP Aleksandra Jerkov submitted to the 8th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 8th of the amendment, the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, is the Social Democratic Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. (Saša Radulovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 9th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party MP, MP Dejan Sulkic, the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party and MP Aleksandra Jerkov and Balsa Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—eight against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 10th Amendment was submitted to the same text by the 10 MPs of the SRS and the MP of Alexander Jerkov. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 10th amendment. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 10th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted to the same text by the 15 MPs of the SRS group and the MP of the people, Aleksandr Jerkov. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I conclude the vote: for – four, against – one, with abstention – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 11th amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 12th amendment was submitted to the same text by the 12 MPs of the SRS group and the MP of the people, Aleksandr Jerkov. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 12th amendment. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. (Saša Radulovic: Rules of Procedure, you are breaking the law. 15 MPs of the SRS group and the MP Alexander Jerkov submitted to the 13th amendment in the same text. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 13th amendment. I conclude the vote: for one, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I conclude the vote: for – six, against – one, with abstention – there is no. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 14th Amendment was submitted to the same text by the 15 MPs of the SRS group and the MP of the people, Aleksandr Jerkov. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 14th amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I conclude the vote: there are no abstentions for – four against—there are no abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 15th amendment was submitted to the same text by 15 MPs of the SRS group, five MPs of the SDS, NS and the MP of Alexander Jerkov. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – three, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I conclude the vote: for – six, against – one, abstention – one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. (Saša Radulovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You're breaking the law. ) The 16th Amendment was submitted to the same text by the 15 MPs of the SRS and the MP of Alexander Jerkov. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for – six against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 16th amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 16th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—eight, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 17th Amendment was submitted to the same text by 15 MPs of the SRS group, five MPs of the SDS, NS and the MP of Alexander Jerkov. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I conclude the vote: for – three, against – no one with abstentions is present. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 18 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I conclude the vote: there is no one who is abstentioned for – two, against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 18th Amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 18th amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote: for – 146, v – 11, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting the draft amending and supplementing law on the budgetary system, in general. I conclude the vote: for – 145, against – 12, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Budgetary System Act. I put to the vote the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2018, in principle. I conclude the vote: for – 147 versus – 12, with abstentions – there is no. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstention for—seven against—there is no one. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – five, against – one, with abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Milos Boskovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP, Ljubka Mihajlovska, submitted to the 1st Amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP Tatjana Macura submitted to the 1st Amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Four MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 1st amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party together submitted to the 1st amendment. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, abstention – one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Maja Vidinovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 1st amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 1st Amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 1a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 1a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 1a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 1a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 1a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 1a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 1a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 1a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 1a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for seven against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 1a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 1a was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no vote for – six against – one with abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 2, the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 15 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party Group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party's Parliament Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Vladimir Djuric submitted to the 2nd amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Milos Boskovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the People's MP, lovely Mihajlovska. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for -three, against - none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Ana Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Tatjan Macura. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by the Dverry parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for - four against. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Balsa Bozovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for -five, against - none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 2 tabled by MP Alexander Jerkov. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 2 which were submitted jointly by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for six against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 2 tabled by the MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for -five, against - none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 2a, which was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 2a submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 2a submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 2a, which was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 2a, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Ljubka Mihajlovska. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 2a, which was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments proposing the addition of Article 2a, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Tatjan Macura. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 2a, which was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 2a, which was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 2a submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 2a, which was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 3 submitted by the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for -three, against - none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by the Dverry parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for - four against. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to Article 3 which were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for - four against. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Vladimir Djuric. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ratko Jankov. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Milos Boskovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by the People's MP, Lovely Mihajlovska. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Ana Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Tatjan Macura. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Djordje Vukadinovic and Slavisa Ristic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 tabled by MP Milan Lapcevic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for -three, against - none. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MP Sonja Pavlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 3 tabled by MP Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 3a, which was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 3a, which was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 3a submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 3a, which was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 3a, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Ljubka Mihajlovska. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 3a, which was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I would like to put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 3a, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Tatjan Macura. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 3a, which was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 3a, which was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 3a submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 3a, which was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled in the same text by the MPs of the SRS and the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Balsa Bozovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 4 tabled by the Dverry parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MP Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put the amendments to article 4 tabled by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 4, which were jointly tabled by the MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and the MPs of the SNS group.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-14-0.u28784	I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted 155 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 4a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted 155 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 4a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted with the 156 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 4a was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted with the 156 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 4a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 4a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 4a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 4a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 4a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 4a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 4a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 4a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 15 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and by five MP groups of SDS, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two MPs. 155 of the Messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, the abstentioned, voted for – two against – 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sonja Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two, but 156 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted with one another, 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, the abstentioned, who has not been voted by 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 155 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two, but 156 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 5a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 5a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 5a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 5a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 5a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 5a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 5a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 5a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 5a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 5a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted to the same text by the people by Aleksandra Jerkov, together by Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic, 14 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for four against them; there has been no vote by 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Milos Boskovic submitted to the 6th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted with one another, 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted in 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs from the Serbian Progressive Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 6a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 6a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 6a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 6a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 6a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 6a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 6a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 6a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 6a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 6a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 6a was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, no one who has voted, 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one against the abstentions. There is no one to vote. 154 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Miroslav Aleksic and Nenad Konstantinovic submitted the 7th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention, for two, against them; there is no one who voted, 153 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Goran Bogdanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention, for two, against them; there is no one who voted, 153 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention, for two, against them; there is no one who has been held back, who has not voted: 152 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs from the Serb Progressive Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for four, and there is no one to vote for 151 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 7a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 7a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not voted, 153 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 7a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 7a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 7a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 7a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted - 153. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 7a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 7a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, voted 153 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 7a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 7a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted - 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 7a was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, has voted, 153 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted - 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, was 154 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Milos Boskovic submitted to the 8th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, was 154 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, lovely Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, was 154 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one against the abstentions. There is no one to vote. 154 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, was 154 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, was 154 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, was 154 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two and no one with abstention, who has not voted, 153 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Milojcic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one, abstentioned, one, did not vote, 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 21st People's MP of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one against the abstentions. There is no vote. 154 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the LDP – LSV – SDA Sandzak submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against one, no one, abstentioned -- one, did not vote -- 151 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, was 154 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Maja Vidinovic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted for – for – two – 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, has voted, 154 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, self-abstained, has ever voted in favour of - three against - 152 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Bogdanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one against the abstentions. There is no one to vote. 155 Messengers of the people. . I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zdravko Stankovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one against the abstentions. There is no one to vote. 156 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention, for two and two, there is no one to vote, 154 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Marija Janjusevic and Mr Ivan Kostic together submitted the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention, for two and two, there is no one to vote, 154 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Dragan Vesovic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not voted, 155 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not voted, 154 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Jesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them, who has not voted, 153 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted to the 8th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for five, there is no one who has voted, 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them, who has not voted, 153 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not voted, 154 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted for – for – two – 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for five, there is no one who has voted, 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Komic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for eight, and there is no one who has ever voted. 147 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Nada Lazic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for four against them. There is no one who voted, 151 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Žigmanov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for five, no one, abstentioned, one, voted, 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to the 8th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for two, against them, who has not voted, 153 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, abstentioned, voted for – for – two – 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was filed by MP Srdjan Nogo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two and no one with abstentions; they have not voted. 152 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote— 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for five, and there is no one to vote against. 149 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Balša Bozovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for three, and there is no one to vote against, 151 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Marjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for three, and there is no one to vote against, 151 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Radojicic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, has voted, 153 Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for four against them. There is no one who voted, 151 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 8a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 8a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 8a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 8a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 8a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 8a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 8a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 8a was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 8a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 8a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 8a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 14 MPs of the SRS submitted to the 9th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not been voted by 153 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Milos Boskovic submitted to the 9th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Dr Ana Stevanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP Tatjana Macura submitted to the 9th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, was 152 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, voted 151 people's messenger. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, voted 151 people's messenger. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Aleksandar Stevanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, was voted by 149 people's messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, was 152 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, no one who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 152 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Miroslav Aleksic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, no one who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 152 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to the 9th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, was 152 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 9th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – five, against – no one who is abstention – who has not voted 148 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 9a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, was 152 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 9a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, was 152 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 9a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 9a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic to the vote on this amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 9a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 9a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 9a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, was 152 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 9a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 9a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 9a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 14 MPs of the SRS group submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions, but 154 MPs did not vote. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Milos Boskovic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Lovely Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 10th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Tatjana Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two, and 153 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not been voted by 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 10th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs from the Serbian Progressive Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who does not have 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP Alexander Chabrai submitted to the 10th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 10a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 10a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 10a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 10a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 10a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 10a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 10a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 10a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 10a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 10a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 14 MPs to the Serbian Radical Party group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Milos Boskovic submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by national envoy Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 11th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for one thing there has been no vote of 149 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for one thing there has been no vote of 149 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 11a was submitted by 12 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 11a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 11a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 11a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 11a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 11a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 11a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for one thing there has been no vote of 149 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 11a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 11a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 11a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 11a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by 14 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 12th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Goran Bogdanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Miroslav Aleksic and Zdravko Stankovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted with 149 MPs I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Goran Ciric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two, two, none of the messengers voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 12th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Radoslav Milojic and Nenad Konstantinovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two, two, none of the messengers voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two, two, none of the messengers voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 12a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 12a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 12a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 12a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 12a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 12a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 12a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 12a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 12a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 12a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 14 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 13th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri Group submitted to the 13th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, no one who has been held back, who has not voted 148 Members of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Radoslav Milojic and together Marko Djurisic and Nenad Konstantinovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, no one who has been held back, who has not voted 148 Members of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 13th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, no one who has been held back, who has not voted 148 Members of the people. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted the 13th amendment together. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not voted 150 people's messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS Group together submitted the 13th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 13a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 13a. National MP Vladimir Djuric submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 13a. The People's MP, Ratko Jankov, submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 13a. National MP Milos Boskovic submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 13a. The People's Messenger, lovely Mihajlovska, submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 13a. The MP, Ana Stevanovic, submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 13a. The People's MP, Tatjana Macura, submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 13a. National MP Branislav Mihajlovic submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 13a. National MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 13a. National MP Aleksandar Stevanovic submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 14th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 14 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Seven MPs from the Dveri Group submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendments were submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 14th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP Alexander Chabrai. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party together submitted the 14th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 149. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for one thing there has been no vote of 149 people's messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 14a. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 14a. National MP Vladimir Djuric submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 14a. The People's MP, Ratko Jankov, submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 14a. National MP Milos Boskovic submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 14a. The People's Messenger, lovely Mihajlovska, submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 14a. The MP, Ana Stevanovic, submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 14a. The People's MP, Tatjana Macura, submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of article 14a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 14a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 14a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 14 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted the same text to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for - one, against - no one who is abstention - who has not voted with 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the 15th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for - four against - 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic jointly submitted the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against one, has voted against the abstentions, for 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has no vote of 147 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 15a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I put this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 15a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 15a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 15a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 15a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 15a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 15a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 15a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 15a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 15a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 16th amendment was submitted to the same text by MP Balsa Bozovic and 14 MPs from the SRS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted for 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for - one, against - no one who is abstentioned, who has not voted 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zdravko Stankovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for - one, against - no one who is abstentioned, who has not voted 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Marko Djurisic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Goran Bogdanovic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for -one, against - no one, with abstentions, has voted for 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please welcome our guests who are currently attending the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's gallery. It is a delegation from the Committee of the State Dume on Economic Policy, Industry, Innovation Development and Entrepreneurship. We're going back to work. Members of the 16th Amendment were submitted to the same text by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov and Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three, no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted 151 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted against 153 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The National MP Alexander Chabrai submitted to the 16th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Dejan Sulkic submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 16th amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarian Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 16a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 16a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 16a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of a member of the 16a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 16a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 16a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 16a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 16a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 16a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 16a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic and 14 MPs from the SRS, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention, who has not been voted by 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 17th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two, two, no one with abstention, not 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two or two, and 153 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 17a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 17a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 17a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 17a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 17a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 17a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 17a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 17a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 17a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 17a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 14 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned in favour of—two, against—no one who is abstention—no one has voted in 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for four against 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Goran Bogdanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 18 of the amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - 153 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing there is no one who has voted 155 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Miroslav Aleksic submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to the 18th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 18th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs from the Serbian Progressive Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 18a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 18a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 18a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 18a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 18a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 18a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 18a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 18a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 18a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 18a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 14 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The National MP Alexander Chabrai submitted to the 19th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 19th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 19th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs from the Serbian Progressive Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 145 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 19a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 19a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted in favour of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 19a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 19a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 19a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 19a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 19a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 19a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 19a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 19a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, 14 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, no one who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – two – no one who has been abstaining – who has not voted 150 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 20a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 20a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 20a was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 20a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which suggests adding a member of the 20th, was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 20a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 20a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 20a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 20a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 20a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 20a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Sonja Pavlovic, 14 MPs of the SRS group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Goran Ciric submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to the 21st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—three against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted 147 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 21a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 21a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 21a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of a member of 21a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 21a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 21a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 21a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 21a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 21a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 21a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 22 of the amendment, in the same text, 14 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Alexander Chabrai, submitted to the 22nd Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two and two, and 151 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of members of 22a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 22 was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, no one who is abstentioned, who has not been voted by 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 22a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 22a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 22 was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of members of 22a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 22 was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of members of 22a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihailovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 22a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 22a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 14 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned who has not voted - 151 people's messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the proposed amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 23a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-14-0.u28785	The amendment proposing the addition of Article 23a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 23a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 23a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 23 was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 23a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 23a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 23a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihailovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 23a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 23a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 14 MPs of the SRS group submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 24th amendment was jointly submitted by the People's MP Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of a member of 24a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 24a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one, abstentioned, one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 24a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of a member of 24a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 24a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 24a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 24a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of a member of 24a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihailovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of a member of 24a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 24a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted by 14 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of—one who is against—no one who is abstentioned—no one has voted for 136 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. There is no one to vote for 136 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25, the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov, submitted to the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 25a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 25a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 25a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 25a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 25a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 25a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 25a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 25a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 25a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 25a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 26 of the amendment, in the same text, 14 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 26th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs from the SNS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of members of 26a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of members of 26a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of members of 26a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 26a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of a member of 26a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 26a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of members of 26a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 26a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of members of 26a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of members of 26a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 27 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic, together Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Nenad Konstantinovic and 14 of the SRS' national parliamentary groups. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic and Zdravko Stankovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 27a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 27a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 27a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 27a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 27a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 27a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 27a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 27a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 27a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 27a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On the 28th amendment, in the same text, 14 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Sonja Pavlovic submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic jointly submitted the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 28th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group together submitted the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 28a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 28a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against one, no one, abstentioned, one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 28a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of article 28a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 28a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for three, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 28a was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 28a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of article 28a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 28a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of article 28a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, 14 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group together submitted the 29th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of members of 29a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 29a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for—five, against—there is no one. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment, proposed to add a member of the 29th, was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 29a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 29a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 29a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 29a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of a member of 29a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 29a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 29a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 14 MPs of the SRS group submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 30a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 30a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 30a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 30a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 30a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 30a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 30a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 30a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 30a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 30a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 14 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group together submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 31a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 31a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 31a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of a member of 31a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 31a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 31a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 31a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 31a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 31a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 31a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by 14 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Veroljub Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 32a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 32 was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 32a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 32a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 32a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 32a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 32a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 32a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 32a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 32a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 33rd amendment was submitted by 14 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party Group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 33rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs from the Serbian Progressive Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 33a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of article 33a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 33a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 33a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 33a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 33a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of article 33a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 33a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 33a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 33a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 14 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party have submitted to the 34th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party together submitted to the 34th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for three against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 34. National MP Sasa Radulovic submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 34. National MP Vladimir Djuric submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 34. The People's MP, Ratko Jankov, submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 34. National MP Milos Boskovic submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 34. The People's Messenger, lovely Mihajlovska, submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 34. The MP, Ana Stevanovic, submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 34. The People's MP, Tatjana Macura, submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 34. National MP Branislav Mihajlovic submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 34. National MP Branka Stamenkovic submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. An amendment proposing the addition of Article 34. National MP Aleksandar Stevanovic submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to the 35th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party together submitted to the 35th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. National MP Radoslav Milojic submitted to the 35th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 35th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 35a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 35a submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 35a, which was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments proposing the addition of Article 35a submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 35a, which was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments proposing the addition of Article 35a, which was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 35a, which was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendment to vote, proposing the addition of Article 35a, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Tatjan Macura. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 35a submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 35a, which was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 35a submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to Article 36, which were tabled by the five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 36, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 36, which were jointly tabled by the MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 36a, which was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 36a submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for -one against - none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 36a submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 36a, which was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 36a, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Ljubka Mihajlovska. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 36a, which was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendment to vote, proposing the addition of Article 36a, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Tatjan Macura. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 36a, which was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 36a, which was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 36a, which was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 37, which have been tabled by 14 MPs of the SRS. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 37, which was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 37, which was tabled by MP Daniel Stojadinovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I would like to put the amendments to article 37, which were submitted jointly by the MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladinovic and seven MPs of the SNS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting amendments to article 37, which were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 37, which have been tabled by the five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 37a, which was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 37a submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for -one against - none. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments proposing the addition of Article 37a submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 37a, which was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 37a, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Ljubka Mihajlovska. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put the amendments to the vote proposing the addition of Article 37a, which was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting to vote the amendments proposing the addition of Article 37a, which was submitted by Parliamentarian Tatjan Macura. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 37a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 37a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 37a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 14 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 38th amendment in the same text. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to the 38th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group together submitted the 38th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 38a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-14-0.u28786	I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 38a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 38a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 38a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 38a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 38a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 38a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 38a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 38a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 38a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment in the same text were submitted jointly by MPs Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic and Nenad Konstantinovic and 14 MPs of the SRS group. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to the 39th amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—one against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group submitted together to the 39th amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one with abstentions for—four, against—there is no one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of members of 39a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of members of 39a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 39a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of a member of the 39a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 39a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 39a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 39a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of members of 39a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 39a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 39a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 14 MPs of the SRS group submitted to the 40th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 40th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Pavlovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to the 40th amendment. I conclude the vote: there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Miroslav Aleksic submitted to the 40th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 40th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 40th Amendment was filed by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SNS group together submitted to the 40th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of members of 40a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of members of the 40th was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of members of the 40th was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of members of the 40th was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of a member of the 40th was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of a member of the 40th was submitted by MP Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of a member of the 40th was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of members of the 40th was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of members of the 40th was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of a member of the 40th was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 14 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Marinika Tesic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to the 41st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party together submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of members 41a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of the 41st member was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 41a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 41a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 41a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 41a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 41 was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of members 41a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 41a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of article 41a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 14 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 42nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 42nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs from the Serb Progressive Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of members 42a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 42a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 42a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of a member of 42a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 42a was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 42a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 42a was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of a member of 42a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 42a was submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of a member of 42a was submitted by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 14 MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 43rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic and Zoran Zivkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs from the Serb Progressive Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for four, against—no one, abstentioned—one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 43a was submitted by MP Sasa Radulovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 43a was submitted by MP Milos Boskovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 43a was submitted by MP Vladimir Djuric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 43a was submitted by MP Ratko Jankov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 43 was submitted by MP Ljubka Mihajlovska. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 43a was submitted by MP Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 43 was submitted by MP Tatjan Macura. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment proposing the addition of Article 43a was submitted by MP Branislav Mihajlovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I would like to vote on amendments to Branka Stamenkovic, which is proposed to add Article 43a. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments of MP Alexander Stevanovic, who is proposing the addition of Article 43. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to article 44, which were submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting amendments to the 44th vote tabled by the MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Stefana Miladanovic and seven MPs of the SRS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments to Tatjana Macura, which is proposed to add article 44. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put to vote the amendments to Sasa Radulovic, which is proposed to add article 44. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendment of Vladimir Djuric, which is proposed to add article 44. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments to Ratko Jankova, which are proposed to add article 44. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting on the vote by Milos Boskovic, who is proposing the addition of Article 44a. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I would like to vote on the amendments to Lovely Mihajlovska, which is proposed to add a member of 44. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I put on the vote by the amendments to Ana Stevanovic, which is proposed to add Article 44a. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am voting on the amendments to Branislav Mihajlovic, which is proposed to add a member of 44. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I would like to vote on amendments to Branka Stamenkovic, which is proposed to add Article 44a. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting to vote the amendments of Aleksandr Stevanovic, which are proposed to add article 44. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I'm putting the amendments to article 45, which was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 45 submitted by the SDS parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. As we have completed the debate under the amendments, please move to the vote. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. Since we have completed our decision on the amendments, I am putting the draft law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2018 in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – 12 abstentions – there are no, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, adopted the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2018. We're going back to work. I would like to put the motion for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund for 2018. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – one, abstention – one, seven MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Pension and Disability Insurance Fund for 2018. I would like to put the motion for a decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2018. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 versus – one, abstention – one, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund for 2018. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Social Insurance Fund for 2018. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 versus – one, abstention – one, two MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Social Insurance Fund for 2018. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision to give consent to the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2018. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – one, abstention – two, two, were not voted by two MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the proposal for a decision to give its consent to the National Employment Service's financial plan for 2018. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Act on additional value, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 149, v – one, abstention – two, three MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. A member of the 1st amendment, in the same text, was submitted by the SRS parliamentary group and the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted a parliamentary group to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Serbian Radical Party and the Democratic Party parliamentary group submitted to the 2nd amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted a parliamentary group to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Serbian Radical Party and Democratic Party MP group submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Group of the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted the amendment to Article 3. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Serbian Radical Party and Democratic Party MP group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted a parliamentary group to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted an amendment to Article 5. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The 6th Amendment was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party and the Democratic Party parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Democratic Party, the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted a parliamentary group to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Serbian Radical Party and Democratic Party MP group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted a parliamentary group to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Serbian Radical Party and Democratic Party MP group and the Social Democratic Party MP group, the People's Party, submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Serbian Radical Party Group and the Democratic Party parliamentary group submitted to the 10th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Serbian Radical Party and Democratic Party MP group submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted a parliamentary group to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Serbian Radical Party and the Democratic Party's parliamentary group and the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Serbian Radical Party and the Democratic Party's parliamentary group and the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted the amendment to Article 14. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The Serbian Radical Party and Democratic Party MP group submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The parliamentary group Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted an amendment to Article 15. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. As we have concluded our decision on amendments, I put it to the vote – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, against – no one, with abstention – three, voted ten MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax. I also ask the MPs, since we are under procedure, that those who wish to vote for the proposed laws do not leave the hall until the end of the session. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – no one, with abstention – three, voted ten MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. The Serbian Radical Party and Democratic Party MP group, the Social Democratic Party MP group, the People's Party, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I ask the messengers not to leave the room. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text submitted by the Serbian Radical Party and Democratic Party MP group, the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group, 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group and five MPs of the SDS, NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 4th amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group, 15 MPs of the DS group and five MPs of the SDS, NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 8th amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 9th amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group, 15 MPs of the DS group and five MPs of the SDS, NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group, 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group and five MPs of the SDS, NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 11th amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group, 15 MPs of the DS group and five MPs of the SDS, NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group, 15 MPs of the DS group and five MPs of the SDS, NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 14, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group, 15 MPs of the DS group and five MPs of the SDS, NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 19 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted the amendment to Article 19. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote of the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate tax, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted – five MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on corporate tax. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted – five MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill on amendments and additions to the law, in principle. On the 1st amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group, 15 MPs of the DS group and five MPs of the SDS, NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 4 of the amendments, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs were submitted to the 7th amendment by the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention for two or two. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment to the 10th Amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 11th Amendment was submitted by five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 13th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 14th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs were submitted to the 15th amendment by the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 16th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 17th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 19th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 19th Amendment was submitted by five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 20 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 22nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 23rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 24 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 26th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 27th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On the 28th amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 29th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 30 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On the 31st Amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 32nd Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 33 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 34th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On the 35th amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 36th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 37 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 38 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 39th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 40th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 41 of the amendment, in the same text, 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 42nd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 43rd amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 13 MPs of the SRS parliamentary group and 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 44th Amendment, in the same text, was filed by 13 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party Group and 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 45th amendment, in the same text, was filed by 13 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party Group and 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 46th amendment, in the same text, was filed by 13 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party Group and 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 47th amendment, in the same text, was filed by 13 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party Group and 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 48th amendment, in the same text, was filed by 13 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party Group and 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the amendment 48th. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 49th Amendment, in the same text, was filed by 13 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party and 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 50th amendment, in the same text, was filed by 13 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party Group and 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 50th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 51st Amendment, in the same text, was filed by 13 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party and 15 MPs from the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 52nd amendment, in the same text, was filed by 13 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party Group and 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 53rd amendment, in the same text, was filed by 13 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party Group and 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 53rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Income Tax, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – no one, with abstention – six, voted six Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted six MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 15 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the Democratic Party group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted six MPs for – 139. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 140, no one, abstentioned - one, voted seven MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-14-0.u28787	15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 1st amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 2nd amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 3rd amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 4th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 6th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 7th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 8th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 9th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 10th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 12th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 13th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 14th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the Democratic Party group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 16th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 17th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 18th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 19th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 20th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 21st amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 22nd amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 23rd amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 24th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted by 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 26th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th amendment was submitted by 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 28th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 29th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 30th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 31st amendment, in the same text, 15 MPs from the Democratic Party group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the amendment of 33rd. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 34th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 35th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 36th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 37th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 38th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 39th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 40th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party group submitted to the 41st amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 42nd amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 44th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 45th Amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 46th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 47th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 48th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 49th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 50th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 51st amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 52nd Amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 53rd amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 54th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 55th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 56th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 57th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 58th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 59th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 60th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 61st amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 62nd amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6rd Amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 64th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 65th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 66th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 67th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 68th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 69th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 70th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 71st amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the amendment of the 72nd. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 72nd amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandra Tomic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two against them. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the amendment of the 73rd. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 74th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 75th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 76th Amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 77th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 78th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 79th amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139 out of the total 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Republic Administrative Taxes. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Public Property I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Property, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, of the total 146 MPs present. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-14-0.u28788	15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 1st amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, 15 MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 2nd amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. On Article 3 of the amendment, 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 4 of the amendment in the same text, 15 MPs from the DS parliamentary group and five MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club, 15 MPs from the DS parliamentary group and five MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group and five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 12 by 15 of the MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 14 by 15 of the MPs of the DS Group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On the 16th amendment, in the same text, 15 MPs from the DS parliamentary group and five MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 17th Amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group and five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 19th Amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted the amendment to Article 19. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 135, against – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Public Property Act, in general. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for - 138, against - no one. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Property. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on settlement deadlines in commercial transactions, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for - 138, against - no one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. On the 11th amendment, in the same text, 15 MPs from the DS parliamentary group and five MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group and five MPs of the SDS, NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group and five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 4th of the amendment, in the same text, 15 MPs from the DS parliamentary group and five MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 5 of the amendment, in the same text, 15 MPs from the DS parliamentary group and five MPs from the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 6 of the amendment, in the same text, 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group and five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group and five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group and five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on settlement deadlines in commercial transactions, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 135, against – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the deadlines for the settlement of monetary liabilities in commercial transactions. I'm putting a vote on a bill to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 137, no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Aleksandar Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Petar Jojic and Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Milorad Mircic, Ruzica Nikolic and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Sreto Peric, Tomislav Ljubenovic and Marina Ristic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Bozidar Delic and Tomislav Ljubenovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 3 submitted by the MPs Milorad Mircic, Miljan Damjanovic and Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 4 tabled by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to the 6th vote submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 13 tabled by Members of the People's Parliaments Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to article 14 tabled by the MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I am putting the amendments to the vote on Article 15 submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to the 19th vote submitted by the MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Ruzica Nikolic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 20 tabled by the MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 22 tabled by the MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 23 tabled by the MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Bozidar Delic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I'm putting the bill on the bill to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 versus – no one, abstentioned – one. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, mostly votes. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, v – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I put the amendments to Article 1 to be voted by the MPs of the People's Republic of Rade, Aleksandra Belačić and Zoran Krasic together. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I would like to put the amendments to Article 2 together by MPs Zoran Krasic, Sreto Peric and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 4 which were jointly submitted by the MPs Natasa Jovanovic, Zoran Krasic and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 8 together submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Miljan Damjanovic and Zoran Krasic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I am putting the amendments to article 14, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarovic and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put the amendments to Article 15, which were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Milorad Mircic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – no one with abstentions is available. I find that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on restricting the availability of property in order to prevent terrorism has been adopted by the majority of votes. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the unpaid foreign savings of citizens laid down by banks whose head office is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, has accepted the bill, in principle. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, MP Dejan Sulkic and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the regulation of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the unpaid foreign savings of citizens laid down by banks whose head office is in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all MPs, adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Public Debt of the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the unpaid foreign savings of citizens laid down by banks whose headquarters is located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and their branches in the territories of the former republics of the SFRY. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (A loan for development policies in the field of risk management from natural disasters with the option of delayed withdrawal of funds) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Programme to improve the efficiency and sustainability of infrastructure) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144 against – one with abstention – there is no. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Nations Office for Project Services concerning the opening of the United Nations Office for Project Services in Belgrade, the Republic of Serbia, as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, no one with abstentions is available. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on bankruptcy, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144, against – no one, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-14-0.u28789	The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by four MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has no one to vote against, 147 of the Messengers of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment, in the same text, four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 145 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Together, MPs Gorica Gajic, Dejan Šulkic and Milan Lapcevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 145 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Four MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dejan Šulkic and Milan Lapcevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by four MPs to the Serbian Radical Party group. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 7 of the amendment, in the same text, four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by four MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 9th Amendment, in the same text, was tabled by four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 10th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th amendment, in the same text, was submitted by four MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 12 of the amendment, in the same text, four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 13th of the amendment, in the same text, four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 14th of the amendment, in the same text, four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 15 of the amendment, in the same text, four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Dear Members of the People, reminders are working, according to Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have extended the time of work of the National Assembly. The National Assembly will work today after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On Article 18 of the amendment, in the same text, four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendment, in the same text, was submitted by four MPs of the Serbian Radical Party group and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On the 22nd amendment in the same text, the MPs together, Gorica Gajic, Dejan Suklic and Milan Lapčević, and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted. I put the amendments to the vote: no one against the abstentions has voted 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 23rd amendment. I put the amendments to the vote: no one against the abstentions has voted 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 24 of the amendment in the same text, four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted. I put the amendments to the vote: no one against the abstentions has voted 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 25 of the amendment in the same text, four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted. I put the amendments to the vote: no one against the abstentions has voted 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 26 of the amendment in the same text, four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted. I put the amendments to the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 27th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 28th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 29 of the amendment in the same text, four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted. I put the amendments to the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 30th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 31st amendment. I put the amendments to the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 32nd amendment. I put the amendments to the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 33rd amendment. I put the amendments to the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 34 of the amendment in the same text, four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted. I put the amendments to the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 35th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 36th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dejan Šulkic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 36th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 37th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 38th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 39th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 40th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 41st amendment in the same text, the MPs together, Gorica Gajic, Dejan Suklic and Milan Lapcevic, and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted. I put the amendments to the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 42nd amendment. I put the amendments to the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 43rd amendment. I put the amendments to the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 44th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote: no one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 45th amendment. I put the amendments to the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 46 of the amendment in the same text, four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted. I put the amendments to the vote: no one, against the abstentions, voted 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's group, the People's Party, submitted to the 47th amendment in the same text. I put the amendments to the vote: no one against the abstentions has voted 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 48th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 143. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 49th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 143. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th Amendment, in the same text, was tabled by four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 143. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 51st amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 52nd amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 53rd amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 54th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 55th Amendment, in the same text, was tabled by four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 56th Amendment, in the same text, was tabled by four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the Serbian Radical Party and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 57th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 58 of the amendment, in the same text, four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party group and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 59th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 60th amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party's parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 61st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs from the Serbian Radical Party and five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 62nd amendment, in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 63rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 64th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 65th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 145. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to Article 66 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 145. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 67th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 145. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on bankruptcy, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, no one, abstentioned – one, voted eight out of the 146 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Bank of Ireland. We move to the next item of the agenda – Proposal for a FINISH SUPPORT OF THE FAMILY WITH DECCOM Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on financial support for the family with children in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote seven out of the 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. Four MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 145. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one with abstention – has voted 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 145. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was tabled by five MPs from the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 5th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 7th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic - Đuričić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 11 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 12th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Milena Bicanin and together by Ljupka Mihajlovska, Tatjana Macura and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by four MPs from the MP group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 13th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 16th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by national envoy Dr Ana Stevanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 141 people's messengers did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 17th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs were submitted to the 17th amendment by the Parliament group of Independent Members' Clubs. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ljupka Mihajlovski, Tatjana Macura and Branka Stamenkovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the parliamentary group submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against those who have been held back, has ever voted 142 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted, was 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Mr Goran Chabradi has submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Four MPs of the parliamentary group had submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Zaric Kovacevic and Aleksandar Markovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic and Olivera Pesic submitted to the 20th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention, for one thing, who has not been voted by 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 21st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 22nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has ever been able to vote. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of Parliament Zoran Bojanic and Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić jointly submitted the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Parliamentarians Zoran Krasic, Aleksandra Belačić and Vjerica Radet together submitted the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 26th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 26th Amendment was submitted by five MPs to the Parliament group of the Independent Members' Club. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 30th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 33rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 39th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 142 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic and Olivera Pesic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not been voted by 141 MPs. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 47th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 142 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 48th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 142 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 49th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 142 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 53rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 142 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 142 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 54th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 142 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. After we have concluded our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on financial support for a family with children in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, no one, with abstentions, voted two MPs, of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on financial support for the family with children. We move to the 22nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF WORK LAW Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – no one, with abstentions, voted three MPs, of the total of 144 MPs present. It finds that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandra Belačić and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MPs Dubravko Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Aleksandar Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 143 Messengers have not voted. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party and 13 MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 144 Messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 144 Messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 144 Messengers. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Tomislav Ljubenovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 144 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 13 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 144 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 7th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 144 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Momcilo Mandic and Vjerica Radet and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 144 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 144 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, no one, with abstentions, voted five MPs, of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Labour Act. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Insurance Act in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, no one, with abstentions, voted five MPs, of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 144 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MPs Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 144 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 144 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 144 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 144 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 144 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and 15 MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 144 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic, five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, People's Party and 15 MPs from the Democratic Party. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 144 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 144 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 144 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandra Belačić and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 144 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 144 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom the abstentions are, who has not been voted by 144 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Insurance Act in the event of unemployment, as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted five MPs, of the total 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Employment Act, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 140, no one, with abstentions – one, voted four MPs, of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 145 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MPs Dubravko Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric together submitted the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 145 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, Zoran Krasic and Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 145 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Aleksandar Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. 145 Messengers have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Seselj and Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions 145 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Milorad Mircic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions 145 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions 145 of the Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Sreto Peric and Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions of 145 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Tomislav Ljubenović and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one has voted against the abstentions. 145 MPs have voted. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Employment Act, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 versus – no one, with abstentions, has voted four MPs, of the total 145 present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Foreign Employment Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-12-14-0.u28790	We move to the 25th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put the draft law on public service employees, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted five, of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 5th Amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapcevic and Dejan Šulkic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 15 MPs of the DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 15th Amendment were submitted together by MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic and 15 MPs of the DS group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to the 15th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were submitted together by MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic, 15 MPs from the DS parliamentary group and seven MPs from the Dveri group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 29th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic, 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group and seven MPs of the Dveri group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, is a self-sufficient one. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 38th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 40th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 41st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandar Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 41st Amendment was submitted to the same text by 15 MPs of the DS group and together by MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri Group have submitted to the 41st Amendment I am putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 51st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, against whom there is no one with abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 53rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 58th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 66th Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Petar Jojic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 69th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 71st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7rd Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabradi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 75th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 75th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 77th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandra Belačić and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 77th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 77th amendment, in the same text, the MPs together, Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic, seven MPs of the Dveri group and 15 MPs of the DS. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 85th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabradi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 87th Amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabradi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to Article 92 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Goran Chabradi to Article 92. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 94th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 99th Amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 100th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 101st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 109 of the amendment, 15 MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri MPs submitted to Amendment 109. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Sulkic submitted the amendment together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 110th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Milorad Mircic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Together, MPs Gorica Gajic, Milan Lapčević and Dejan Šulkic and 15 MPs of the DS group submitted to Article 121 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Seven MPs from the Dveri group submitted to Article 121 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to Article 122 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Dubravko Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic submitted the amendment to Article 124. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to Article 132 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to Article 133 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 134th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 140th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party, the People's Party, submitted to the 141st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Aleksandar Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 143rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Miljan Damjanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to Article 145 of the amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party, submitted to Article 146 of the amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 151st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 153rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 155th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party Group, the People's Party. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 157th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ruzica Nikolic and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 163rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Momcilo Mandic and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the draft law on public service employees in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, v – one, with abstention – there is no vote, not one, of a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on public service employees. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted three of the 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The People's MPs Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 2nd amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Marina Ristic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Vjerica Radet. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Radet. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandra Belačić and Vjerica Radet. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Vjerica Radeta. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that no amendment has been accepted. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, against – one, with abstention – there is no, no, no, three, of a total of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on employees in autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft bill on the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of the autonomous province and the unit of local self-government, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – one, the abstention – there is no, there is no vote of three, of a total of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The People's MPs Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandra Belačić and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Aleksandra Belačić and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 15th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Aleksandar Seselj. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Miljan Damjanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. On the 17th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic and Bozidar Delic, together with Vjerica Radeta and Natasa Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 18th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Tomislav Ljubenović and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted the amendment to Article 19. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 19th Amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 20th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Momcilo Mandic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 21st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlovic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ruzica Nikolic and Verica Radeta. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 23rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 23rd Amendment was submitted by 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. National MPs Vjerica Radeta, Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović and Zoran Krasic together submitted the 24th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic Marina Ristic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has any abstention. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nikola Savic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 28th Amendment were submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Miroslava Stankovic Đuričić. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. 15 MPs of the DS parliamentary group submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Filip Stojanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 30th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Miljan Damjanovic and Vjerica Radet and five MPs of the SDS, NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 32nd and of the 32nd Amendment, five MPs of the SDS, the NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 33rd Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandra Belačić and Vjerica Radet. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members of the 34th and of the 34th Amendment, 15 MPs of the DS Parliamentary Group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Natasa Jovanovic and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs from the SDS, the NS, submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At the title above Articles 35 and 35 of the amendment, 15 MPs of the DS Group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 35th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Krasic, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Vjerica Radet and five MPs of the SDS, NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 36th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ruzica Nikolic and Zoran Krasic and five MPs of the SDS, NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic submitted together to the 37th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Five MPs of the SDS parliamentary group, the NS, submitted the amendment to Article 37. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 38th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted jointly by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Dubravko Bojic and five MPs of the SDS, NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 40th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Petar Jojic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 42nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I am putting to the vote the draft bill on the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of the autonomous province and the unit of local self-government, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, no one, abstentioned – one, voted two out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of the autonomous province and the unit of local self-government. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the public sector wage system. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, no one, with abstentions, voted three out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Natasa Jovanovic and Zoran Krasic, five MPs from the SDS, NS and 15 MPs from the DS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Dubravko Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Zoran Krasic and five MPs of the SDS, NS. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasic and Ruzica Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Vjerica Radeta, Ljiljana Mihajlović and Zoran Krasic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Aleksandar Seselj and Vjerica Radet and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment, in the same text, were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic and Vjerica Radet and five MPs of the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Members of the 7th Amendment are joint MPs Zoran Krasic, Sreto Peric and Vjerica Radeta. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Sector Payments System. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, against – no one, with abstention – has voted, not two, of the 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Payment System of Public Sector Employees. I put the draft law amending the law on the regulation of courts, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – one, with abstention – there are no, no two votes, of a total of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision by amendment. Five MPs of the Social Democratic Party parliamentary group, the People's Party, submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Sulkic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. 15 MPs from the Democratic Party's parliamentary group submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. Five MPs from the Social Democratic Party group, the People's Party, submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted the amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the motion to vote on the amendment of the law on the regulation of courts, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, against – one, the abstention – there is no, no vote – one, of the 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending the Law on the Regulation of Courts. I put to the vote a proposal for authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 48. The law of execution and security, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, against – no one, abstention – one, has voted – one, of the 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for authentic interpretation. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the electronic media regulatory body for 2017, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, against – no one, abstention – one, has voted – one, of the 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP of the People's Parliament that the infringement was committed, may require, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without any further consideration, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session held on 6 December 2017 at 1856, pointed to injuries of members 103 and 116. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Saša Radulovic, at a session on 8 December 2017, at 10.19 p.m., pointed to injuries of members 105 and 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, at a session on 8 December 2017, at 10.58 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 8 December 2017, at 12.15 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 32. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Saša Radulovic, at a session on 8 December 2017, at 12.20 p.m., pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Saša Radulovic, at a session on 8 December 2017, at 1226 hours, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov's National MP, at a session on 8 December 2017, at 12.55 p.m., pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Milorad Mircic, at a session on 8 December 2017, at 13.48 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 8 December 2017, at 13.54 p.m., pointed to injuries of members 27, 28, 32 and 98. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Saša Radulovic, at a session on 11 December 2017, at 11.23 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 11 December 2017, at 13 hours and three minutes, pointed to injuries. 104 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Maja Vidinović, at a session on 11 December 2017, at 16 hours and 17 minutes, pointed to injuries. 27th and 107th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 11 December 2017, at 16 hours and 23 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 11 December 2017, at 17 hours and 33 minutes, pointed to injuries. 27th and 108th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, at a session on 11 December 2017, at 17 hours and 44 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether the said Ruler has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Alexander Chabrai, at a session on 11 December 2017, at 18 hours and 33 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 12 December 2017, at 11 o'clock and 55 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, at a session on 12 December 2017, at 11 o'clock and 57 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask that the National Assembly decide whether the said Ruler has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dejan Nikolic, at a session on 12 December 2017 at 12 o'clock and three minutes, pointed to injuries. 27, 106 and 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Marko Djurisic, at a session on 12 December 2017, at 12 hours and 13 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 12 December 2017, at 12 o'clock and 31 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 12 December 2017, at 12 hours and 34 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it has not been injured by the said Rule of Procedure. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, at a session on 12 December 2017, at 12 hours and 36 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 12 December 2017, at 16 hours and 42 minutes, pointed to a breach of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 13 December 2017, at 10 o'clock and 40 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 13 December 2017, at 11 o'clock and 24 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marinika Tepic, at a session on 13 December 2017, at 11 o'clock and 34 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103(4). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 13 December 2017, at 11 o'clock and 35 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 13 December 2017, at 11 o'clock and 39 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, at a session on 13 December 2017, at 11 o'clock and 51 minutes, pointed to injuries. 161, 162 and 116. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Miljan Damjanovic, at a session on 13 December 2017, at 11 o'clock and 52 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vjerica Radeta, at a session on 13 December 2017, at 11 o'clock and 54 minutes, pointed to injuries. 27 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Miljan Damjanovic, at a session on 13 December 2017, at 12 hours and two minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Miroslav Aleksic, at a session on 13 December 2017, at 12 hours and 24 minutes, pointed to injuries. 108th and 27th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 13 December 2017, at 12 hours and 30 minutes, pointed to injuries. 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who is abstentioned. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 13 December 2017, at 12 hours and 58 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Saša Radulovic, at a session on 13 December 2017, at 19 hours and 15 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against those who are abstentions. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the fifth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017.
