ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18751	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 110 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We move on to requesting information and explanations, based on Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Predrag Jelenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18752	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have two questions for the Department of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure. The first question - is there a plan and when the protective panels will be placed, i.e. the wall of noise next to the village of Komren on the highway, i.e. the part of the highway to Sofia? In this part of the eastern leg of Corridor 10, the highway passes through the part of the town of Nis, i.e. the township of the Red Cross and the intersection, i.e. divides the village Komren into two parts. This situation has been on the ground for ten years now, and therefore, on behalf of the citizens of Nis, I am asking you for an emergency setting, if possible, of the mentionable plates for security and all other reasons. Also, I note that protective panels need to be placed on the highway three to five kilometers away. Second question. How it is in the recently adopted plan, i.e. The national public railway infrastructure programme mentioned and the development of the tourism railway by connecting the Sarganska 8th through the Kremna with the normal Belgrade-Bar track track, I ask the question is there still somewhere in Serbia? In particular, are there technical conditions and accompanying infrastructure, in the end some possibility of realising such a tourist railway direction Nis-Niška Banja-Sićevačka gorge? For the sake of the public, I would like to point out that, in addition to the tourist importance and health potential of Niška Banja, the Sićevačka clistura nature park, which has been naturally well classified in the second category of protection and is situated on the route from the international importance of Nis-Sofia-Istambul. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18754	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Goran Pekarski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18755	Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, I wanted to ask two questions, one question to the agriculture, forestry and water industry, Minister Nedimovic, and the other to the health minister, Mr Loncar. The first question for the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry is, can regulations and criteria be reviewed regarding the quality of foods used by Serbian citizens, which are imported or produced by foreign companies working on our territory, and even by companies that are domestic producers? It is generally known that between EU Member States, the quality of food, i.e. products in the same package, differs from country to country, so that, although the EU is trying to have common standardisation and common quality, there are major deviations. It is no wonder, then, that some of the foods exported from the EU to Serbia are very different, especially that some of the things in quality are not prohibited with us and are allowed for human use. As the best indicator of such a thing was the Czech Minister of Agriculture who made a number of trials and took a random 21 product used in catering and compared it with the products used in Germany, France, Slovakia and Hungary. He found that out of 21 products only three products are the same as in the Czech Republic. The Slovak prime minister made another step, so he threatened the European Commission with introducing an embargo on foods in the same packaging and not the same quality. When there's that difference, then it's no wonder that some of the things that come to us contain substances like some of the additives that they're banned from, and we're still allowed. I'd like one of our executives to have this courage, so I'd like him to do some proper rehearsals and try to compare the quality of the food in our home, and the quality in the EU where they come from. So we came up with that question I was going to ask, and it's specifically about the preservative of the E-407 ELM, i.e. carogen. It's very difficult to pronounce, but it's very easy to swallow. I wonder if we can re-evaluate the harmfulness of this additive? Carogenic is genotoxic by studies, which means it's performed at the level of the mutation gene, even to the second and third knees. Otherwise, the IARC tumor research agency, based in Lyon, Paris, gave him a 2B tumor challenger mark, which means he's a dangerous challenger that causes problems in the digestive tract, causes colon cancer and is one of the cause of the chronic disease. We have it in meat processing of all kinds, in creams and chocolates. What's most interesting, in this period right now, this hot period when the most ice cream is used, it's the most in those ice creams that are now used and most children, because it's used as a sweetener because it's half-saharin, and it's used as a clotter, or to make density, consistency of the product. The second question I wanted to ask Minister Lonchar. That's a little bit more information, but since he's informed about the event itself, so I just wanted to ask him if something had taken place and as far as it came, because in this age of fighting malignant diseases, when he's trying to prevent and reduce the number of patients, we have a situation of doing big things on one side, and on the other hand they're creating at one lower level small gods and taking things into their own hands and simply preventing one good part of the population from being treated inadequately. To this example is the House of Health of Grock and the mammographer that was obtained by the Japanese embassy six years ago. In six years, the mammographer was not put into effect and 50,000 women from the territory of the municipality of Grocko were denied for preventive treatment, i.e. detection of malignancies in the early stages.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18757	Thank you, fellow Bakery. The word has a national MP, Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18758	Thank you. Please, if you could shut up. Thank you. A question for the former Prime Minister and the current Serbian President, Alexander Vukic. This is the 24th time we have asked questions from the congregation speaker and have not yet received any answers. So the first question is – when are we going to get answers to the questions previously asked? The second question is – when will it stop breaking the Constitution, by resigning as SNS president and leaving the conflict of interest in which it is currently in place, since the constitution requires that it be the president of all citizens, not just members of the SNS?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18764	Here, I'll make it up to you for a minute anyway. Go on. Here you go, colleague Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18765	During the regular autumn session last year, the Labour Act was broken countless times. I can't right now. Please, these two minutes later.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18766	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm really asking for a little silence so we can hear the speakers. Otherwise, we're going to have to take a break from Article 112 and make an order. I beg your silence, for I am not able to hear the speaker, either. Mrs. Stamenkovic, please report again, you have two minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18767	Can I have a word later?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18768	No, you're not able to get a word later, you can get two minutes and use it now. Sign up, Mrs. Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18769	Thank you. So during the regular autumn session last year, the Labour Act was broken countless times here in the National Assembly. The labour law says a worker can't work for more than 12 hours a day. Since 64 working days during the regular autumn session, employees of the restaurant and the National Assembly's buffet, who are otherwise employed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia's Joint Affairs Office, have worked 25 days longer than 12 hours a day. Out of 13 working weeks, over nine weeks, they worked more than 48 hours a week, as much as the law prescribes. Even if the Agency for Joint Affairs organises their work by redistributing the work, the law again does not allow employees to work for more than 60 hours a week. Workers at the assembly buffet and restaurant during the regular autumn session for more than 60 hours worked for three consecutive working weeks in December. In fact, on December 27th, they came to work at 7:30 in the morning, and they left here on December 28th at 3:30 p.m. That's how they put 32 hours in the workplace. This is due to the fact that the chairman, Gojkovic, is not organising the work of the Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but is breaking it again. To organise work in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this violation of the Labour Act would not occur. Since our appeals have so far failed to produce fruit, that she is sticking to the Rules of Procedure, this time I appeal to Minister Djordjevic to impose his authority to protect these workers, to return their work within the framework of the Labour Act, to stop breaking the Law on Labour in the National Assembly, because the chairman Gojkovic will not do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18770	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18771	Thank you, Chairman. I have two questions. One question for the Ministry of Justice and a conditional statement for the Ministry of Finance, which is – at which stage is the return process of the Vojvodine Development Bank of three million euros, which was credited to the company "TIV Komerc", owned by Mr Rodic in 2008, which is otherwise secured by a mortgage. I am interested in this for one simple reason to see how effective our organs are in that part and how far this process has arrived and to see if these funds were adequately provided when this loan was granted. My second question concerns the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, and it is about whether and what they are going to do about publishing the death certificate on which the name and character of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, is against the persons left behind and published on social networks, because I believe that this barbaric act is also a serious crime and I expect the authorities of the Ministry of Justice to be very effective, because if it happens to the President of the Republic, then it can happen to each of us tomorrow. No matter how unserious it may sometimes sound to someone, but it's absolutely disturbing, it's threatening, to have anyone show up on something like that. Unless we are able to protect the President of the Republic from such criminal acts, what remains for us ordinary citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I would also remind myself that we did not get an MP's response as to whether and what measures were taken against persons who threatened social networks in various ways, Mr Risticevic, Vukicevic and the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18773	I thank my colleague Komlenski. The word has a national emissary Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18774	A question for Minister Vujovic, Ministry of Finance. The new VAT-recording Regulation to be applied from 1.11.2018, a great deception. It was adopted on the basis of amendments to the VAT Act of October 2015. In the written explanation of the Ministry of Finance, which was given to MPs in due time, it states that the application of this law will not create economic costs, especially for small and medium-sized legal persons, and that it does not need to be explained whether the positive consequences of the adoption of the law justify the costs that it will generate. However, according to a modest estimate, the new VAT-recording regulation creates additional economic costs, which I assume is also known to the finance minister, at least 18.5m euros. Accordingly, the Ministry of Finance should answer the question – is the regulation in line with EU rules, so many VAT items not recorded in any EU member state? Are the positive consequences of lawmaking such that they justify the costs that he will generate? Why has no serious impact analysis been carried out and only afterwards asked MPs to make a statement about the proposal for a Regulation? A comprehensive issue for the prime minister, all ministers in the government, of course the unforgiving president of Serbia, as the progenitor of the idea of "Belgrade on Water". I quote Dragoljub Bakic, architect and member of the Serbia Academy of Architecture "Belgrade on Water" is a place where catastrophic urban, architectural, traffic, infrastructure, environmental, socio-political, sociological and economic mistakes appear. I'm asking my colleagues for a little parliamentary bonton. Why was it necessary for this project to abolish the general urban plan, which is valid until 2021, which refers to Belgrade's central zone and predicts that Belgrade's main centre is being formed on the left bank and on the right bank of the Sava River? Has this coast been preserved since the end of World War II? Why was it necessary, in addition to 2,500 Belgrade architects, to somehow bring a model for solutions that were not at the level of mediocre student work, which is for the Urbanist Institute to produce from this model a radical spatial plan for special purposes, on which there were 2,000 objections that were all rejected. Why the extratoriality on land of more than 100 hectares, free rent per 100 years, free primary infrastructure to the border of the complex, which is normally charged from 500 to 550 euros per square metre to other investors in the area. They repeat 500 to 550 euros per square metre. Why is there not a master plan under which every real urban project is built, but it gives the contractor the right by contract to build whatever he wants, wherever he wants and whenever he wants, in a period of 30 years, and when he does so, our urban services will subsequently translate it into plans. Why, at the same time, Serbia commits itself to building a complete infrastructure by December 2019, which is otherwise impossible. This includes, among other things, the completion of a sewer blocker from which half of it has been done for the last 40 years. The end of the wastewater treatment plant in Velika Selo, the construction of the first line of the metro, the construction of a tunnel beneath the Terrace reef from the Savaweave to Dorcool. Building four railway stations in downtown Belgrade, expanding and protecting the water drive in Maksa. Enough questions and I'll settle for a united response procedure. Question for Minister Goran Trivan, Ministry of Environmental Protection. Only 15km from downtown Belgrade, not far from Pupun's bridge is Beljarica's true oasis of nature called Belgrade Amazonia. There are many species of protected birds, completely one special climate and the area is part of an ecological network of international importance. The Nature Protection Institute has proposed to protect this area, however, it envisions building a new port of Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18776	I thank Mrs. Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18777	Can I just ask a question?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18778	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18779	I ask Mr. Trivan, what will he do as the first man of the Ministry of Environmental Protection on this matter, will he make sure that this space is protected and why, as the city's secretary for environmental protection, he allowed the issue of the Beljarica to be removed from the agenda? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18780	The word has a folk letter, Mr. Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18781	Thank you, Vice President. I ask Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic, who is in charge of the co-operation protocols between the Social Labour Centre and the persons in charge of preventing violence against women? Given that he is in charge, that his job is to coordinate the work of the ministry, so I ask again who is responsible for the fact that the protocols are not respected? So, I'm interested in the name and last name of the person in charge of it? There's been a lot of mutual responsibility. Enough is enough for ministers to be horrified by what's happening to them and what's happened to them? It is their job to organise these protocols and my repeated question to Minister Stefanovic, whom we will not give up in the DS, is – What is the name and last name of the person in charge of the co-operation protocols between the Centre for Social Labour and persons in charge of preventing violence and fighting violence against women in the Serbian Republic? In the last ten days, two women were killed just because they were women. They were killed in controlled conditions. They were killed in front of those whose job it is to protect them and killed in a way that requires the personal responsibility of many in this country. That's why the way this started to work out, that one or two social workers would be held accountable, certainly not to satisfy anyone. It is common knowledge that victims of violence are found in a vicious circle in which, of course, violent people feel very secure. One way to torture these victims is precisely to demonstrate and their great powers, very often by calling on friends in high places, political, family, friendly, godfatherly, business relationships with those in positions. That is why the next question I will ask Minister Stefanovic is probably the most important question he will have to answer in life. This is a question – what are his private, personal, business, friendly or political ties to a family in which two weeks ago, a marriage partner in the social work center killed the mother of three children? To this question, Minister Stefanovic is obliged to respond to the citizens because, by one, he has no right to have neither friends nor business, nor political, or private ties with anyone in the social work centre who kills his former partner and mother of three children. The second question to him is – is he ready to be excluded from the investigation that will be conducted, which should answer two extremely important questions. First, what happened at the welfare center when the mother of three children was killed and killed by her former partner, already convicted of domestic violence. Two -- what are the circumstances under which the killer was found dead? These are two questions to which the investigation must be answered and therefore it is crucial that Nebojsa Stefanovic exempt himself from the investigation, due to a possible conflict of interest in which he is located.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18784	The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18785	The Honorable Chairman, the respected citizens of Serbia, I suppose that out of the public's great interest to ask the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Maja Gojkovic, how could this have happened that, for almost a year since Parliament's Dveri Group began to seek, which, by Rule 209 and 210, has the right, special sessions on the topic, not scheduled a single special session on the topic? Namely, Article 9. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly make it clear that the President of the National Assembly, at least once a month, determines the day when individual ministers in the government will answer parliamentary questions on a topic of date. Dear Chairman, we have been disabled from basic business mechanisms so that we can set up any topic at the House of National Assembly. Believe it or not, the respected citizens of Serbia, in a year's time, have been convened by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there has been no debate in this House on a single topic. Only the Dveri Parliamentary Group has asked 10 such questions, i.e. the topic, and so far we have had to have all 10 on the agenda for this year, because according to the Rules of Procedure, at least once a month the president of the Assembly has to call for such a session and must ensure the presence of ministers who will answer parliamentary questions. This is what 10 topics have been set up so far: the security and economic and social situation in Serbia regarding the migrant crisis -- has never been found on the agenda; international pressures on the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia regarding the negotiations and the situation in Kosovo and Metohija -- never been found on the agenda; unresolved security problems related to foreign intelligence agents, assassinations of high-ranking state officials -- never found themselves on the agenda; the threat of the economic, food and health security of Serbian citizens against the law of import and the transport of genetically modified food and seed -- has never been found on the agenda; the privileged long-term lease in Serbia by the German meat industry "Tenis" – has never been found on the agenda; Serbia and NATO's relations within which we would certainly be asking the Minister of the military, and I ask him to do so much at the Russian border at the time. Serbia has never been against Russia in its history, and today we send our soldiers to NATO military exercises at the very borders with Russia. The seventh point would be – the sale of agricultural land to foreign citizens from 1 September 2017 – was never on the agenda, and we are a month away from the application of this disastrous decision of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union. Under eight -- the suspension of a temporary suspension of compulsory military service, here, and Minister Vulin mentions something about it these days. Furthermore, non-application and endangerment of Cyrillic as the official letter of the Republic of Serbia and the problem of white plague, the growth of mortality and emigration of the working-age population from Serbia. Ten more than current topics. It is the responsibility of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to put them on the agenda, to invite ministers, to have the right as MPs to ask questions. When was the last time in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia last Thursday of the month, when is the government coming to answer parliamentary questions? When did the ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia submit their three-month work reports and come to the meetings of the competent assembly committees to answer for their work? That is the essence of what the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Maja Gojkovic, is avoiding. It avoids the National Assembly playing one of its most important roles, which is a control-control role over the work of the executive government, control of the government's work, control of the work of ministers. There is no government control here, and there is no control over the work of ministers, because ministers will not submit a report on work, the government will not come to answer MPs' questions, the president of the assembly will not call special sessions on the topic. Here, basic parliamentaryism, basic democracy and basic freedom of speech have been questioned. Today you want to abolish the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and not discuss a single topic here, but only on the topics that you impose as the ruling majority, that the opposition does not have the right to impose a single topic for a year's work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18786	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18787	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, I question Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and the President of the Republic, Aleksandr Vukic, and it concerns exports of Fijat's cars to the Russian market. So, since the arrival of the SNS in power, since 2012, it has been five years and you have entered the sixth year, and Serbia and its citizens are still paying the price of unfulfilled promises and inability to run the state in the right way. We can see that today on many examples, and one of them is exactly “Fiat, ” which is current in previous days. I would just like to ask a question in line with the developments in the car industry "Fiat" in Serbia. According to its established practice in 2013, Prime Minister Vukic, then the first prime minister of the government, promised that Serbia, or Fiat, would export 10,000 Fiat's cars to the Russian market, without customs. I will quote a statement: "Fiat" cars Serbia will carry out in Russia by the end of the year the first contingent of 10,000 new "Fiata 500 L" models produced by the factory in Kragujevac. We consider that quota only at the beginning and we hope to increase it in the future. “ The 2013 statement, of course, to Prime Minister Vukic, did not mind every year repeating that statement, even on May 25th of this year, in a campaign for the president of the Republic of Serbia, when Kragujevac attended the promotion of a new re-scheduled "Fiyata 500 L" model, when he happily spoke about the positive results of the Serbian economy created by "Fiyat", that the company's business is 3% of Serbia's gross social product and almost 8% of the total exports of the Republic of Serbia. He urged citizens then to buy Fiat's cars, saying he expects the issue of exports to the Russian market to be resolved before the end of this year. We're in 2017 today. So, since 2013, every year we listen to the same promise, if that promise was fulfilled, we probably wouldn't have street workers today and workers shouldn't warn the state that domestic business should be done, and that we should talk to serious companies like "Fiyat". Since there was no dialogue between the leadership and the government of the Republic of Serbia, workers had to go out on their own and force the current leadership of the Republic of Serbia, which apparently in previous years, instead of agreeing co-operation and development with investors, was busy organising elections every year and election campaigns and spent more than six months on elections and money and time each year, and, in parallel, nothing happened to create conditions for economic development in Serbia. Also, Mr Putin said there was this possibility in 2014. And when he visited Serbia, he had a question as to why there is no such thing as exports to Russia, and what has helped Vladimir Putin change his mind and what is Alexander Vukic's role in this? In parallel with this, ministers and prime minister make some statements that are not responsible, as Mrs Brnabic said political interests and someone's serious intention behind the Fiat strike, or Mr Djordjevic, who said that "Fijata" workers should actually show little more love for Serbia. I think they're irresponsible with their statements, not workers who are just looking for better working conditions. Also, economic policy has proved to be very devastating despite having problems with the Fiat, not talking about all those enterprises that this government has shut down for the last five years, starting with "The First Five-year-old", "FAP" Pryboa, "IMT", "14." October” and all other factories. The second question concerns Prime Minister Vukic, and this is about the controversy that is followed by every one of his visits to America, where he went there to file some reports and now we see documents that have come out in public, writing certain congressmen, individual ones, to answer some questions he has not answered. Here is one of these questions that should be answered to the citizens of Serbia, not to anyone in the US administration, a report that a small group of people led by President Andrej Vukic and four of his close friends Nikola Petrovic, Zvonko Veseinovic, Slaviš Kokez and Nenad Kovac continue to manage all infrastructure and public projects. I quoted what President Vukic should say to the citizens of Serbia, not to anyone at the US Embassy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18789	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18790	In front of the SRS parliamentary group, I would like to ask Mr. Vulin and Serbian Army Commander-in-Office Aleksandr Vukic, who is also the president of Serbia. What are these reasons that have decided to include the Serbian Army in NATO Pact exercises held between July 17th and 22nd in the territory of Bulgaria, Romania and Hungary? Is this part of military co-operation in the period when we are witnessing that NATO forces are focusing on the borders of the Russian Federation, when specifically for these military exercises on Romania's territory, NATO's chief commanding force Ben Hodges, the general of NATO forces in Europe, says exercises in Romania are direct exercises directed against the Russian Federation? Is the reason for such a decision may also be the change in the turn of the policy that the government is running in recent times, and it is reflected in the fact that the real visit of the newly elected Serbian president is just visiting America? Is there anything new going on in implementing the ruling coalition's policy when it leaves so-called. The position of neutrality, the position of sitting on two chairs, and turning to one chair, a chair that marks the dominant of American politics? Is there any reason in the fact that in this way, once again, who knows which way to reach NATO forces and America, after that shameful inspection in Nis, carried out by the US Embassy? Nothing could have been more embarrassing than just participating in such exercises, where I am General NATO's Pact says these are the preparations for a possible attack on the Russian Federation. Perhaps that is the reason in the fact that the interview with the vice president of the United States carried out by the president of Serbia remains a secret to the public of Serbia. Maybe there's a reason. In any case, we need to get a clear answer not in terms of showing how much progress we've made when it comes to our army's readiness or how good we are, or how much better than members of the NATO Pact. It's already a used phrase that doesn't satisfy anyone in this Serbia, but to be clear, if it's a turn in the policy run by this country's government, then to know that citizens know what is in the future, that we don't hope for anything that would be a favor from the Russian Federation, because we've been witnessing that we've been waiting here for months to deliver arms and funds to the Army of Serbia by the Russian Federation. How can we now interpret that the Army of Serbia is engaged in such exercises, and on the other hand we expect Russia to help us strengthen the technical and tactical army of Serbia under very favourable conditions? We in the SRS simply want an answer from both the commander-in-chief and the defence minister. What I'd like to ask as a second question is a question relating to the NBS, or governor of the NBS. What means, with the money paid by the Audi A8 passenger vehicle blinded for the needs of the NBS, reportedly for the transport of the governor of the NBS, amounting to 500 000 euros, when Kragujevac workers strike, when in "Gosa" workers decide to strike hunger, when in Serbia, there is no poverty, no poverty? What money and whose money is funded by this luxury NBS? After the foot massage, here's another big expense, the great adventure of the governor of the NBS.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18792	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18793	Dear Vice President, I'm asking the Department of Justice. These days, NATO's powdered presidential candidate Vuk Jeremic, in a nation known as the Wolf descendant, wrote in "Washington Post", which in April 2017 received only 5.7% of the votes in the elections, once again who knows what time it showed that all politics comes down to an unprecedented hatred towards the president of the state, Aleksandr Vukic and his country to Serbia. Dear People's MPs, it is unacceptable and a deeply unpatriot act that Mr. Jeremic is muddying the Republic of Serbia, its President, Alexander Vukic, before meeting with US Vice President Mike Pensa. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia are shocked by the non-civilisation, non-patriotic and non-democratic act towards the Republic of Serbia and its president. But this isn't the first time. In 2016, Vuk Jeremic lied that Aleksandar Vukic had secretly met with Vladimir Vladimirovic Putin and presented former President of the Republic of Serbia to respected Mr Nikolic as a dangerous Russian man. In 2008, Mr Jeremic set up the domestic Serbian public, Mission Eulex, in KIM, relativising the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia to KIM. Let's move on. When the so-called so-called illegality was declared illegal in 2008. The independence of KIM, Jeremic's diplomacy did not take any effective action against the so-called The independence of KIM, although the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a decision on the so-called KIM's independence has been declared unconstitutional. All acts of Jeremic's diplomacy at least relativised Serbia's sovereignty to KIM. Jeremic failed to press charges before the International Court of Justice on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, whose sovereignty and territorial integrity are guaranteed by the UN Charter. independence of KIM on our territory. Mr. Jeremic failed to request an emergency session of the UN Security Council for violation of the UN Charter. Its diplomacy practically gave up funds to protect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of its own country. Serbia's Ambassador to Russia, Stanimir Vukicevic, made a statement almost devising any action by Serbian diplomacy against KIM independence. I quote: "We do not intend to meet in isolation itself, such a step towards breaking up diplomatic relations would be unnatural," finished quote. This was a diplomatic outburst that many interpreted as a suggestion by the allies of Russia, as a permanent member of the UN Security Council, that Serbia, despite an earlier firm agreement, was giving up the use of appropriate funds of international rights and the protection of its sovereignty and territorial integrity. Mr. Jeremic is in front of the OSCE so-called KIM's declaration of independence called the precedent, which showed that he did not recognize the importance of the statement made in his capacity as head of diplomacy. Mr Jeremic appealed to the OSCE, calling for respect for UN Resolution 1244, instead of a final act from Helsinki in 1975, which explicitly found that the provinces of the Republic of Serbia do not have the right to gain independence. Mr Jeremic has made an undisputed issue of the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia before the UN General Assembly's General Secretariat for the first time a controversial motion for a resolution seeking the opinion of the International Court of Justice on the legality of KIM's unilateral independence. Jeremic and Mr Tadic agreed to submit a compromise proposal to the UN General Assembly on KIM. They, ladies and gentlemen and respected citizens, accepted that the motion for a resolution seeking the opinion of the International Court of Justice issued a position based on international law, quotes: "one-sided secession cannot be an acceptable act to resolve territorial issues", concluded a quote, but have already accepted that the International Court of Justice declares that "the decision of temporary institutions is that unilateral declaration of independence is in accordance with international law," the quote concluded. This led Mr. Jeremic, a people known as the Wolf descendant, to relitate the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia to KIM. In this regard, I ask the Ministry of Justice – whether there are elements of the crime and anti-state act in Jeremic's performances and whether the prosecution intends to analyse these anti-patriotic and anti-state acts and take appropriate measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18794	Thank you. We're moving on to the list. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18795	Thank you, Chairman. Finally, let's talk about the agenda. I must show now for the public what scandalous campaign is being campaigned against the proposed candidate for the Protector of the Citizens of Mr Pasalic. I think it's very important that the public sees the limits of shame. This is NIN. These are the ones who tell you that Serbia is Auschwitz. Whoever has a title like this, he says, the protector of the government or the citizens, let Sandra Petrusic write a text. It's just amazing, in the second weekly that comes out today, in "Time" the same title – Protector of the citizens or protector of the government, just as one Zora Drcelic wrote. When you read the text you see that the essence of the text is absolutely the same. They probably told this Petrusichka to cut it down a little bit, to adjust the fracture, but the point is that the same center wrote both texts in two weeks. They didn't even change the title, which is the best indicator of what a shameless campaign is being led against a man who was otherwise a judge, elected judge at the time of the previous government. If we're going to watch a biography, now that it's constantly wondered, in 2007, Mr. Jankovic was elected for the biography of Mr. Pasalić, as was before 2007 by Mr. Jankovic. On what basis did you choose him to be the Protector of the Citizens? Where did you get him from? Where was he known in his life, so you pulled him out to be the Protector of the Citizens? Mr. Pasalic, at least he has a biography of the judge, in your time he was elected judge, even president of the Court of Appeal. You're not gonna tell me he didn't have any biography running for a place like this. This is the worst hypocrisy he's ever mastered these days. Why? Because one part of Serbia's NGO sector will lose its position in the fourth branch of government. I would normally like to vote for Mr Pasalic and ask him one thing, to completely disbanded the previous cabinet, because it was the headquarters of Mr Jankovic's political party. He formed a political party there. It is also done by Mr. Sabic, who, as the Commissioner for Public Information, is today giving a political interview. He says the opposition should perform in the Belgrade mayoral elections. Sorry, buddy, resign, don't abuse the function and pay we give you, go run for mayor and be the leader of the opposition. Why are we talking about the hypocrites he's taking over today? Today we have great care for the workers of the “Fiata. ” The "Fiat" did not bring the current government. That's what you brought in that "Fiat". You brought him in, signed a contract that you masked that no one can see, and you're talking today about Serbia being Auschwitz, a work camp. Those who say that Serbia is a work camp, Auschwitz, I ask them, since their owner is Ringier Axel Springer, do they consider their owner who is a German-Switzerland consortium, are they the Nazis who introduced the labor camp and why they don't strike then, because their foreign investor is the boss? After all, with headlines like this and what you're doing, you're making investors. Which investor will come to Serbia when he sees this headline, and when you say that all the investors who come here are Nazis, about, and you're the first to bring them in, you've introduced this concept of subsidies, and today you're all big self-controllers, today you'd like to return Cardell, today you're in favour of supporting paroles - factory workers. Where were you to support the workers in Novi Pazar when that martyr had his own lunch, cut off his finger and ate his finger or that other colleague of his who nailed his hand to the bar and when the workers there tied themselves to the bridges? You've ruined their factories and you've shut down all possible factories, unlike you, Mr. Vukic opens factories, and that's a key difference. The bottom line of the story is that your biggest non-governmental donors are losing their position in the fourth branch of government. I'm very happy about that. I absolutely support that these people who have abused all these political functions, or functions of independent bodies, are finally removed from the state. None of those corrective authorities are. Today we have the front page of this weekly, says - blood on the hands of the system, related to murder, a tragedy that took place at the Center for Social Work in Rakovica. That's the system you created. You've left us such centres for social work, on that principle to work. I don't understand you. Now you're criticizing yourself, suddenly you're for factory workers. Absolutely hypocritical government today. The whole point of the story, dear viewers, is that all of you who are watching this programme is to collapse the country's economic system, that every investor leaves Serbia. This is the whole point of the story today, because Serbia is positive, today Serbia has plus 3% of the growth, unlike you when we had a minus, unlike you when you were taking loans to pay and pension, we're not doing it today, we're giving from real sources. You want to tear it down, you want to go back to that full astal and, of course, continue to corrupt Serbia. Well, we won't give it to you. We'll fight to the end just like this. It's not our idea to let you do that. Unlike you, who take Fiscal advice as you come to terms with criticism, we accept any criticism of the Fiscal Council. I have to admit that I don't care that the same people are going to be in the Fiscal Council, because their criticism knows that it hurts badly, but let me vote for them precisely because they have constructive criticism and because people are rational and because they don't rule with hatred, but because they want something to contribute to this country and I'm going to vote, of course, for the entire Fiscal Council. I will vote, certainly for Mr. Pasalić for only one reason, the biggest reason they can't stand him. It is also a key reason because I believe that Sasa Jankovic's cabinet will be disbanded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18796	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Tatjana Macura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18797	Dear Chairman, I would like to point to a breach of Rules of Procedure, Rule 106. – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Today we are talking about selecting members for the Fiscal Council, selecting members for the Anti-Corruption Agency and choosing a new Citizens' Protector. The previous speaker spoke for six minutes and 30 seconds about the headlines of the weekly “NIN”, about what it says in some other weekbooks, what are the texts, whether they are godly or not. I don't think that's the subject on the agenda today. Accordingly, today is the day for parliamentary issues, and they could, the parliamentary group, agree that all those issues that pose abuse of debate on the agenda could be asked at the time when it was time for political issues to be asked. I'd like you to keep an eye on the debate so we can stay on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18798	Thank you. I'm expressing my position that I didn't hurt Article 106(1), as you said. Ambassador Djukanovic was deeply in the topic. I'm sorry you didn't understand or listen to him very carefully, and I'm leaving the SNS Parliament Club to decide whether to consult with you on the way they work, and I'm not going to interfere. Thank you. If you want to vote on it... Thank you very much. I'll ignore the "bre" and so on. I don't know if you've sent it to me, you MPs who turn around? I thought you were from Novi Sad, "bre" is for other parts of the country. I don't know me or any other MPs across the street. I'll ignore that. Don't get in any trouble with the Rules of Procedure, and I like it. Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go. Just, please, sign up, not just on the list, but physically.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18799	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my presentation, I will speak of the choice of the Guardian of Citizens. I think the debate on the Citizens' Protector, at this point, is causing special attention, for two reasons. The first is that this institution is still in our midst, unlike, say, Sweden, which we have already instructed as an example, where it was founded almost two centuries ago or countries of Europe, where it was founded after World War II. This institution has lived with us for 10 years, but we still cannot compare in this segment with developed European democracies. Secondly, why this topic is causing attention is that it is safe in the previous period to be classified in a political context, which, of course, should not be in practice. We must never forget the role of the Protector of the Citizens. Its role is to exercise control over the application of laws and other regulations by state authorities, primarily administrations and public services, and to protect citizens' rights. So it's an institution that primarily protects citizens from the irregular work of the administration. Democracy must not only come down to human rights, but without human rights there is no democracy. It is human rights that are one of the most important indicators of the principle of constitutionality, and the institution of the Simeona is an institution that is directly linked to the achievement of human rights protection. I expect the future Citizens' Protector to be managed by the fact that we have entrusted him with the role of public authorities controllers in the interests of protecting man and his rights, to the soul in accordance with the law he does not have great legal powers in relation to the administration and cannot make any measuring decisions, but his role is mainly revealing, warning or educational. For this reason, I expect him to contribute with his authority and work to the empowerment of such an institution, so that it becomes a coherent complement of institutional and legal mechanisms to protect human rights. I can't help but mention German political theorist Hana Arentt, who said that for the proper functioning of the system, the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial necessity and the introduction of a concept so-called. fields public. Under this, it has played an important corrective role in public opinion society. The public defender should be the personification of that public opinion right now. As I have already said, he has no legal authority, but his most powerful weapon, his greatest strength should be to address the public and express his public attitude. The protection of citizens must not make their decisions in accordance with some political premises. It must not be party-specific and citizens should be equal in front of it, regardless of their political beliefs. It is also important that it is elected to a five-year term, which is longer than the term of office, which calls for it to be elected to the post, as this reduces its dependence on the moment of the congregation's majority. On the other hand, this House of Representatives should be the strongest support for the work of the Guardians of Citizens and should always send a message to fight for the principles of rights and justice. I will set an example that in Great Britain, this is one institution that some call the Simeon, some Citizens' Protector, called the Commissioner of Parliament for Administration, and that only shows how connected Parliament and citizens' protectors are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18800	The word has a national MP, Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18801	Thank you. When the SNS took over in Serbia in 2012, the Anti-Corruption Agency was in the process. It was a young agency that was only in formation, but it had one very important task, which is to seduce order among the behaviour of public officials who are mahogany politicians. Instead of helping her in this business, unfortunately when I look back and look at what's been going on with the Agency since 2012, I can only conclude that her leg has been tripping more than she's been helping. And that, mostly through the board of directors, which we're discussing here today. When the SNS came to power in 2012, the Agency's Management Board had nine members, as prescribed by the law. Do you know how long the Agency's Management Board is today, five years later? Two members. The agency is blocked, it can't make decisions because all decisions need at least five members to vote, and they only have two. How did we get to this? From the very beginning, the agency warned that the legal framework within which it is working should be improved and that it needs to be freed from the political influence that has been incorporated unfortunately in this first Act on the Agency that has been adopted. How is this political influence embedded in her? Right through the board members. Like I said, there are nine of them. Of these nine, three members of the Management Board propose political bodies and the remaining six independent and regulatory bodies and state bodies. What do you think, these two members of the current board of directors of the Agency, from whom do they come? Are these three political or these six independents? Of course it's out of three political. What can be seen backwards when you look at what happened to the Management Board, is that whenever a mandate expires or one of the members of the Management Board, proposed by a political body, the National Assembly would select a new member as soon as possible. Here, let's say we have an example, one member of the board of directors is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In March 2015, we lost that member at the Agency, do you know when the new one was elected? Right in March, same month. When it comes to a board member proposed by the National Assembly's Administrative Board, we lost that member in November last year, but in December we had a new one. As for the third member of the board of directors, proposed by the political body, he is proposed by the president of the Republic of Serbia. July 7th, the new Serbian president proposed a member, and here we are, ten days later, in an urgent, urgent procedure, already discussing it. On the other hand, when it comes to the remaining six proposings, you have a situation where a member whom they proposed by joint agreement, the Citizens' Protector and the Commissioner for Public Information, arrived at the National Assembly on 1 April 2015. We haven't discussed it yet. We haven't discussed it in over two years, and we don't appoint that member. Furthermore, the Association of Journalists had problems agreeing on a certain time to propose for a member, but since 9 August last year, it means almost a year in this National Assembly, their proposal stands and waits to come to the agenda. So for a year, this member of theirs could have been working on the board of directors, and now we wouldn't be in a position to have only two members and be politically elected. Furthermore, the Supreme Cassation Court issued its proposal on 4 January this year. What were we waiting for until July? The state audit institution proposed its member on 9 March. Why did we wait until July to discuss it? The Social Economic Council on June 6th. When you look at this, you see that in a very perfidious way, the politically ruling majority interfere in the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency. For this, above all, the most responsible of all institutions is this National Assembly, which appoints members of the Management Board to which the Agency submits the report and which should monitor their work. Another problem we have is that the new Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency is waiting for the agenda to come to the Assembly, and it provides for many important changes, among other things, to finally get rid of this insane cumulation of functions that are again coming to the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly. When we adopt that new law, it won't be possible anymore. One official will be able to perform only one function. I appeal that we do not allow, as the National Assembly, a proposal from a new board member for months or years to wait in the National Assembly, but rather that it be an emergency procedure for us not to allow the Agency's board of directors to fall on two members, exclusively politically elected, and that today there are no representatives of independent bodies at all months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18802	Thank you. The word is Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18803	Thank you. The session under way is exclusively the assembly matter of the Assembly and of the MPs. The choices of all people whose résumés are ahead of us, have nothing to do with the government, nor with the president, except the promoters, nor with other independent bodies, have anything to do with MPs. If we are aware of what it means to be a Parliamentarian and what does it mean to have the integrity of a MP, why is the law and the Constitution designed to choose people like this? So there's a dialogue about who we choose. It is a key idea and election of the Guardians of Citizens and members of the Fiscal Council and the Anti-Corruption Agency, not to be a party party matter. That's where this session went to waste. The government has decided to make everything a party matter, to make everything a party topic. You've solved that Kosovo is a party topic, you don't need anyone. You've decided that European integration is a party topic, you don't need anyone. You have now decided that the election in independent institutions and regulatory bodies is a party matter. You don't need anyone. It's not good for anyone. The damage is common. I know it's irresistible, Poland is, I'm asking you for all sorts of throw-offs to ask for a word, I'm very in the mood for replica and very imaginative in answers, and the law that needs to build a consensus and dialogue wouldn't be if I hadn't had the same conversations with members of my party. Most Serbia does not tolerate dialogue, it is not your monopoly, you have only perfected the message – everything in Serbia is a party matter, from Kosovo and Europe, through the election of all of which the Assembly should decide. Why is that a problem? Because if you think of this session as a session around an astal for which a good state and a good society are being built, then there are three legs of that astal and legislative, executive and judicial authority. The fourth leg is the space of public dialogue, the space of institutional dialogue, the space of media dialogue, the space you do not want. That's why we have a table on three legs, for which we will try to build a rule of law and build a good state and a good society. It won't work, I can only express a warm regret, because the damage is common. I can express my regret for all the people you choose today, and this is the first time there will be no consensus vote with the Guardian of Citizens as members of the Fiscal Council. This is the first time we've gone a long way back from the difficult time when we've made a half-step, a small step and an even smaller step to build bridges and understand what the common benefit of all parties in Serbia is. You don't want the dialogue, you want the walls, you want the bed. Of that, no good can be included by any institution you stand for. Why do you want to do that? It is already a matter of style, attitude, world view, the desire to keep everything that should be public dialogue in Serbia in obedience, not discipline. Obedience requires obedience, obedience requires fear, and dialogue requires discipline, will, effort to participate in the dialogue. I'm sorry that two funny examples can show how much you don't want a dialogue. The first is the work of the Assembly's institutions from a committee that withdraws other people's proposals, to a paper that arrived in the assembly, signed by the Serbian Secretary-General for Emergency Procedure. Oh, man, don't do that. If you like, here you go, we've already watched the '90s, we're looking at Poland now, we're looking at Turkey, if you like to repeat other people's mistakes to the common damage, there's no one unfortunately who can stop you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18804	Thank you, colleague Komic. The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18805	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I listened very carefully, although I wanted to be completely in another spirit to discuss, a letter that gave a speech before me and that I was a malicious MP, of course I would raise the Rules of Procedure in the air and say, "A violation of the Rules of Procedure and ask that we stick exclusively to the subject." But I'm not, I'm a politician and I totally understand what MPs want to say when they're discussing the subject, but in their own way they don't speak in a simple dictionary -- Sasa Jankovic was a bad Citizens' Protector, and Mr Pasalic will be good. That's what they would say in some elementary school, and in parliament it's said as said MP Vladimir Djukanovic or an MP who spoke before me. Of course, I am not malice and I understand that in this home it often comes out of the context of the topic, so it is not about the quality of past and present MPs, but it is in some broader way trying to explain why we are in favour or why we are against. I didn't get a lot of assurance from the MPs about their arguments. It would convince me that it represents a political option that has worked or will work someday, if it gets citizens' trust, just as it has said, means impartially and in the spirit of the Socialist Union of the working people, abolishing politics, trying to create a general consensus where there will be no vote, where there will be no choice, where no political option will be determined to have as much confidence as the citizens in this parliament, and to represent the interests of the citizens who voted. So, if the point is that in the future when DS wins one day, my God, one day it might happen, we end the parties and we work in the spirit of the Socialist Union of the working people, so we all agree on everything. Of course, I'm a century away from compromise when it comes to big topics, and then when she said about Kosovo and Metohija. President Aleksandar Vukic has just said that in the fall he will call on all political parties to discuss this very important topic. I hope that Gordana Comic will respond to this call or affect the top of his political party that, in the spirit of its discussion of the importance of reaching consensus on major issues, take and participate. Because if you don't take part, then you won't, except for the speaker in parliament when it comes to criticising the SNS and our coalition partners. I want to go back to a few thesis that they've been doing here for two days now, that the issue of the Guardians is a party topic. Of course it is a party theme. I do not see anyone here who is not a member of a political party and in Serbia at all lately because of the political impotence of some parties that have less and less importance and influence in Serbia is trying to push through something that is more acceptable to citizens, which is to abolish political parties and no longer be a political and party issue. I don't know what to do then. To be the subject of a voluntary singing society, or don't I know what? Yes, this is an important political topic for Serbia. Is it important that we have the functions of the Protector of the Citizens or the Trustee of information of public importance, or that we have this body or that body, we can discuss it. This has become a question of all issues since Sasa Jankovic had deep-seated, former Citizens' Protector, a recent, or failed candidate for the president of the Republic of Serbia, became a question of all issues, although this is not quite the case among EU members. I was interested, because I don't know the name of any single civil protection officer in the countries of our environment or in EU member states, why aren't they such a "pop star" star as Sasa Jankovic became and why is this not a question of all the issues in them, and they don't even have a Protector of citizens in their system at all? For example, an EU member with high political influence in the EU, such as the Republic of Italy, does not have such an institution at all. So it is not a question of the survival of the Republic of Serbia and that we are now talking about how or how to have or die, because simply the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will not be able to exercise their civil and human rights if we do not have it. We have, we haven't abolished, and apparently this ruling majority doesn't even think about something like that. And let's not regret Sasha Jankovic, now there are some who go to joy or regret his actions, when we're all aware that it wasn't so good that one Civil Protection Officer should work. Come on, for the first five years, my God, we've all voted here to extend his mandate, but let's not say he wasn't a political figure before. The fact that Sasa Jankovic worked at the Ministry of Sports is silenced here, while the minister was Zoran Angelkovic Baki, who was known in public at the time, which is why I speak his nickname, which was previously led by a temporary executive in Kosovo and Metohija. Sasa Jankovic was one of the politicians during Slobodan Milosevic and worked at the Sports Ministry. Don't just tell me that he was a top athlete, so by expertise he was admitted to Zoran Angelkovic Bucky, but, of course, in the ministries are accepted as assistants or deputies of the person who was politically profiled. So he was a politician. Once a politician, always a politician. So he couldn't get past his second term. The second term fully devoted the policy field and eventually failed and began to run the last two or three years of election campaign for the president of the Republic. I am asking candidate Pasalic, who we are voting for today, and I sincerely hope that we will choose him, because we see that there is no one to protect the rights of citizens by the discussions of some honourable MPs, I ask him to be drastically different from Sasha Jankovic, that he is not concerned with politics, that his reports be only within the competences of the Citizens' Protector, defined by certain positive regulations, or laws, and that he does not come under any influence from any political structures, and that he allows us to discuss his reports and discuss, rather than commenting here in political pamphlets what Sasa Jankovic likes, and what does not like in the state and which political moves he does not like, as it is contrary to the law. There is nowhere in the law that the Citizens' Protector leads politics and criticises political moves by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Now, there's Sasha Jankovic's mistake. There he tripped in his ambition to become a great politician and became a simple rock star, a bigger star than Goran Bregovic. More has been said about Saša Jankovic in the last year than Novak Djokovic, Goran Bregovic and Emir Kusturica combined. That's what we've been through. Here, you tell me, what is the name of the Citizens' Protector in France, what is the name of the Citizens' Protector in Germany, what is the name of the Citizens' Protector in any country of Europe? So they're professionals who do business, where they even exist, in Italy I can't say what it's called when they don't have a Protector of the Citizens. There's been some talk here about the work of Parliament. It's true again. We discussed it for the first time in 2014 and 2015. During the ruling of the DS, while headed by this parliament, it was not discussed in a tide of reports by the Citizens' Protectors. When did you discuss this? Come on, show me that session. This is where everyone sat, and he and Shabic, and then they made some kind of scandal, some kind of show. They are offended, so they come out, and they come in, so my God, I run after them, I apologize. I'm sorry that I apologized then, and I didn't even know I was apologizing to the political competition and to those who are running for president of the state and now for mayor of Belgrade. I'm shocked today. My working day begins with Commissioner Sabic giving an interview on how he will run for mayor of Belgrade and talk politics. Where's the morale? Shabic, right? It's not Kraut? I'm sorry, Mr. Shabic. I'm sure I'll remember his last name. I deeply apologize to him, for last time he criticized me for taking his salary level out. It's a question of all the questions, you can't say how much aposing it is for such an important job. Yes, yes, these are the topics, Reverend Krasic. To me, the Citizens' Protector, the former Citizens' Protector, and not the President of the Party, is now the same novelty in our public life, said - who am I to even talk about his work. Unbelievable, imagine, former Citizens' Protector, president of a political opposition party, former candidate for president of the state. Thank God, the citizens of Serbia did not make a mistake, so they did not choose him, not to give the MP of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia his position on how he was a bad Citizens' Protector and my expectations for the newly elected future to be better than he was. Take the paper, she says - who is she to even discuss. I am a representative of the people, a representative of the Serbian citizens, who voted for me. Representatives of Serbian citizens in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia vote for him and for the future trustee. We are the source of their power because we choose them and criticize them and we debated their reports and we voted unanimously for their report. However, the opposition says it will vote, so it leaves, so it does not vote. The right of opposition, but to be clear, we critics, Sasa Jankovic and Shabic, voted in favour of their report and did not want to vote for the political pamphlets next year. We discussed it on committees. Don't let the thesis get through here if we haven't discussed it. We discussed it on committees. They didn't get their grades and conclusions. What conclusions should we draw before the prey? To criticize their political ideas, their candidates? We didn't mean to. We did them a big favor. The third thesis, just as amazing and ridiculous. It shows the urgency of the procedure. What a black emergency procedure. Sasa Jankovic resigned at the start of his election campaign in February. However, he did take the time to receive his salary for several months, as he would drive state resources in an election campaign for the president of the state and has no savings. I ask the candidate for a representative of the Protector of Citizens that if he has intentions one day after five years to run for president of the state not to use state resources, not to use employees in his cabinet, not to use the vehicle and not to take the salary, but to be so correct that he resigns in time, to allow us to resolve it and not to use the state vehicle. Not to use a state vehicle in an election campaign, not to drive to the corner where the bus is, so he gets on the bus, and he goes on some kind of rally and yells – this government uses state resources, Alexander Vukic went to the car to rally this one and that one and then again by bus to get to his car and go back. I will not, I will not, I will protect the citizens, an honest man who stands behind his words and does not engage in politics or politics. The urgency of the procedure, funny from February to July. Well, what could be slower than this? I got one question yesterday, and I'm not going out of line to the state to tell you who asked me a question, can you do this V.D. State until October to maintain? Because probably this V.D. It's very similar to some political circles, but no one asks if it's like the citizens of Serbia who need to be protected. Then I had to explain somehow, parliament adheres to the legal framework by August 5th. We have to choose a new Protector of Citizens. I guess that's the way it is in their countries. I guess, or we're a colony, so the colonies are asking conditions and such ridiculous questions, can you do a little V.D. state to extend. And that we've extended V.D. They would come again and say, "What you have extended is V.D. What's the status? Such issues are raised by a colony, not a sovereign state like Serbia. We can't extend V.D. status. I couldn't be at that ingenious meeting yesterday, so I have to answer now. We have to obey the laws we've passed. We are Parliament and we must choose a new Protector of Citizens, because citizens simply cry out for the function of the Protector of Citizens and do not know now what they will do without this function and I recommend that the Republic of Italy think about it somehow and introduce this function, because they do not have it now. As an illustration, thank Balshi Bozovic, here we are close to this consensus, dialogue, I see that you support me, says it's a party topic, a party thing. The real games need to be lifted, it looks like everyone's gonna get better. I don't know what we're gonna have, then. Street, probably. The party thing, the DS proposed to Sasa Jankovic. We follow exactly the same legal procedure and I say it for the public, I'm not saying it because of those who say it indiscriminately, and they know the procedure is the same. MPs' clubs, groups are proposing candidates. All proposed candidates, the proposals are in front of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, which determines one, and then we, watch and honor politicians. I'm proud to be a politician, to tell you and not understand that tendency of trying to end politics and parties. I'm proud of it, and I think I'm doing a good thing for the citizens that I support that there is a party life, a multiparty life in this country. The Democratic Party proposed Sasa Jankovic, by procedure and by law in 2007. Again, in 2012, Saša Jankovic was elected here. Who chooses him, I don't understand? And yet, here as representatives of Serbian citizens, we have no more perfect way of life than the parliamentary life, has not yet been found in modern civilization, we will choose or will not choose the proposed candidate Pasalic. And, that's it, I don't know what these discussions are. It's about the urgency of the procedure, so this isn't the law, so it's an amendment. So, after six months we suggested, we came to all the proposals, the parliamentary groups, more, three or four candidates we had before the board. We also had party candidates, one president of the city board, enough was, is one, or a parliamentary, committee group, one of the candidates. It's nothing wrong, I won't criticize you for it. He probably wouldn't be involved in politics after that, if we chose him, and that's it. I say Sasa Jankovic worked at the ministry, Sabic. There's an example of why we shouldn't criticise the MP's group enough is enough. Rodoljub Sabic was a politician and he was the minister of state administration and local self-government in the government in 2001. The man has experience and assumed, three years he was, until 2003. There, the system just stalled and strengthened. So I don't see the problem why Sasa Jankovic and Rodoljub Sabic as politicians could be candidates elected, and now someone who is not a politician but a judge cannot, and meets all conditions, will resign, there is no conflict of functions. Well, he can't be the Protector if he's a judge, and neither party member is. We took one big step. Here, and it's a dialogue and it's the destruction of walls and misery, the honourable messengers. We took a step forward, no more former ministers, no more politicians, no more civil servants, Sabic and Jankovic, but we have an extra-party personality. So such protectors, such as Jankovic and Shabic, are politicians who go into Serbia's past and thus Serbia has taken an extremely big step. I hope we choose the Protector of the Citizens today. I apologize to the others I haven't paid enough attention to, but the tide hasn't said much about other candidates for important functions. Soon they will come out with a report of their work, not of other people's work and of work and of other people's politics, and we will certainly debate their work report in the plural, although it is our distinguished colleagues who used to be the government, and now the opposition, which everyone must try and do and that is good, be in power and be in opposition, that you know how the one and the other side works, we will discuss it as we discussed two years ago here in the tide of their reports. Don't mind me, I just want to send my personal message, not to bring in my distinguished colleagues from the parliamentary club to whom I belong, the Serbian Progressive Party, Rodoljub Sabic – please resign as trustees and start your campaign for mayor of Belgrade today, you will be more respected by the citizens of Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18806	Thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18807	Today's agenda, or agenda of this session, best shows the attitude of the ruling majority towards the institutions of the system. First, you shortened our time of debate because you put these points together, and we think that this institution deserves a special debate, each and every one of them. It's on one side. On the other hand, you have actually shown that there is no difference in the lives of Serbian citizens, generally in Serbia, whether we have these institutions or not. Because we haven't had a Protector in months, and we don't have a Anti-Corruption Agency. And what's going on? Nothing. And that's what comes back to the earlier years, when we Serbian radicals claimed that these so-called. institutions have no purpose, no purpose, no need for us and that we do not have to do everything the European Union asks us to do. And they themselves, as we have heard before, do not have those institutions that ask of us. The position of the Serbian Radical Party on whether it is possible to choose someone who has nothing to do with politics and ruling parties to any function is clear – of course it is impossible. How could the ruling majority suggest someone he knows is at least close to or has sympathy for another party? That's not possible. And that's why this demagogue story yesterday and today about whether someone's independent or not makes no sense at all, and it doesn't make sense. What does it matter when people are elected to these functions? It's important that they meet the conditions, that they have a professional ability and that they're moral people. And what party they belong to and whether they like this game or that party, it's absolutely irrelevant, because, we repeat, it's impossible to fail someone who will be supported by the ruling majority, and that it supports another party for political reasons. There have been demagogue stories here regarding the high salaries of these officials. This is also what we want to underline, because when it came to Sasa Jankovic at a time when he was a major politician, and the politician was from the time and when he was the Protector of the Citizens, as Pasalic will be, then the ruling coalition talked about his three thousand euros in salaries, etc. We said then, "You are right, cut those wages, that it may be less than the reward of your future protector." And we speak and repeat - in Serbia no one can have a higher salary than the president of the state and the Prime Minister. You cannot buy independence with great wages, fellow MPs. So independence depends on the moral qualities of those you propose, and we're not sure that you did it this time, either in these previous periods or in those before you. When it comes to the Fiscal Council, yesterday someone here said that the Fiscal Council is not an extended arm of the IMF, the European Bank, the World Bank, etc. We claim it is. We're going to give a very simple example of where we're going to explain it. When Aleksandar Vukic, in his own time in the campaign until he was still the government, claimed he would not cut salaries and pensions, and believed him by people, and as soon as he came to power he reduced pensions and today he did not return them to the period before he stole them, then the IMF said that in Serbia they had to cut wages and pensions. As soon as he came to power, the Wolf listened to them. In this now campaign for these presidential elections, Vucic argues that right away, as far as November, to raise salaries and pensions, to have some money, we don't know what we're going to do with them and that there are conditions for these increases. What happened? The Fiscal Council came out and said – no, no, there is no way to increase pensions and salaries, possibly in the 2018 budget to discuss this. The IMF showed up, came to talk and said – there is no increase in wages and pensions. Brnabićka says, Vujovic says, as if Vučić didn't say anything – there is no increase, we will be able to talk about it only when we talk about the next budget. So, evidence that the Fiscal Council is an extended arm of the IMF in Serbia. Okay, they even sober us up once in a while. The Vucic tells us that we will have an average salary of 500 euros very soon, because now it is 400 and I don't know how much. Of course, those of the Fiscal Council say – at least five years should pass before we reach that level of average earnings. When it comes to the Anti-Corruption Agency, as it sounds, you know, now that the citizens hear and listen to us yesterday and today they think -- mildly to us, they're going to fight corruption. And I'll just remind you that one of the directors of the Anti-Corruption Agency ended up with a criminal report for a corruption affair related to an apartment. The second director of the agency is today the judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, and it was known that it would progress well because on the day she was elected to that independent post, she told the media she was satisfied because she had the support of Aleksandr Vukic, which is absolutely unacceptable. She can't at least say that, if she's president of an independent act, she can't care what Vukic thinks of her, but the Wolf must be important to behave so she doesn't find him some phallic and lack of behavior, I mean his job. And here you have shown that you do not respect institutions. He suggests that the president of the candidate country, you don't put it on the agenda, wait for the elections to pass, the new president of the country to come and then set up his candidate. Proposed to you by the Guardian of the Citizens of the Candidates, the Committee decides to accept this proposal by the Citizens' Protector and the Commissioner for Public Information, and a week after that, you put the decision out of force on the board and you say – it cannot be the proposal because Sasa Jankovic is no longer the Citizens' Protector. Well, he was then. I mean, he wasn't even when you first accepted that proposal. But it shouldn't matter who the president is, who the protector is, I guess we're talking about functions. Because the law says that function, that institution must suggest, and it doesn't matter what name and last name. But that's a long way from you. As for the Guardian of Citizens, although it was here, indeed, if it wasn't sad, our remarks on the Committee when we said it was inadmissible that someone who had studied for 13 years with an average of six and something and we still didn't get the answer that the professor dared to give him a week and spoil that average of six, and then yesterday it was said several times that it didn't matter how much someone studied, what average. Imagine what these messages are to young people who are studying or who are preparing to study? Dear young people in Serbia, it is very important that you study, it is very important that you finish colleges, to finish them in time, to take care of the average, because after someone asks you, as we now ask Pasalić, how could he enroll in the master's degree, end up, how could he enroll in a doctorate with an average of six? Who, please, gave it to him? There are regulations that say it has to be 8.5 averages to enroll and complete further academic titles. Everything is suspicious in this case. There were objections, you voted for Sasa Jankovic and praised him, the most I remember was how Jorgenka Tabakovic praised him when you talked about him in 2012. But I'll remind you, gentlemen, that Pasalic is also attached to the DS. Do you think he could have been elected judge at the time of the "Sabbe" campaign in 2003 if he hadn't been close to us? So, just a flyover, he'll be close to someone next. You're not good at suggestions, and we're not voting for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18808	Thank you, Mrs. Radeta. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18809	Thank you, Chairman. When I hear this, I suppose it's a regret for these 213 people arrested in the previous days and 385kg of narcotics and a larger amount of weapons and ammunition seized by the MUP headed by Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. I want this opportunity to commend the work of Minister Stefanovic and the MUP. This is how Serbia fights corruption and crime in its country. But let's get back to the agenda. The topic of the agenda, we have three points united in one, and most of the talk was about the Citizens' Protector, more specifically about the election of the new Citizens' Protector and the proposal submitted by our parliamentary group with its coalition partners, Mr Pasalic. But it seems to me, while I was listening to the previous pay phone, as if I had heard Mr. Jankovic. However, I turn my head to that side where my predecessor is sitting and I see that he is not Jankovic, and I remained quite confused, because those words that came from there were practically the words of Mr Jankovic. And the culture of throwing, of course, is the culture of that political group. Of course, Mr. Jankovic's distinguished predecessor has known him since the time of July. They were then the greatest friends, extremely good friends, and likely since then they have been bound by some emotional political and other interests. I want to tell you that, first of all, we as citizens, those who have supported our political party, our coalition and President Alexander Vukic, today may need the protection of independent institutions, because some people who consider themselves to be elite, and I will very practically show you how they view themselves as elite, say they are evil killers, pig junte, etc., and that is no less than Mr Srdjan Dragojevic. The famous director called more than 60% of Serbia's citizens on Twitter's warrant, his own personal Twitter warrant to mean killers, pig juntas, juntas of jerks and idiots, before whom he and his wife, if they win the election, will leave that country. He should be ashamed. Someone who presents themselves as an elite to use such a dictionary and in such a way as to call their citizens, whether they were 5% or 60%, it doesn't matter. It is inadmissible in a country that considers itself democratic, especially for those people who consider themselves democratic, and they find that terribly ridiculous. It is funny and the cover of "NIN", they also find "Time" in which they say the blood on the hands of the system is all funny, because they are impressed. They're impressed by Dahau, Auschwitz, Mathausen. They're fucked with it. They even uploaded it to their speakers today in the Serbian Parliament. They also called us beasts and all kinds of other evil names. My predecessor spoke to me and threw something at me at the expense of a political option, where the president of their city board was thrilled after previous local elections by making a coalition with the party in the Old Town municipality. And they show once again their political indiscipline and inconsistency. Now, of course, I want to continue on these front pages, and that's about the Citizens' Protector, because the Citizens' Protector needs to protect the people, it's about protecting the citizens, whatever the political options are, whether they voted for the SNS, any other political party, it doesn't matter. It's an option that must be above all parties in that sense to protect them, to protect them from possible abuses by the authorities, but also to protect against those who are trying to mock all of what we are doing here. One of those great intellectuals said the cover of "NIN" did not hurt the victims of the Holocaust. It's a scandal, it's an experience over those victims. That's rude. Such people deserve to be condemned to the public in every way possible. Zarko Jovanovic also says -- it is not an insult "Nin" that detects evil authorities. Be careful what those words are. What kind of monsters can 60, 70% of their people call monsters, villains and pig juntas? It's inadmissible in a normal and civilized world. On the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, we had a debate on several candidates. I said yesterday that, of course, I disagree that someone who is at this point a member of the political party can in an impartial and objective way protect the interests of the citizens. I cannot, as a member of the SNS, now be the Protector of the Citizens completely impartial and objectively, and belong to one political option. Get out of the political party, then let's talk about whether or not you can. But all those who proposed other candidates were actually those people who were deep inside themselves and on that day supported the way that Sasa Jankovic was the Protector of Citizens, I say under the terms of the citizens' protector, he was not protecting the citizens, he was protecting the tycoons, he was protecting the political class, the political scientist of the mafia. He protected those people. Every time there was an arrest of people accused of corruption, of crime, we usually hear from those elitists, Shabic, Jankovic and others say. Look, one option goes to that point that she is so in love with the last name Jankovic, so she suggests another Jankovic. Well, after Jankovic there's always some Jankovic. Now, Serbia doesn't need Jankovic anymore. Serbia needs really independent institutions that will in objective ways, facts, and criticise the government, because the criticism of the authorities is a healthy and normal thing in every democracy, because criticism makes you better. In this sense, I support completely the people who are proposed to be in the Fiscal Council, because they have rarely contributed to their criticism that Serbia is here today economically and financially, that public finances are stable, that the state is moving forward, that we have 3% growth, that we are looking forward to growth, rather than looking forward to the minus, because here some are looking forward to it when Serbia is at a loss, so it gives the headline that Serbia is a working camp, and thus it is trying to drive investors away, and only out of the naked political interest it seems that they in the cheap, worst possible demagogogic attempt to return somewhere and re-embark on Serbian citizens. Well, that won't work anymore. You will no longer be able to ride Serbian citizens. Never again after any election will the citizens of Serbia be saddled with their backs for you. It hurts these gentlemen who are so cynically applauding, they're in pain of 55 factories, they're in pain of 150,000 new jobs, they're all in pain, because we still have a minus of the 250,000 that they've left on the street with their expertise, their brains, their education. They're talking about workers. What workers, the "Fiyat" about the political abuse of strike in "Fiyat"? That's what they're talking about. Please don't. Let's be polite, so civilized that when we criticise, we rely on some facts, so to say 3% of Serbia has growth, yes, it's true, if we had 4% in power, that's exactly what we would do, and that would be 5%, 6%, 10%, there would be 55 factories in three years, it would be 75. But, no, if they were in power, it would be not 55 factories in three years, but 110 shut down in three years, as it was, we watched 12 years of those experts. Whoever came to them was an expert and expert. A colleague of Gojkovic, who spoke before me from our parliamentary group, also spoke about how, in fact, instead of politicians, citizens are aware of this side of people who are not allegedly politicians. I'm saying -- apparently, because either they're exes, so now they've decided to be as independent as they receive money from foreign embassies, while text messages are being sent we're here and here in front of certain political options, so we're going to rally together. Now, these are their independent, impartial and objective elites, self-proclaimed eliteists. They gave themselves the right to be declared elite, and what is everyone else? For them are citizens who are against them, and 90% of citizens in Serbia are against them, the pigs' junta remain for them. Dear citizens of Serbia, to finish this exhibit, those who called you pig juntas, those who are cynicalally laughing at 55 factories, those who are funny 150 thousand jobs, those who find it funny that one of the zero dinars pays a month for 300, 400 euros in wages, those who find it funny what we've been talking about, those who find it funny that someone is receiving money from certain foreign embassies to work against the interests of their citizens, don't give them 5%, or 4%, 0% anymore. These people should stay at their houses, those who aren't hands in honey, those who are guilty of going to jail. As I said yesterday about the end, the one who lies, and they lie to them every day, he probably steals, the one who probably steals that one will eventually go to prison and into political forgetfulness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18810	Thank you. Right on the replica of the Witch of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18811	I don't want to talk about this papaziania, but I have to say that today you will vote for a candidate for the Protector of Citizens without anyone seeing evidence that he is a graduate lawyer, that he has 10 years of experience and that he is a citizen of Serbia. Of the four candidates, three had no evidence on the board. Now I'm asking -- can anyone imagine being employed by a state body without supplying at least proof that he is a Serbian citizen? It is said on the Committee – that is understood. We don't like to mean things. The SRS candidate Ekaterina Marinkovic had complete documentation and we suggested that other candidates be rejected as messy and that she be the only candidate and meets all conditions, and in her address to the Committee she showed that she was indeed someone who could and could perform that function, and how important or not important it depends on the government's relationship with that function. We think if there is already a need to perform someone serious and responsible and just such a candidate is an SRS candidate Ekaterina Marinkovic for whom, for her exposure and her relationship to that function, no one on the Committee has had any objections, except for the one who said her only problem of the year. A woman who is 38 years old, who has more than 10 years of experience, 10 needs, who finished law school with a solid average, had a problem, there, year. What does that problem mean? Is that a lot or a little? We didn't quite understand, but, therefore, the public should know that we had the best candidate, which is Ekaterina Marinkovic and will one day be the Protector of the Citizens. Thanks for asking.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18812	Thanks for the discussion. The word has been made by the MP, Serbia's Filipovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18813	Thank you, Chairman. Article 107 has been injured. - The speaker is required at the National Assembly session to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I think you hurt this member for that reason that I didn't even mention a distinguished colleague. You gave her the right to a replica, and she said some things about the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the legislation we discussed there, so that's where it was supposed to be replicated on the subject, not here. She's probably late for that replica from the board, but let me just say two lines. It's not someone's age or just years. The Protector of the Citizens must also be with a certain life experience so that he can see...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18814	MP, you're replicating.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18815	... Facts and things a little wider, so for those reasons...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18816	You've indicated an injury. Get in the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18817	Let me just finish, if that's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18818	If you're replicating, you can't finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18819	I didn't say what my colleague said.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18820	Report to replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18821	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18822	He can't now. It's abuse. So it's your fault. You could've asked for a replica, maybe you'd get one, I'm not sure. We can't vote on a nonexistent injury. The word is made by the People's Messenger Tatjan Macura.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18823	I will not look back on the romanced biography of the Protector of Citizens, but rather the chosen Protector of Citizens, and I will not look back at the fact that we have at least two candidates far more qualified than the one proposed by the ruling majority. I will refer to the last two annual reports of an independent citizen-protector institution in which certain measures are consistently recommended by the government and certain ministries are consistently ignored. In both reports, it is said that the laws are passed in a missing, too fast, or urgent procedure, that they are not harmonised, that solutions are not sufficiently clear to experts, let alone those to whom norms apply, that application is unequal, selective, and the case-law that arises from their application is unknown. It all leads to citizens feeling fundamentally, as far as legal certainty is concerned, insecure. Except that the annual report is not consistently discussed in the National Assembly, the government and the ministries do not follow the recommendations of the Citizens' Protectors. Many of the measures recommended in the citizens' protection reports could not have been applied if we had two accidents in front of the centre for social work in New Belgrade and in Rakovica. Whether we want to admit it or not, the responsibility to consistently ignore the recommendations of the Citizens' Protector is not on the Citizens' Protector, but on the Government, or on all governments for five years, and on the ministries that the recommendations did not want to accept. When you constantly ignore well-intentioned recommendations between all these failures, what happens, unfortunately. The recommendations that the government and certain ministries have consistently ignored are the following. I singled out only those involved in two accidents outside the welfare center. Namely, the first recommendation was to the government. It says – it is recommended to prepare a draft law on banning the physical punishment of children. If the Assembly had received a bill on banning the physical punishment of children and the parallel application of the other laws in force, would the father who was in front of his three children, who was sanctioned for abusing one of his three children, have at all had the opportunity to see them in controlled conditions? The government is recommended to step up activities to make the child protection process effective and functional against violence, abuse and neglect. Same comment as the previous recommendation. The Ministry of Culture and Information and the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media should take action in cases of violations of media laws and rights of children in the media. What do you think these recommendations have come, that is, to hear them consistently, from the report, from the Ministry of Culture and REM, would we listen to all the national frequencies today about all the details of the disgusting crimes that took place in front of the social work center? Would you get all the information on the underage person who was killed on the front page, anything with the picture? The justice ministry should prepare drafts of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, improving the position of sensitive groups, and above all victims of violence in the women and children's families. In November, we adopted the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence and recognised economic violence as a form of violence. How can you help a victim who does not have the material resources to provide adequate legal assistance to protect himself from a system that is ignoring her? The government also has to ensure that women are treated according to recommendations, knowledge training and competences to prevent, combat and protect against domestic violence and partner relations. We did not even, by this law, even by a previously passed law, regulate that every police station has an obligation to have at least one police officer. I'm sorry Mr. Pasalic isn't here today, but I know he has no obligation to be, but at least he would have to listen morally. We simply don't trust the ruling coalition, which literally ignores all the recommendations that...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18824	You've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18825	Let me just finish my sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18826	Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18827	... which consistently ignores any recommendations made by the Protectors, which are ultimately well-intentioned. We just don't trust your candidates.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18828	Thank you, MPs. Next speaker Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18829	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today, in my presentation, I will refer to the Institute of the Protectors of Citizens. It is very important that this is on the agenda today, not only because it will formally end with abuses of that function, but also because of the election of a new Citizens' Protector, whose task will be to set up or return this institute to its place of origin, as it is seen from its very name. What I will begin my presentations are provisions relating to the Ombudsman himself, which say he is obliged to act under the Constitution, the law, other regulations, ratified international agreements and the general rules of international law. It pays special attention to the protection of the rights of members of national minorities, the rights of children, the rights of persons with disabilities, the rights of persons deprived of freedoms and gender equality. The citizen's protector is independent in his work. For a reason, I started my presentation this way, because I believe that these provisions must be available and must be repeated, so that all people know who is actually in charge of protecting their rights, but on the other hand, it also points to what I would expect and what citizens will expect from the future Protector of citizens, and these provisions make up only one framework of that institute. As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, I would also point to a member who is in the Law on the Protector of Citizens, who says that the committee responsible, in this case the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, can schedule a session, which has been done, but does not necessarily mean that. So he can schedule a session where the candidates will present themselves. The candidates not only presented themselves, but also answered questions as to how MPs who are members of that committee and MPs who are not members of that committee but who are representatives of the parliamentary groups on whose proposal these candidates have even come as a proposal for a choice for the Citizens' Protector. As far as legal proceedings are concerned, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and legislatory has done everything according to the law. So, these remarks which have been made in the Assembly in the previous day and on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives themselves are absolutely unfounded on the maintenance of that committee or the statement of candidates on how they will behave if they are elected as Protector of the Citizens. As far as the candidate I will support is concerned, it will be Mr Pasalic, not only because I am part of the parliamentary group that proposed Mr Pasalic as a candidate for the Citizens' Protector election, but also as a lawyer with some experience, I think I can comment on the choice of Citizens' Protector in the next sense. His extensive biography can also conclude his successful and dedicated work, but it can also be assumed that he will perform this function effectively and in the interests of the citizens. On the other hand, if we have someone who was led by the High Court or the Criminal Court of Appeals, as a man with a legal trial and, as you would say, as a man of practice, I believe in his organizational abilities and will in the best possible way employ both his deputies and his entire service in order to make it more effective. The Institute of the Protectors is relatively young, but if we take into account the former behaviour of the Protector of Citizens and if we carry out a detailed analysis of how the Protector of Citizens acted, we can come to the conclusion that some things should not be repeated. If we know the fact that the former Citizens' Protector has selectively chosen the gatherings he will oversee, so he decided to appear at the protest "We do not strangle Belgrade" and thus personally participated in the protests under the symbol "Yellow Ducks", we can conclude that the institution of the Protector of Citizens is seriously compromised and in this sense, I expect from each of the next Citizens' Protectors that such behaviour does not happen again. The citizen's protector is here to protect the rights of all citizens, not to be attached to certain groups in order to build his political career and thus act against the law. In line with this, independence in the work of the Protector of Citizens has also been put under question. The function of the Protector of Citizens has been politicised, and the peak of the abuse of the post for political purposes has been reached by the candidate of the Citizens' Protector for the President of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, a banal example to which we do not have to pay much attention, but imagine only the Protector of citizens seeking special labels for their official vehicles, i.e. special labels, which will mean that the police are not allowed to stop the Protector and not only that, but the police are obliged to give him parking help in the intersection or to get to a standstill. What's this about? Is this about doing the job of the Protector of Citizens? What was the Citizens' Protector planning on transporting his official cars, so he asked for passes of that kind that the police should not exercise control? That's where the questions are asked. Could that have been useful to the citizens? I'll answer that no. The question arises whether it helped the Protector to do his job better? I'll also answer no. And this is how we can use these examples of abuse in abuse, but I will end up here for the sake of time and I will say only in the end that the future Protector of the Citizens wants to have the strength to protect the rights of the citizens, to preserve the independence of that institution... (Balsa Bozovic: What are you looking at? )......................................................................................................... To never again allow the institution to be misused for political purposes and not to allow the abuse of the institution to meet personal needs and obtain privileges.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18830	Ambassador Bozovic, don't throw like a bar – what you're looking at and all. It's inappropriate for a national MP. (Balsa Bozovic: There's something frowning. Do you mind if someone frowns? (Balsa Bozovic: The garbage, which frowns. Then don't come to the sessions. Don't be a frowner, this and that. Now is the excuse to shout like a bar, what you look at, what you look at. (Balsa Bozovic: There is no need for this. There are needs. There are really needs, I'm here to take care of Parliament's dignity, so I don't allow the bar dictionary here. I thank the MPs. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the Assembly to approach the vote and select proposed candidates. Since the conditions have been met, I propose that I establish my mandate to the MPs in the National Assembly, for vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given the RIK's decision to grant the mandate of MPs, to fill the seats of MPs in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MPs of the people, Mr Dejan Radenkovic, elected from the list Ivica Dačić SPS-JS Dragan Markovic Palm and Ružica Nikolic, elected from the election list by Dr Vojislav Seselj SRS. On the basis of the decision of the RIK and the report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate for MPs Mr Dejan Radenkovic and Ruzica Nikolic. Congratulations to the MPs. Please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, honest, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and minority rights and civil liberties and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." Thank you. I invite you to sign only your oaths and congratulate you once again on your behalf and on behalf of the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I wish you successful work. Thank you. We continue to work, the word has a folk MP, Balsa Bozovic. Please don't throw in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18831	I would like to thank the President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the public, I cannot say that as a representative of the citizens, since the debate has been under way for two days and has turned into something that is not the subject of this agenda. So I have to look at myself as a representative of the citizens and at the very beginning give Sasa Jankovic a confession for ten years of professional performance of the Protector of Citizens. In addition to all the media attacks he has endured, he has preserved the independence of the Citizens' Protectors institution with all the tabloid attacks, and for ten years the institution has really functioned in such a way that we have received even European recognitions. What is very important for us today is that we mention that Milos Jankovic, in our opinion, is the most qualified candidate to be the Protector of citizens in Serbia, the current performer of duty, because we believe that in one very professional way so far he has helped Sashi Jankovic to make a single institution out of the post, i.e. the Protector of Citizens, in which citizens have first of all trust. I don't think we're going in the right direction, since you didn't want the consensus to choose the Citizens' Protector, which is why you put it within party membership on one side and we don't think that's good. We believe this is just another funeral of an independent institution so that you can exercise terror in peace. Here is only the point of whether you're for the rule of law or whether you're for the terror of power. That is the essence of today and yesterday's debate, and that is what today is about this agenda. The rule of law is the biggest interference of the SNS in implementing what citizens have felt in their skin for five years, and that is terror of the authorities. It is that citizens no longer believe in independent institutions, it is that citizens no longer believe that courts are independent, that there is a judicial branch of government in general as one that can resist the pressure of the executive authority. Yesterday and today, the representatives of the courts, the President of the Supreme Cassation Court in Serbia, sat here, and what is very important is that I also hold here a report on the work of all courts and the Supreme Court of Cassation, and that is what, according to the independent survey itself and the anonymous poll itself, the judges themselves said that in most cases there is pressure from the executive authority and that the judiciary as a branch of government is absolutely not independent today in Serbia. For this reason, the regime continues to practice extra-political institutions to take care of only one small group of people at the top of the government, their economic and political interests while citizens are absolutely elsewhere. When it comes to independent authorities and the protection of citizens, it is saddened when the head of the largest parliamentary club in the Republika Srpska Assembly says independent authorities have taken over the role of the opposition. It is sad that the government considers the opposition anyone who does his job honestly, honorably and professionally, who respects the law, who respects the Constitution. Also earlier, the president of the National Assembly spoke about some taking advantage of their functions to become what she said was "pop old" in Serbia, including Sasa Jankovic, Rodoljub Sabic and many others. I don't think it's about them being "pop old," but it's "pop old" for you in Serbia, anyone who does his job fairly and honestly, who respects the law, who advocates the rule of law, every judge who manages to resist the pressure of the executive authority, every officer who's been removed because he's done his job honestly, every civil servant who's not corrupt, "pop old" is in this country every citizen who manages to survive next to this destructive government, here we are in the sixth year of that government. It's obvious we're skating towards the Turkish script. It is obvious that it will be similar in Serbia one day to cut off the heads of political opponents and political insinuators. It is obvious that this corresponds to those who wish only to exercise terror by the authorities, and certainly to the rule of law. What is love for Serbia? Love for Serbia is measured, it was also mentioned by the President of the Assembly, love for Serbia is measured whether it exists and whether you have established the rule of law and the rule of institutions in it, or whether you have imposed the terror of a small few people who exclusively care about their political and economic interests. Not love for Serbia is the height of the mast or tens of thousands of open places for party SNS activists, nor is a stenogram worn by foreign embassies, love for Serbia is the rule of law on which tomorrow depends whether the workers in Fiat will have guaranteed, the law fulfil their rights, or some workers tomorrow, in another factory, or in another institution, will be able to fulfill their labour and human rights or not. The rule of law is much more for Serbia than mere words, it depends on whether political life will continue in institutions or, as the president of the assembly said, on the street. It is exclusively up to you, who are doing everything you can to bring down another independent institution and to conquer everything in this country, all power, every independent body, every independent institution, and today we cannot talk about the rule of law in Serbia. Citizens today cannot exercise their human and civil rights. For that reason, we will not vote for your party proposal, for Mr Pasalic. We believe that not only is it not qualified, but we believe that it is exclusively set up by the narrow circle of people, the environment of Aleksandr Vukic to protect the narrow, economic and political interests of the party in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18832	Thank you. Right on the line, Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18833	Just for a moment, to answer the honourable MP Balša Bozovic, he did not understand, and he did not try to understand my presentation. I must repeat to him, that Sasa Jankovic, Rodoljub Sabic, made up of functions that you once tried to perform independently, and later exclusively by dealing with politics and preparing the ground for their candidacys, made persons who were darkened, so if you don't like the term “pop old”, then certainly the stars of Granda, maybe it's more acceptable to you, so you will accept that they have become more popular in our country and than others who are professionally engaged in esthetical work, thinking nothing bad about rock stars, or those who deal with other kinds of music. No, they've long stopped being independent organs. It is a great challenge for Mr Pasalić and some future officials, or representatives, as you say, of the independent authorities in our country, that they are truly professionally in accordance with the law and the powers that exist in this law are performing their duties. Sasa Jankovic stopped doing it a long time ago. The only thing he liked when he ran for president of the Republic of Serbia was the use of resources he still had as Protector of the Citizens, as he was until the end of the election campaign. He just resigned as Protector of the Citizens when the election was called, knowing that we won't be able to replace him, and of course the car used it. I don't know what his independence from state resources is looking at. Not to mention, he was very pleased to receive a salary of 3,500 euros all the time. So much for his independence. You know, every single citizen of this country whose name... Don't blink, you resented me on Twitter, you said I had ticks, so your fans on social networks are going to criticize you for the shortcomings you have, because they think that those shortcomings are something that's not good too.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18834	Time, thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica! ) Mr Bozovicu, you do not have the right to reply, Mrs Gojkovic only further explained. (Balsa Bozovic: How come I don't have one? No, you didn't understand her. She didn't do anything, she just gave an additional explanation for what you asked, you didn't get it. (Balsa Bozovic: This doesn't really make sense. Let's move on. The word has Alexander Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18835	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I said yesterday that the opposition in Serbia is weak, that the opposition in Serbia today is made up of a make-up woman, and you know who it is, one or more actresses and a few scribblings on Twitter and Facebook who publish the greatest possible abominations about Alexander Vukic, his family and us from the SNS. Because you are weak and weak, the role of the opposition, among other things, must be played by Rodoljub Sabic, in violation of the Constitution and the law. That this is also said by the fact that Mr Sabic, who receives salary from the Serbian budget, in today's Sunday, so this is "The Sunday Day" from July 20th 2017, made a statement on several pages entitled "The opposition has a chance to conquer Belgrade, the only question is whether he will be able to take advantage of it". Says Mr. Sabic, an independent information expert of public importance – Belgrade is my city, I love it more than anyone else, and in it I especially love the neighborhood where I live, Savamalu. Now everyone lives in Savamala. He goes on to say, "That's why I'm very interested in an architectural venture, and that's not a secret. I don't have any sympathy for him. All of this is in his job description, all of this in the case of "Beograda on Water" from the beginning was problematic, burdened, least of all, by controversy and culminating in the night of the Herzegovic event, which has become a symbolic confirmation of the rule of law in our country, says in an interview with "Nedjeljnik" Rodoljub Sabic, the Commissioner for Public Information and Data Protection, which is mentioned as a possible candidate for the Belgrade mayor. So, because you are weak, weak, you have no idea, you have nothing else to do except post dead people after Alexander Vukić on Twitter and Facebook, then Rodoljub Sabic, as Sasa Jankovic did, must take over the role of the opposition and do your job. That, of course, violates the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18836	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18837	Article 104, directly committed breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think you had to give, in accordance with Article 1, the replica of MP Balša Bozovic. I think you had to give it to him, because that's where it's said - if it's offensive, and I really didn't insult anyone, but it's important that I said his name and, more importantly, I misread his exposure. I must admit that his statements are so incomprehensible that it's hard to understand what he was even trying to say, so in my opinion, you were obliged to allow him to try to interpret the public of Serbia for the second or third time what he was actually going to say. Thank you. I won't ask, if you think you're still standing by your point of view, you don't want to make it right, I won't ask.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18838	I don't think I broke it because there was absolutely no offensive connotation on your part. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18839	Dignity, Article 107(1) So, the chairman, it is evident that you have violated the Rules of Procedure. You didn't give me your word, and I had the right to win the line. On the other hand, you gave the replica to Mr. Martinovic, who absolutely did not deserve it, nor did he deserve this Rules of Procedure. Do not make the Assembly, if you are already making it out of independent institutions in Serbia and the Protectors of Citizens, and you allow it to be spoken of in this way about Rodoljub Sabic, then do not and from the Assembly to create the SNS's main board. I think it's really more than...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18840	Please don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18841	All institutions are occupied by the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18842	So, you pointed out a breach of the Rules of Procedure, no need to mention, there was a quality congregation debate here. Thank you for your injury, but I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18843	Of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18844	Thank you very much. According to the Rules of Procedure, Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18845	Mr Vice-President, you have injured Article 103 because every MP has the right to orally point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure in accordance with Rule 104 and is entitled to a replica also if his name and function are mentioned. Ambassador Balsa Bozovic said – and the president of the parliamentary group, etc. I don't know if Balsa Bozovic knows he's head of the SNS parliamentary group Aleksandar Martinovic? If he found out, he would come to parliament more often, he would realize that you did not violate the Rules of Procedure and that, based on the mention of the function of the head of the parliamentary group, you gave Alexander Martinovic a word. I won't ask, this is just a lesson to MP Balša Bozovic to monitor the exhibition carefully, his first and foremost. So it's important to monitor the flow of thought and what you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18846	Thank you very much. Although, as you said earlier, it's very difficult to follow, but I'm trying. The word has Alexander Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18847	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Mrs. Gojkovic has already explained, therefore, Mr. Bozovic said -- the president of the SNS parliamentary group said yesterday that Rodoljub Sabic is involved in politics. Mr Bozovicu, don't defend Rodoljub Sabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18848	Talk to me, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18849	Here, I'm talking to you, Mr. Marinkovic. So the role of Rodoljub Šabić is to defend them because they are weak, because they are worth nothing, because they fight for censorship. So they should not defend Rodoljub Sabic, but Rodoljub Shabic defend them. He's a candidate for mayor of Belgrade. He is not a candidate for Belgrade Mayor Balsa Bozovic, because no one will vote for him, but Rodoljub Sabic is the mayor's candidate. So we have a paradoxical situation here that doesn't exist in any democratic state, which is that the state body, Rodoljub Sabic, is not an independent regulatory body, I tried to explain yesterday, but it seems I failed, so it is no independent regulatory body, but it is a state body leading a political coup against the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, against the Government of the Republic of Serbia and against the SNS. He is not someone for us who does his job in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Someone will ask me, and why do we not release him? Same reason we didn't solve Sasha Jankovic. Let him freely use state resources, and a big salary, and an official car, and a computer, and Twitter at work, and walk the puppies, let him help DS and everyone else, but we're not gonna make a martyr out of him. We want to beat him, although he uses state resources, as we convincingly defeated Sasa Jankovic, who received 16% of the votes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18850	Thank you. The word is Maja Vidinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18851	Mr. Chairman, please listen carefully. This time I'm talking to you. The most brutal abuse of the Rules of Procedure for which you are responsible, giving is...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18852	Specify a member.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18853	Exactly, if you'll allow me, in half a sentence to quote a member, of course I will.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18854	Sure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18855	... in violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I warn you and introduce you to the members from 103 to 108 on the way you give your word, on which you give your word...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18856	Set yourself up, name a member, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18857	I suppose you know the acquisition of the Rules of Procedure, which means that at the same time, I have to give you credit, that you have at the same time violated several members of the Rules of Procedure, look at the stenogram, exactly which I have stated, don't waste my time on something like that. What we're experiencing here from a member of the SNS, something that we made very clear yesterday what it would look like, a blow to independent institutions, the silence of everyone...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18858	Thank you for your order, for your violation of the Rules of Procedure. You're experiencing a parliamentary debate, a political denbar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18859	Please, I'm not finished. I insist you let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18860	I won't let you rephrase simply and talk about what we're experiencing here. We're having a political debate, a normal debate, as you're experiencing it now, I don't know. Thank you very much. (Goran Ciric: Please, why are you doing this.) Thank you very much. Let's move on. Who else is answering the Rules of Procedure? (Maya Vidinovic: I report to the Rules of Procedure.) I'm checking in with the Rules of Procedure again. ) The word is Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18861	I ask the Honorable President to pay attention to Article 3. In 108, and to consider the abuse of the Rules of Procedure in the last few minutes, and the MPs using an infringement institution of the Rules of Procedure, which is rarely used in normal democratic systems for replicas and speech-making because their parliamentary groups have spent a certain amount of time. Please think about it, maybe apply the measure or return the discussion to your currents and continue calling out MPs who want to discuss the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18862	Thank you. Here you go. Take it easy, you'll all get your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18863	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a whole series of, indeed, members of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, the dignity of the National Assembly. Please warn those who earn. A 27th member has been injured, saying the president of the National Assembly is representing the National Assembly, calling meetings, chairing them and doing other tasks in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure. Well, he goes on to say -- the president of the Assembly takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, and then Article 32 says -- the president of the Assembly, in the event of temporary prevention or absence, Maja Gojkovic is still, as far as I know, the president of the Assembly. We haven't been informed of the resignations. Right? Did she resign, perhaps? Let us know we can work. So, Maja Gojkovic, if you're already talking...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18864	Please, what difference does it make now, I don't understand?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18865	Well, you'll understand, Mr. Marinkovitch, when you hear. You try to be like those... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18866	Please, let me explain. (Imanja Sarovic: So listen to me, to explain the injury. Just one moment. Wait, I have to take a break if you behave like this. (Nenja Sarovic: So listen to me within these two minutes. First you let me tell you. (Inemnja Sarovic: No, you gave me your word and please allow me to explain, I have the right to do so. Nothing, I'm setting a five-minute break, so we keep working, since we don't have simple conditions. MPs earn, mention some things that have nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure and the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18867	The word is Aleksandar Markovic and Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18868	I thank the chairman. The honourable representatives of the promoters, although they are not with us at this moment, have probably not yet come from the break, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the chairman, I will not take note of all that is the previous speaker, that there is no confusion, the previous speaker on the list of speakers, so here he spoke earlier, but I will briefly refer to today's proposals, among other things, the proposal for a choice of the Citizens' Protectors. Right at the beginning of my presentation, therefore, to point out that I support the proposal that Mr Pasalic be elected to the post. Mr Pasalic, who was proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. I have no objection to the explanation that follows this proposal. I have no objections to the procedure. I have no objection to the motion itself, as well as to the biography of the proposed candidate because it is unequivocal and the debate we have had the opportunity to hear it found to meet all the conditions laid down by law. Conditions laid down by the Law on the Protector of Citizens, which establishes the Protector of Citizens as an independent state body that protects the rights of citizens and controls the work of the authorities of the state administration, as well as other bodies, organisations, enterprises, institutions entrusted with public authority. What I want to point out is that my personal belief is that Mr. Pasalić will perform this function very well. So, professionally and responsibly, savingly is the most important thing. In any case, it will be better done incomparably than did by the former Citizens' Protector, the former Citizens' Protector, who is Sasa Jankovic. So it's certainly better because it's not hard to be better. In that sense, in front of Mr Pasalic, it is not such a difficult task. It only takes, and only to uphold the Constitution and the law, at every place and at every moment. That's what's important. The most important thing is to uphold the law. So, to do what Mr. Sasa Jankovic didn't do and not do everything Sasa Jankovic did. Because if we analyze how Jankovic did it, even though the previous speaker here pointed out some praises about his work, so he pointed out the preservation of independence and so on, absolute nonsense. I must ask the question, therefore, and you ask him, Mr. Chairman, and where he lived all these years, as if he had not lived in Belgrade, as if he had not seen how Sasa Jankovic functioned. If the Law on the Protector of Citizens has strictly prescribed in several members that the Protector of Citizens and his deputies cannot do anything about politics. So, I'm going to quote, it's Article 9 that says that the Protector of Citizens and Deputy Protector of Citizens can't be members of political parties. We also have a member of 10a, which is even more important – the Protector of Citizens and Deputy Protector of Citizens cannot give statements of political nature. We had a whole series of examples that Mr. Sasa Jankovic was exactly what he was doing, so he was in politics and he was in daily politics. If you ask me, he was a politician, he was involved in attacks on SNS and Alexander Vukic, and he did it all the time. So he did it in a very perfidious way by using his position, therefore, his function was misused. And he also used it, Madam Chairman, that some in this country made him some sort of protected white bear, so for a time there was the greatest sin in Serbia, so the biggest possible scandal would have turned out if someone dared to say something about Sasha Jankovic, Protector of the Citizens, to point out how a man broke the law, that he did not adhere to the law. It would immediately be placed on a pillar of shame as it threatens democracy, as it threatens to God, I don't know, human rights, freedom, as it inhibits European integration, civilizational fluids and so on. They tried to make him a protected white bear that you can't say anything about, not even when the thing is true, not when we catch him in a conscious violation of the law. And let's remember his attacks, both on the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defense. For months, he led the entire campaign against the Serbian Army, against the military police, the VBA, etc. It was 2014 and 2015. That's what the previous speaker doesn't remember, like he lived somewhere else. Maybe he was abroad then, in the Maldives, right, Mr. Vujovic? Oh, no, he winters in the Maldives. We remember when he was able to abuse the official position, which was spoken of by counterpart Marijan Rističević, when he was adjudicating both parking places and official vehicles and not only official vehicles, but private vehicles, about which the press had written countless times. I do not want this opportunity, the chairman, to launch the "Pistol" affair and the whole story from his youth, which leaves every decent citizen of Serbia feeling sick or sick. But overpowering, breaking the law, dealing with day-to-day politics, with the abovementioned haughtiness, and all with the astronomical salary he received, e, these are the moments that marked his performance. And the only moments that marked his performance. I will allow myself to make a joke – so the Citizens' Protector Sasa Jankovic became the patron of Sasa Jankovic's citizen. And that's the only thing he's become famous for, unfortunately. Fortunately, Serbia's citizens have "broken" into it, as it has passed in the elections. He's been very infamous, which is what the head of our parliamentary group was talking about a little while ago. For all these reasons, I would like to tell Mr. Pasalić that he needs to do everything Sasa Jankovic has not done and that she is not doing everything that Sasa Jankovic has only done and I think it is a successful recipe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18869	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18870	Basically, these three points of the agenda are staff issues, and in some other circumstances and conditions, it might be routine. But there's been further complications here, because through these personnel issues and personnel solutions, we're looking at the policies of both the former and the current authorities. What's in common for both? It is common – a man who was in the position of the Protector of the Citizens. Both now, with the same grill and the same heat, they're talking positively and negatively about the same personality. And neither of them had a direct impact on the choice of the person in the function. And just once again to draw attention to the public of Serbia – we have repeatedly pointed to the harmfulness of Sasa Jankovic's actions. We Serbian radicals did not do this because we have something for or against names, but to prevent the consequences, the devastating consequences for those of us living in Serbia. And at one point, even the current president of Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic, realized how potentially dangerous he could be and set off fiercely, primarily in the political reckoning of the Citizens' Protectors. But what happened? In public view, the ambassador of America, Scott not Skat, held a meeting with Alexander Vukic, and then all the praises went to Sasa Jankovic. And now we are witnesses, when there is no longer a need by America, or the American ambassador for such a person as Sasa Jankovic, it is now free to attack him, it is now free to hit all available political means on that person. That's quite clear. And this play, this farce you're making, don't think that the citizens of Serbia will see it, especially those living in Belgrade's territory. You call each other to use the right to replicate, to have as much space as possible, in order to record the results in the Belgrade elections as possible. But it's been seen, too. What is very important and important, to take advantage of this moment, it is -- on the case of Sasa Jankovic, to point out the fate of all those who think that unlimited trust in them is by officials of the American Embassy. They do, while they're useful. They do, while serving America's goal in Serbia. When they use them, when they don't need them anymore, they throw them like toilet paper. Here, we had a chance to see. Sasa Jankovic, as the Protector of Citizens, was an exceptional figure to try to unite the opposition at the estimate of US services. I say - try, because they were aware that it was impossible to unite something that was completely torn apart. But they used Sasa Jankovic to eventually put additional pressure on Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party, letting them know that they could return those they once brought to power. And the whole ravine was going on until the moment the Americans themselves convinced themselves that Sasha Jankovic had no use at all, no value at all. They knew he wasn't worth it, that he was a man who was compromised, who had a suspicion that he was involved in a murder, who had a lot of these compromising actions, but they were looking for that kind of personality. Besides, you're witnesses, too, when you're obedient, when you're a servant, when you're at the service of US Ambassador Scott, he praises you, he tells the birthday girls about you. And when you are not, He warns you in the worst way possible. You see, you've now come to a situation that perhaps for the first time since Sasha Jankovic, someone leads, under the name of an independent humanist policy. For this reason, the Serbian Radical Party has been invited to run for a woman who has brilliantly graduated from Law School, who is young by age, but relatively is who is young and who is old. As they say, there's not enough life experience. But from our best intentions, we wanted to offer Serbia a position of independence from any foreign influence. And you are now in a position to bring some of your personnel solution to a man who will be in charge. Whether your personnel solution is good or not, that's already a big question mark. We'll see about that in the future. But if he's willing to, he'll be praised, raised to the biggest pedestal, and if he doesn't, it'll be worse than what you're talking about Sasha Jankovic. What's very interesting is that we are trying, Serbian radicals, to help you as much as we can and as much as you appreciate it. We're trying to convince you to stop the continuity of running the wrong economic policy. One segment of this wrong economic policy is also seen in the Fiscal Council. You inherited it. Mladjan Dinkic came up with that wetwork, with the full support of the International Humanitarian Fund. He needed someone to fund the opposition, someone to be on duty. Why? And he's got some experience that's been known since before. The communists, when they saw that their system was imminently failing, sought opposition in their ranks, so they determined it was the opposition. Mladjan Dinkic is much more cautious, much more vispredicate, when it comes to marifettelucs, especially when it comes to thieving. He left you the fiscal advice that you choose on a continuous basis. And what is the essence of your council? The advisory body, as the name of that body itself speaks, but it has no role. As they would say, as a divine guide, the thread helps, nor does it get away. But hold them, because they please you, because a certain... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18871	You've wasted your time. Thank you. Replica was reported by MP Aleksandar Martinovic. The president of the Serbian Progressive Party is mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18872	I thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. It seems to me that Mr. Mircic has very good contacts at the U.S. Embassy as soon as he's very familiar with some meetings with the American ambassador. Or did the American ambassador convince him of coffee? I don't know about that meeting. But it doesn't matter that much now. What is more important is that Alexander Vucic did not start attacking Sasa Jankovic, but Sasa Jankovic began to play the opposition in Serbia for two to three years, to turn from someone to control the work of the government in Serbia to political opponent Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. And nothing terrible happened to him. This is where the previous speaker spoke -- here, look what happened to Sasha Jankovic, it could happen to someone else, it happened to him, it happened to him. Well, nothing terrible happened to him. The man's head didn't fall off his shoulders. He just lost the election, just like you. That's what happened to him. But the problem is that someone was running for President of the Republic, resigned two or three days before the presidential election was called, and the function of the Protector of the Citizens did not cease on the day of his resignation, but on the day he was resolved by the National Assembly and he was constantly using state resources in the campaign, official cars, phones, offices, money, etc. So he didn't go on the campaign as a citizen. He went on the campaign as the Protector of Citizens. And what the SNS pointed to, and what it will always point to, is that there is no such example in any European country. If you give me one such example, I'll be grateful, but he's gone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18873	Time. Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Milorad Mircic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18874	I'd like to reply immediately through you, President, to a colleague of honor. We can Serbian radicals lose or win elections, but we haven't lost face. When a man loses it, it's hard to bring him back. The citizens of Serbia will assess how useful it is or how negative the policy led by individual political parties is, but what you lose, and in the people's name is cheek, you will never regain again. You can be the spokesman of whoever you want. As far as information goes, when everything pops up to the surface, everything pops up, everything shows up. Contacts with embassies, not only American, but also others, are already revealed things. The individuals who contacted each other know each other. What would you bid me here? I don't have any needs, or any of the Serbian radicals, to justify ourselves, where we get the information. Well, the whole public of Serbia saw in front of TV cameras when the conflict was under way politically between Aleksandar Vukic and Sasa Jankovic, that the US ambassador had intervened, that Alexander Vukic had immediately made a statement that there were no problems in co-operation and that he was glad that Sasa Jankovic was looking for information that had been denied him because of possibly military secrecy. Let me remind you, and also the public, that was when Bratislava Gasic was military minister. It was all in public, in front of the cameras. There is no need for any secret meetings, and far away, especially for us Serbian radicals. We do everything transparently, publicly, in public, we bring out all the data we get and everything we know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18875	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand that some people think that only they have a monopoly on what's called cheek. They are honorable, they are honest, they are consistent and then when they are speakers of Bojan Pajtic and when they are spokesmen of Vojislav Seselj, and all this is great. But what is not true in what the distinguished predecessor said is the words of Alexander Wolfich. Aleksandar Vukic said he doesn't mind and is ready to co-operate with Sasa Jankovic, but implies that Sasa Jankovic is doing her job as the Citizens' Protector. What is the job of the Protector of Citizens writes in Article 138. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and it is written in Article. 17 to 23. The Civil Protection Act. It controls the legality of the work of the state administration authority, the bodies protecting property rights and the interests of the Republic of Serbia and the entities entrusted with public authority. Yesterday, due to the lack of time, I failed to finish it, I only read some sentences from the Citizens' Protector's 2015 report, which shows that the Citizens' Protector is completely contrary to the Constitution and the law in his report, which he submits to the National Assembly, is concerned with commenting on what Aleksandar Vukic said at a press conference, as Interior Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic said, whether the effects of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which he does not have the right to control, give his results or give his results. So Sasa Jankovic knowingly and deliberately broke the Constitution and the law, ran for the president of the Republic and was defeated to his feet. We want the new Citizens' Protector Zoran Pasalic to not take the example of Sasa Jankovic, to respect the Constitution, to respect the law, and everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18877	Time. Thank you. It's clear everything the MPs wanted to say. The word is made by MP Aleksandra Tomic, who is the authority of the proposing representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18878	Thank you. Just so we don't live in the error of a previously respected colleague who claims that the Fiscal Council is a child left to us by Mladjan Dinkic, I would only say that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budgetary System was adopted in 2010. So it couldn't have been that congregation majority at the time, which was also leading the finances, and the prime minister who was before that was the finance minister, and when an institution like the Fiscal Council was established. So their work started in 2011. You can see on their site exactly what I'm talking about, the opposite of what was your point of view, which is that one of the first analyses on May 17th was an analysis of fiscal effects compared to the new model of decentralisation that the U.S.S.A. made as a proposal. He then worked on an analysis of fiscal effects in relation to reports made until then in terms of overall finance and budgetary relations, not only of certain ministries, but also of the new policies that were being adopted, which were, above all, those relating to the increase in wages and pensions, those relating to the definition of tax cuts, thus reducing budgetary income and then practically began to choke the institution that did not even start its work. Why? In all of their draft reports, which are, of course, the most transparent way presented to the public with press conferences, with the site that had since had had the opportunities and statements they had given, it is evident that the budget deficits and then the evaluation of 30 September 2011 said that unless the budget deficit has been reduced, and it is 35 billion dinars, and it does not make such adjustments and adopt changes and additions to the Law on the financing of local self-government, that there will be a rationalisation of costs and adjustment of another 40 billion dinars, that under these conditions, if there is no such change, there will be a breach of public debt above 45%, an increase of the budget deficit of 4.5% of GDP, and there will be an uncontrolled budget management, i.e. that fiscal policy will no longer be able to be controlled in a sustainable way, which, of course, was shown by the previous year's 2012 budgets still not yet in the previous year's 2012 budget. So there was no IMF, the IMF came, but they went head-on because they saw that they just didn't have anyone to talk to. They don't have to talk to someone who wants to implement any economic reforms and fiscal consolidation, to deal with an irresponsible government that simply couldn't stop public finances at all. On one side of the local budgets, money was spent as they wanted. On the other hand, the Republic had no insight into such spending. And you now have to sit here some people who have three budgets of their local self-government are in advance in charge of leaving their future colleagues to deal with these problems. And now they lecture us on how the current situation is much worse than when they ran those local self-governments. So, the Fiscal Council is one institution which, of course, like all Member States, not only the EU, but also countries in the region, should have precisely because they have certain corrective factors in society and which should be some raising the public finance scale in one sustainable way, with new standards towards which Serbia is seeking to go. What makes it necessary to respect the care of institutions, is that you must not choke them. On the other hand, we agree with each of their estimates. Whether we can or are able as a state to respect all these recommendations, that's on the other side, but such an institution should exist, they should do opinions. After all, constitutional law and legal right have to do their job, and it is our job to discuss it here in cooperation with them. For this reason, I think that it is unjustly linked to certain political factors and individual international financial organisations their operation and their work. They tend not to deal with politics, and in the past period, from 2011 to today, they exclusively deal with numbers, forecasts. I therefore believe that today, too, they are proposed by all relevant entities to continue their work. Of course, every political party wants to have a good dialogue with certain institutions with which they don't even share the same opinions, and I think that's exactly the size of the SNS that suggests these candidates and those proposings who sent the Finance Committee to continue to have this kind of Fiscal Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18879	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Natasa Vučković. You have another minute and 48 seconds from the parliamentary group. Do you want to?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18880	Since I have very little time, because all my fellow MPs wanted to talk about this important topic, I just want to repeat three, four more from our performances so far. First of all, the whole way that most of us are managing this debate in this congregation today is in favour of the fact that most, that is, this government, do not suffer to have control. So, the attitude towards independent institutions in general shows this also towards the Anti-Corruption Agency and REM and, ultimately, now according to the way we choose the Citizens' Protector. We had another candidate. We have managed that to do so requires a person who is committed to human rights, who is able to cultivate a culture of human rights, who ultimately has some continuity in the work of this institution. We think it's extremely important, because it's a young institution. We think it's extremely important, because it's a young institution. So there are about 10 years and Sasa Jankovic is not the very Protector of the Citizens. That's where we have to make that difference. He contributed to make this institution independent, to have procedures, to have a culture, to have a way of working, and that's something we should appreciate. It is a big challenge for Pasalic, who will obviously be elected, whether he will be able to continue. Sasa Jankovic, when he was the Guardian of Citizens, reminds me of the Law on Electronic Communications when DS was in power, we were in a great conflict over the law, then he said that the law is contrary to the Constitution and the law therefore internal affairs have the opportunity to have insight into certain citizens' data. We were with him at the time in a great conflict. The same way he acted when she was Savamala, the same way it was when she was BIA, etc. These are the tasks of the Protector of the Citizens. I ask only the question to Pasalić – will he be willing, willing to protect the interests of the citizens in such situations, because we choose the Protector of the Citizens, to have the citizens' trust in him, and not the majority and power? That's the essence of our debate today.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18881	Thank you. The DS Group has wasted its time. The word has a folk MP, Dusica Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18882	President-in-Office, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today I will talk about the proposal for a decision on the election of the Citizens' Protectors who tabled the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives on July 14th of this year. The application procedure has passed in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia, above all I mean the Law on the Protector of Citizens. The Committee shall, in accordance with Article 4. The Law on the Protector of Citizens, considered and established a proposal to elect the Protector of Citizens. At this session of the Committee mentioned, it was decided that the proposal by Mr Zoran Pasalic, a candidate for the Protector of Citizens, was addressed to the National Assembly for consideration, and we have been discussing this for the past two days. Mr. Zoran Pasalić's biography is really impressive. We have 11 pages of text delivered to all MPs in the National Assembly. It was also delivered to the general public and everyone can be informed and familiar with the rich work biography and experience of Mr Pasalić. As I have already said today in addition to the Citizens' Protectors, we are also still discussing the re-election of members of the Fiscal Council, then members of the Anti-Corruption Agency, and in today's speech I will actually deal with the candidateship of the Citizens' Protector. The candidate for the Protector of Citizens, Mr. Zoran Pasalic, graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, completed his master's studies at the Faculty of Organizational Sciences. Also, he's currently in doctoral studies and has a rich work experience. It began with the law office, through the City Court for Violations in Belgrade, the office of the President of the Higher Criminal Court and has been appointed president of the Criminal Court since 31 October 2017. So, a really rich working résumé on over 11 pages. I'm not going to give you all the details from his biography. He absolutely has my support and support for the SNS and all those parliamentary groups that signed and proposed his candidacy. What I'm saying is, Mr. Pasalic was the head of a number of projects. All the time, he was perfecting himself in the field of legal science. However, I will not, as my predecessors, who praised Mr. Sasu Jankovic when he was elected in 2007, use too much praise, but I will follow his work as a folk MP and I will appreciate his actions, because the works are always more and more speaking than words we can judge about a functioner and a chosen and appointed person. I would like to tell the candidate for the Protector of the Citizens of Zoran Pasalic: not to be a false Protector of the Citizens. Previous Citizens' Protector Mr. Sasa Jankovic was doing everything contrary to the Law on the Protector of Citizens. That's what the facts say. The man, full of two mandates, used his own, so to speak, the law that was not in the law, he was in politics, so to speak, he was in politics, because that's not real politics. The real policy is politics when you go to the public, when you have your own program, when you say what is the new political idea you want to deal with, and this is a simple policy. Also, the fake Citizens' Protector resigned only at the time he raised funds for his personal campaign, when he gathered his sponsors, when he brought together old DOS relics, those wastes that remained from DOS and then dared to go to the polls and accept the bid in the presidential elections. Although he was a false Protector of the citizens, this Protector of the Citizens received the right pay. That real salary was 370,000 dinars. What on earth was that Citizen Protector doing for such high money? What was he doing at work? What did his work day look like? The fake Citizens' Protector tweeted, walked his houses, rode his bike, used state resources for his own presidential campaign, also used his official cars, secretaries, fuel, phones, printers, some state resources paid from the Republika Srpska budget. Did he work in the interest of the citizens as every ombudsman in the world does? It's not. Did he protect their rights? Are the citizens who spoke to him for help satisfied with his work? No, they're not. If they did, they'd get more than a 14-, 15-percent mark in the presidential election. His policy as Protectors of citizens of Serbia was recognised in time. You can't fool a Serb host so easily to give you your vote. You can't lie to him that easily to support you by voting on election day, rounding the name in the presidential election. These Serbian hosts are smarter than any such candidate for Serbia's president. False Citizens' Protector's policy experienced a fiasco in previous presidential elections. She beat SNS policy and Alexander Vukic's policy. I remind Serbian citizens, Aleksandar Vukic won 56% of the vote, which is a historic victory. It's a victory that many in the opposition will truly be unattainable for a long, long time. Now I'd like to ask you a question. How can the false Citizens' Protector assess the legality of other authorities in the Republic of Serbia when he himself did not comply with the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? To be honest, Serbian citizens pay more than 3,000 euros a month to protect their rights, to care for good administration. Previously, the fake Citizen Protector was just taking care of his personal interests. To him it was important to satisfy his personal pocket, he was pleased that he was engaged in his presidential candidacy, although the elections had not yet been called. He was engaged in public performances in the media throughout Serbia, attacking Alexander Vukic and his closest associates. The conclusion is imposed itself, he was overpaid for his unhappiness. Clearly, he did not protect the citizens who spoke to him for help. He protected himself, his own pocket, and his sick political ambitions. Today, at the meeting of the Administrative Committee, we have reached a decision on the code of conduct of the Members of the People, on the limits of being allowed to comment on court decisions. Te, I won't talk about the "Pistol" affair and I won't talk about it, I won't ask the question of how Predrag Gojkovic was killed, where the powder particles on the hands of the concerned, I won't use those details, but what I'm going to say is I'm going to ask the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia to investigate this case, for the sake of the truth and for the sake of the general public, to inform us as far as the case has come. I'm bringing an end to my exposure. I really want to say that I respect the role of the institution that the Citizens' Protector has in the Republic of Serbia. The public defender is, by law, an independent and independent state body, in charge of protecting and promoting respect for freedom and rights, he enjoys immunity that enables him to be independent and independent in his work. I remind you, the Manchester is an institution adopted by the Swedish Parliament back in 1809 to control the executive government. The very word “Ombudsman ” comes from Swedish and marks a person who hears for his people. Has the predecessor heard of his people? Today, the Galactic is an incoherent state body that is ageing and promoting human rights and freedoms. In its legal order, the Republic of Serbia adopted the Law on the Protection of Citizens as early as 2005. The existence of this institution was established by the 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and the Ombudsman of the citizens of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted it, i.e. Sasa Jankovic took office on July 23rd 2007. He had another mandate adopted by the Assembly in 2012. What I want to say, indeed, once again, I respect the independence of the institution, one such institution is important that it exists in the Republic of Serbia, but is the current V.D. Also some Jankovic, Milos Jankovic, is he still doing his job? Does he do a job paid for by the Republic of Serbia's budget money? That Milos Jankovic has not responded to the inscriptions of a tabloid that has been on the table for days, for weeks the most odious lies and lies about President Aleksandar Vukic. Why isn't this officer responding in a case like this? Why doesn't he take care of his job, why isn't he responsible for his job, for which he's paid fat? Why is it that simply a man, also named Jankovic, who is currently in the position of the performer, does not react in order to stop this ride? You know, you've got Mr. Alexander Vukic and V.D.'s death on Twitter. The public defender doesn't react. I will not now quote a number of irregularities that my colleague Martinovic was talking about, which are all cases all, when the independent authorities of the Republic of Serbia did not respond. There are many more cases, I can name many more questions. Why Milos Jankovic v.d. The citizens' protector did not fence from the political functioning of his predecessor, so there are still a lot of questions, but I would not now, I will give opportunities to other MPs to engage in the discussion. I want to say next. The phenomena that are happening to us on the Serbian political scene must be publicly condemned. We have today's "Blica" number, which quoted "The Weekly" as saying -- I can't tell you which of the politicians suggested I run for mayor. Rodoljub Sabic, the Commissioner for Public Information and Data Protection, said he had received proposals for mayor Belgrade's candidacy, but did not make it clear that he had not thought seriously about them. So, does the institution of an independent state body allow you to run, whether it's city, local, presidential elections, do you use that function to protect citizens' interests? Are you acting in accordance with the Law which clearly prescribes your jurisdiction or are you involved in politics? It's easy, Mr. Sabic, Jankovic, make up your mind. You're getting paid from the RS budget to do your job, not to do politics. It's my vision of the Guardian of Citizens. In the end, I want to say that in the day of voting, I will give my support to Zoran Pasalic as the Protector of Citizens. I will also vote for re-election of former members of the Fiscal Council. I will also support the agency's proposal to fight corruption, as the bid has been supported by both SNS, SPS, JS, PUPS, SVM and many others so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18883	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18884	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, Serbia is due today to receive the Protector of Citizens after nearly 10 years. Protector of the rights of citizens who need the rights of citizens to protect independently and independently in accordance with the Constitution and laws. So, after almost 10 years, we need to get a Protector of the Citizens instead of a DOS protector. There's been a lot of talk about the independence and independence of civil rights defenders and I can talk about it based on some experience so far. Previous Citizens' Protector Sasa Jankovic, if I am not mistaken, was elected in 2007 with the support of the former regime and ended his term as president of the same regime. Then someone tells us we're not ready to take control. In fact, Saša Jankovic's own candidacy is a mockery of Serbian citizens, mocking independent institutions, and ultimately, mocking the Constitution and the law that strictly prohibits the Citizens' Protector from dealing with politics. It shows the very principle of work of the former government somewhere. On the one hand, you are prepared to appeal to institutions and laws, and if it is in your interest, you will violate every law and abuse every institution, to call for democracy and human rights, but if you feel politically threatened, you will be ready to hang in the squares to burn this Assembly, to lynch people. Sasa Jankovic is a symbol of the former regime's work. You didn't overprotect him, but that's where I can understand you, because he used your infrastructure to be a presidential candidate, and later he made his own party. There was talk of length of study, and it seems to me that somewhere in October last year, we all shared a view that the length of study cannot be the only criterion. When we extended the deadline for completing the studies to the old students, the opposition was the loudest in that it could not be a criterion and that it should be extended. I know of a president, one of the parties who was also former defence minister, known for his return pastures, who studied for 13 years, so perhaps that was the reason for the opposition's attitude. What kind of student Mr. Zoran Pasalic was, I honestly don't know, but I have information that as a student he didn't have a gun and that the gun in his apartment wasn't a man killed. What do I expect from the new Citizens' Protector? I expect all citizens to be equal to him, not to block on social networks the citizens he's supposed to protect at the same time, I expect him to separate what's called citizens' rights and human and minority rights with politics, and never join it and make it a standard today. As Honorable counterpart Nedjo Jovanovic said yesterday, controlling this parliament, controlling the work of the Serbian government, it is not the job of protectors of citizens, it is not a job anywhere in our environment, it is not happening anywhere in the EU. So, I expect the Civil Protection Institution to restore its reputation that it lost in the previous period, and to be perfectly honest, I don't know too much about Mr Zoran Pasalic and I will judge him solely on the basis of his work, just as I am now doing when it comes to the former Citizens' Protector. When it comes to the Fiscal Council, what is tragic today in our country, which is almost impossible anywhere to hear reasoned criticism, so you can see in the media the death of the president of Serbia, the death to a living man, the constant lies about his family, his brother, his children, on the daily level of an imaginary affair, and you can't hear a constructive and reasoned criticism anywhere. That's where I think the Fiscal Council played its part and that their criticism could always show good intentions and a desire for the government to work better and better. The fiscal council was also able to praise and criticise, and for us it was always such that we respected him unlike the opposition, which when the Fiscal Council criticized power, then the Fiscal Council was the best, when the Fiscal Council boasted, then he was no good, and we all need to ask ourselves how we came to be the defender of the arguments of criticism, and that nowhere in civil society, in NGOs, after all, and in opposition, we can't hear the argumentary criticism. So, I will support all proposals with a desire for these institutions to work better in the coming period and work primarily for the benefit of citizens, not for their own benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18885	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18886	The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, the Citizens' Protector is an independent state body that protects citizens' rights and controls the work of state administration authorities. The institution of the Protector of Citizens was established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution provides for a special law to be adopted on the Ombudsman. Simeon enjoys immunity, as a people's messenger selecting him and dissipating the National Assembly. All procedures carried out in the protection of citizens' rights by this independent body are governed by the Law on the Protector of Citizens. By establishing this institution, citizens believed they would be able to protect their rights that they could not with the state authorities, which in practice has not so far proved to be so. Because the Ombudsman reacts in cases where there are failures in the work or inconsistencies of the public authorities, i.e. public administrations before which citizens exercise their rights. What is for work, such an important independent body, are principles that the Ombudsman must adhere to in his work. These are legal and moral principles established both by our and international regulations, i.e. at the level of the international association of the Ombudsman. I would like to remind you of the most important principles on which the work of the Protectors must be based, which are independence, neutrality, impartiality, political indifference, confidentiality, etc. Simeon must not have any other position, nor be in any organisation that would question independence and objectivity. It must not be a member of any party, with such practice, but we have negative experience. Citizens must be equal in the exercise of their rights, not that it depends on political or other belongings. The legal obligation of the Ombudsman is to protect the rights of citizens in the following areas in a defined way and according to established procedures: human rights, rights of members of national minorities, rights of children, rights of persons with disabilities, rights of persons with disabilities, rights of persons with disabilities, gender equality, advisory assistance, etc. I believe that the new Citizens' Protector will have less to do in the future, because this, as well as the previous Government, are doing everything possible to modernise and human resources all public services and state bodies before which citizens exercise their rights. Good administration must characterise, respect and dignity of the party, ethics, security, expertise, impartiality, efficiency. Only this administration restores dignity to citizens who have the constitutional and legal right to exercise their rights in the best and simplest way in public authorities. How great are the powers of the Guardian of Citizens, it also says that he has a discretionary right to decide whether or not to act on individual or collective cases. Manchester can initiate a procedure based on direct insight or its direct knowledge. Simeon has access to all information and to all persons in the organization as permitted under the law. The guarantee of the authority of the Ombudsman, among the citizens, is his political neutrality, therefore he is obliged to stick to all citizens. In voting day, the SPS parliamentary group will support all proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18887	Thank you, colleague. The word has a folk MP, Vera Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18888	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, is on the agenda of today's debates with proposals for candidates for membership of the Anti-Corruption Committee, candidates for the election of members of the Fiscal Council, as well as a proposal for a decision by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives to elect candidates for the Citizens' Protector. Based on the résumés, we must agree that they are professional and competent people, and they are also related to their work and experience so far. Today I will talk about the proposal of the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of the spending of public funds to elect candidates for members of the Fiscal Council. The fiscal council is an independent state body responsible for the National Assembly of Serbia. The functioning of the Fiscal Council is laid down by the Budget System Act. The Fiscal Council mission is the credibility of fiscal policy from the aspect of respect for established fiscal rules, to ensure the public and accountability of fiscal policy-making. In order to meet the objectives set, the Fiscal Council is checking the macroeconomic and fiscal assumptions used to produce government documents, giving an independent and credible assessment of economic policy, assessing to what extent the government has respected the fiscal rules, which it has established, as well as other competences. The Financial Committee shall be based on Article 55. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, starting with the above-mentioned proposal for the President, proposed by the current president, Prof. Dr. Pavel Petrovic, as well as the previous members...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18889	Bring the end, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18890	... Pavel Petrovic, as well as former members of Professor Vladimir Vukkovic and Mr Nikola Altiparmakov. The fiscal council, primarily by criticising constructive proposals, has made a significant contribution to the successful economic policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia, showing that expertise, knowledge and experience are a guarantee of success. The fiscal council's proposals were heading towards a reduction in public debt and controlled inflation. Since he has shown by his work that he acts as a team of professional individuals, he does not need to be changed. I call on my fellow Members to accept these members in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18891	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18892	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the institution of the Protector of Citizens is very important for the protection of human and minority rights. I remember, when this institution was established, news of it among members of the Bosniak community in Serbia was received with great joy, but, unfortunately, soon came disappointment with the way the Citizens' Protector acted, at that time Sasa Jankovic, according to the problems facing the Bosniak national community. We have several very pronounced examples of violations of this community's rights and brutal abuses of power, then the government and the DS authorities, where Sasa Jankovic, as the Protector of citizens, has, in fact, supported such behaviours of the regime towards members of the Bosniak national community. There was then an aggression against the Islamic community, a divided community by abuse of power at all levels, from the Ministry of Faith, to abuse of police and other segments of government, when members of this community addressed the Citizens' Protector, who did nothing to protect citizens' rights. The assets of the Islamic Community have been seized, more than 90 believers and the Islamic Community have been expelled, all contrary to the law and abuse of power, but even then the Protector of Citizens does not react and thus supports the violation of the rights of those citizens. What was the culmination of the abuse of power was in 2010 the abuse of more than 1500 members of the Gendarmeria located at the Hadget site, otherwise the Bosniaks' site, where more than 2,000 members of the Bosniak national community were shot in 1945 and 1946, where mass graves were found, and then local self-government in Novi Pazar decided to raise an object on the site. The citizens opposed it, and then the government sent over 1500 special forces to use force. So, there was violence, a blow to the head, and then the Citizens' Protector didn't react. Unfortunately, the local authorities have seen this as a green light and we have today, only a few days ago were the construction works of an emergency service building in the same location, where skeletal remains of also mass graves were found, which is in fact still the consequence of such a relationship with the rights of members of this national community. We also have a permanent abuse of power with regard to the obstruction of accreditation of the International University, also from the time of the DS government, with the unmistakable blessing of the Ombudsman, or the Protector of Citizens. So, as the Protector had our best knowledge, we who felt independence on our skin, namely the very great bias of the Protector of the Citizens. That's why we need a Protector of citizens who will be on the sidelines of citizens in cases of abuse of power. What's this guy who's been offered, we can only know that when we give him a chance. We've met this guy before, and we've seen what he's like. This should give us a chance, and according to how he behaves in the event of this function, then we will judge him and plead on how he performs this function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18893	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Diana Vukomanovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18894	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the people, honored guests, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, although today in the Assembly we are talking about a technical staff issue, it is doubtless for all of us that we know that the proposed candidates with the support of the ruling coalition will be elected, it is routine, because when routinely with 157 votes they chose Ana Brnabic and other ministers for the old-new government, they will succeed in this case. Today, however, we are dealing with an extremely serious area, the area of human rights and freedom. I am therefore surprised that instead of talking about the quality of the candidates they have proposed, because these proposals came from the ruling coalition, representatives of the SNS and their coalition partners are collapsing on the former Citizens' Protector and the current Commissioner for Freedom of Access to Public Information and Personal Data Protection, Mr Sabic. What's he saying? He says you didn't learn anything. In the manner in which incumbent President Aleksandar Vukic, by his own personal recognition, said he did not understand what was going on in Europe and the world at the time of the Berlin Wall's fall, but I keep reminding you, not only the Berlin Wall, the military-political wall, the Soviet bloc has just fallen and ended up in collapse due to the problem of insufficient protection of human rights and freedom, both economic and political. That's the mistake you're repeating right now. Today we were able to hear the unusual lesson of Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic, who not only, to put it this way, gave the political pucks to Mr Sabic and Mr Jankovic, but also to future candidate Zoran Pasalic, so she told him, in fact, in a translated or literal sense, that he forgot any political ambitions, that he is, therefore, the ruling majority. That's unusual. We do not need to know the names of the Simeon even in Serbia, if we do not know in the environment or if people in the EU and in European countries do not know the names of the Citizens' Protectors. That's good for democracy. You even have countries where you don't even know the president's name. One, take the Netherlands or some other country, the president of the state people don't know, because they trust that whoever got most will follow the Constitution. That's not the case here. You're constantly hitting pucks in the field of human rights and freedom. It's the media, sometimes the citizens, sometimes the peasants, depend on how they rebel. That's not good. It's not Serbia. I remind you that even at the time of Tito's Yugoslavia, so to speak, the Republic of Serbia was a great standard of protection of human and minority rights. Here, and Mr. Zukurlic reminded me of some unloved cases. Therefore, I am telling you that Serbia is missing the chance to be the champion of human rights. After all, 600,000 citizens who voted for Sasa Jankovic said he did a very good job. Therefore, I now remind you of that famous sentence they said at the time of the adoption of the Sretenjski Constitution – this French breakup in the Serbian forest will not be well received, but the germs and seeds of human rights and freedoms have been very well received on Serbian soil and you cannot with your political toxic pesticide to destroy it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18895	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18896	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have been discussing three very important proposals these two days for the functioning of three independent institutions. I can agree with what's said in these two days, and I can't agree with anything. I will use these five minutes to make my impression that 10 years and two mandates have taken us into the legal system to establish the foundations of the Civil Protection Institution. It would be all right if the former Citizens' Protector Sasa Jankovic did not start using his post for political purposes, preparing and using his post for the president's candidacy. All those who challenged Zoran Pasalic's candidacy for the Citizens' Protector and support for the parliamentary majority today and yesterday, I want to tell them that in 2012 we had an absolute consensus in this high home of all political parties and parliamentary groups, meaning both positions and opposition, and all NGOs, and that he was a unique case in that he misused the function of the Citizens' Protectors, which he politicised and allowed his actions to lose the synergy that existed in society. I don't know when we'll have that situation again, but it's more than clear that we've lost it lightly and that we're the only country in which the Guardian of Citizens has run for president of the state, using state resources for his political career. The law clearly lays down the responsibilities of the Protector of Citizens. This institution must be independent, the job of the Protector is to recognize when human rights are threatened and react for it. The protection of citizens must be a high moral person, as well as a responsible and professional act in accordance with the mandate and competences of such a significant function. It is very important that the future Citizens' Protector co-operates with the Serbian parliament to co-operate with NGOs, to keep in touch with Serbian citizens. All those who, in their discussion, have somehow blamed the majority's will to support the new Citizens' Protector, with the absence of dialogue, I would like to remind them that the regulations clearly and precisely defined the conditions and procedures for selecting the Citizens' Protectors and that the majority in this high house are chosen and respected auditor Sretenovic, who sits here and former Protector of citizens and trustees. But this is about something else. This is about a senseless attempt to challenge the legitimacy of the majority and the legitimacy of the majority to propose a candidate for the Protector of Citizens and, in my opinion, it is also, in some ways, an outrageous challenge to the biography of the candidate of the Citizens' Protector proposed by the majority. You know, when you can't find anything else and challenge him anything in his biography, in his past work, then you count how many times he's passed a test, how many years he's studied, pulling it out of context in a very ugly way, not taking into account life circumstances because of it. What is doubtless is that the candidate of the majority for the Protector of the Citizens of Mr Pasalić characterises the rich work experience, expertise and results he has had in his work so far. It is also very important that this institution be strengthened, that it should be depoliticalised and perhaps best spoken of by a reasoned and constructive criticism that becomes the driver of certain changes is also a proposal for the President of the Fiscal Council. That's why in the voting day, I'm going to support all these three proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18897	Thank you very much. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go, colleague Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18898	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For a little while, I'm going to talk about two of these three topics. Of course, most of the time she's taken away from us these days, she's telling us all a story about the Guardian of Citizens. A moment ago, the president of the assembly said something very nice, and I liked it. He says – if we were in the first class our speech would start "Jankovic was a bad Citizen Protector and Pasalic would be better." I couldn't agree more, Jankovic was bad. I would add "bad" a few more attributes – "very bad", "absolutely bad", but with the other part I can't agree with. I can't agree because if Pasalic is going to be better or worse, me as a MP should define something called his biography. I heard, you were trying to defend, to speak under the law of some four conditions that he as a candidate for the Protector of Citizens should meet, he's apparently only fulfilling the first -- that he's graduated from Law School. But his graduation of the Law School is something that can't be fascinated by me because the person who studied for 13 years and after 13 years had an average grade of 6.73, and then one seven years she worked in the law office, so she passed a relatively late exam and entered the legal profession, and then she was in the legal profession dealing with the issue of working in the law enforcement bodies, with all due respect to all those judges who work there. Some prominent professors of the Faculty of Law explained to me that they are misdemeanor courts, says a relic of communism. They were introduced at the time when the police repression conducted by the population should have given rapid judicial legitimacy, so they even explained to me that the EU you are so anxious to put before us a request for these misdemeanors to be abolished. So that segment of his work is not something that will fascinate me either. But one other thing in the whole story bothers me, and it hurts the most. Tell me, and I didn't hear that answer, everyone was talking – how is it possible in the country of Serbia and the old Law on Higher Education and under the new Law on Higher Education, that a person who had a middle grade of 6.73 enrolls in postgraduate studies? I know you've always asked for a minimum score of eight. How did the gentleman get his master's degree? How is it possible that at 6.73 he enrolled in postgraduate studies? I didn't get an answer, but I'd like to see that. Is that why he made a detour, so instead of his master's degree at law school, he went to master's at FON? I don't understand the story. By the way I've been talking to, I repeat again, the distinguished professors of law school found out, it's against the law, for God's sakes. How is the Guardian of Citizens going to be the one who did something that didn't comply with the law? That's why I won't vote for such a Protector of citizens. He can't be my Protector of the Citizens, no matter what the last one was. But I also heard a story about the last one. It is true, he resigned from the seat of the Guardian of Citizens immediately after running for president of the state, but we, gentlemen of the government, and we, gentlemen of the opposition, as MPs had the opportunity to resolve him immediately, to call a session and not to allow him to use state funds in the campaign as something that is his. Unfortunately, the political assessment was such that it should not be done, so I will remember here my professor who spoke – let me, I will need myself. No one else will be my Protector of the Citizens, I can't think of them properly. I just thought that this poor average represents a trend that the SNS represents because I often talk about this with a review because it is a bad message to students when I received an extraordinary proposal from the president of the state of Mr. Alexander Vukic that a young Dr. Stankovic Milos would be proposed for a candidate at the Anti-Corruption Agency. I've seen a brilliant biography. At the age of 23, he graduated law school with an average score of 9.55. Eight years later he doctored and it was all brilliant and I really said – an outstanding example. But I take it and start looking at his work experience from his biography, and some things start falling into my eyes. He says – in 2008 he was admitted to calling his co-worker in the training for the narrow scientific field of construction and law, subject – an inheritance law. So in 2009, it was produced to call assistants for the narrow area of construction law, subject – teaching law. So it was restored in 2012 to call an assistant for the subject – inheritance law. And then suddenly, in 2016 we choose him as a professor for the narrow scientific field – legal history, subject – parallel legal tradition and rhetoric. It wasn't clear to me, and I'm calling those college professors just before, and I'm asking how is that possible? They say Weso, it's not possible, it's illegal. He couldn't be chosen for that. I say -- how, a man is an exceptional student, brilliant, award-winning speaker, what's going on? And I get an explanation -- it was the will of former RIK President Dejan Djurdjevic, who is a professor at that university and who, according to what those professors told me, literally told this remarkable young man: "Boy, buy the rags and leave my cathedral". Is it possible it was done that way? Is it possible that we want to lose a young man like this, who has also doctored on the subject – an inheritance agreement between the spouses, who has spent his whole life with all his knowledge, energy, brilliant schooling, dedicated one area, and then someone's will, even if it was the former president of RIK in front of the SNS, I am sorry, he is an assistant on the subject, saying that Mr. Stankovic was an assistant of Professor Antic, Professor Antic left for Ambassador to Lisbon, came to that, and then a solution was sought. Let's not let these things get out of hand. You're in a position, as a government, not to let that happen, to prevent it. I don't mind that he was 51st signed by Mr. Alexander Vukic, that's his right, that's his opinion, he's brilliant to me, and I'll vote for him. But this thing is seriously asking whether he can work at the Anti-Corruption Agency because he failed to fight for his labour rights? Then how is he going to fight other monsters who, unfortunately, will meet him in that place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18899	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Maja Gojkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18900	Thank you. It is article 107 – the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I was surprised that you did not react and correct one of the MPs that presented the incorrect information, I suppose out of ignorance, when she cited the Kingdom of Holland as a well-organised state, a state in which democratic rights and the rule of law are respected and human rights are protected in the right way, and that the citizens of the Netherlands do not know who their president is. Of course they don't know who their president is because the Netherlands is the Kingdom of Holland and they know who the King of Holland is, and the President doesn't. Thank you. I think we have a duty to make it right.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18901	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? (No) The word of the Messenger of the people is Srdjan Nogo, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18902	I'd point to Article 103's injury. The Rules of Procedure which states in paragraph 1 that the MP may point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure immediately following an injury done. Is it the fact that, in the capacity of the MPs' bench, the President of Parliament called for a word, with a desire to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Do the special rules apply to the President of Parliament and does this Rules of Procedure not apply to it, but to some particular one? Because I have not heard so far that some MP could point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure that had been done before. Before her, Mr Dragan Vesovic spoke, and as far as I understand it, Dragan Vesovic is not the MP, because he is a man, and this was about some female MP who committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. We are not allowed from the opposition to point out the violations of the Rules of Procedure in such cases, but it is obvious that MPs of the ruling majority and specifically the president are going to meet.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18903	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. We had a good explanation according to the Rules of Procedure. Once again a breach of the Rules of Procedure, the word is Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18904	Thank you. It is necessary to take a good look at Article 103 and to know when an MP has called. I answered as MP Vesovic spoke, and you probably did not want to interrupt him and give me your word right away, and I thank you for that. But the honourable MP really cannot erase the fact that MP Vukomanovic said that the Netherlands is a republic, and it is a kingdom. I want to repeat that the Netherlands is a kingdom and that there is no president of the state, so it is normal that the citizens of the Netherlands don't know who the president of the state is when they don't have it. So please don't educate me on how to use the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18905	Thank you. Mr. Orlic also answered, so I failed to give him my word. counterpart Vukomanovic, there is no replica when it comes to hurting the Rules of Procedure. There was one explanation. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18906	For this little time that's left with the MP group, I'd try to get back on the subject of this two-day session that's as if it's just an outside cause to talk about everything and everything. I think the tone of this was given by the congregation's majority, and that was especially seen today, with a single dose of aggression and intolerance that is above average even for our standards here in the Assembly, and we're used to all sorts of things. It especially seems to be expressed in moments when there are no arguments. Because the less argumentary it is, the more an insult to the opposition, and that's more of a talk off topic. Of course, that goes backwards. Like I said, we're all different, we're not all flowers, on either side, on the other side. As our candidates are not always perfect, but in this case it is still the responsibility of the parliamentary majority. That is why it is your responsibility, dear colleagues, as would be the responsibility of Parliament's president to, say, warn the atmosphere and to provide us with silence, that there is something heard in this room, and you do not. For example, it is the responsibility of the congregation’s majority to see who it proposes and then to be ready to endure the consequences of its proposal. We've seen here that the most convincing time has been spent criticizing the work of the former Protector of Citizens, for two reasons. The first is because part of him seems to be frightened, resenting him by these ruling majority colleagues, and on the other hand because they do not have much good to say about their candidate. I am surprised by something else, which has not devoted more time to the justified praises of other candidates who could, who were proposed here, but focused only on the Protector of the Citizens, and that of Mr Jankovic. He's a political figure now. Whatever it was, you voted for it, I didn't vote for it. On the other hand, you suggested a man who, as we heard, studied for 13 years with an average of 6.73 or 6.75. So it's a relevant fact. Not to mention that membership on the boards of Red Star and Partisan. I am sure, and that is the point, dear colleagues, so that you from your ranks could find better candidates, and surely you could, among MPs and among the members of the Committee on Justice. And it is not right for this way to embarrass the institution of the Assembly which you now need, and then, indirectly, we all as parliament, to voice such a proposal. It's not by chance that President Vukic, who, of course, knows what he's doing, he's laid down and the man has an average of 9.55, he could find someone also, an Indian, so he can say – but he's terribly talented, he's a genius and he'll do his job well. But he didn't do it, he let you embarrass yourself. For the last time, please, I urge you, withdraw your proposal, and then point at these other proposals that are of more or less quality and we will have no god knows what to object to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18907	Thank you. The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18908	The Honorable Chairman, Article 107. This is really a scandal, and it's amazing that you haven't responded, the speaker just said that there are candidates who are proposed by the Indians. What does that look like? The one who changed the nation, he objected to someone. He's looking for an average? What was the average of Jankovic? What he knew about Jankovic in 2007 when he was so supportive. I'm really asking you to stop this kind of thing. I insist and ask you to give him a warning, because no one has the right to insult people like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18909	Thank you, fellow Djukanovic. Since it was a very loud, big castle in the O.R., I may have missed it, but I didn't hear it. I'm sorry. Of course, we won't allow that kind of expression. So I didn't break the Rules of Procedure. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? No, thank you. Let's move on, the word has Miladin Ševarlic. He's not here. Momo Colakovic, he's not here either. Ivan Kostic. The word is Jahja Ferhatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18910	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the special attention of today's united debate calls for a proposal to elect the Citizens' Protectors, and in this respect I will dedicate this presentation to this agenda point. At the official internet presentation of this state body we found a definition in which the first part is said, the Protector of Citizens is an independent and independent state body in charge of protecting and improving respect for freedom and rights. The specific sectors at the top of the scale include the protection of the rights of minority and national minorities, which states that there is a section of protection of the rights of members of national minorities within several departments. Analyzing the work of the previous Citizens' Protector according to this definition, we find that it was essentially the opposite of the same. As Citizens Protector, Sasa Jankovic was neither independent nor independent state body. This was best felt by members of the Bosniak people and their institutions during DS and Boris Tadic's regime in connection with the local government of SDA and SDP of Sulejman Ugljanin and Rasim Ljajic in the Sandzak cities. Exposures to the brutal violation of the Constitution and the law by the state and local regimes of the period, Bosniaks have repeatedly addressed Jankovic asking him to do his job, however, they have often received an excuse that he is powerless, that he is not competent, that he cannot go on and on, and all concerned aspects of the protection of the rights and freedom of citizens who are within the scope of his work. As the Citizens' Protector acted in the case of the Islamic community, international curiosity, we heard from counterpart Muamer Zukorlic, nothing better when his relationship was in the elections for the Bosniak national council in 2010 and directly in violation of constitutional and legal regulations by then Minister Ciplic, and then in the course of his political takeoff in 2016, misusing the position on the Protector of citizens actively participated in attempts to cause unrest in Sandzak through the coercion of the people and state authorities against building a university building for Islamic studies. In addition, what is devastating and embarrassing about all the calls of the families kidnapped and killed in the North and Strpts, the Protector of the Citizens was not clearly determined and did not use all the legal frameworks to meet their demands that were justified. All of these are indications that the former Citizens' Protector, instead of serving citizens all the time in his term, at least when it comes to Bosniaks, has served the policies of his former mentors and current partners. The destruction of its operation and political bias is evident in support of the local Florist in Tutin, who physically attacked his fellow citizen in the centre of Tutin in 18.6.6. As it stands in the official police report on this, the public defender in question threatened to kill this person, physically attacked him and beat him up. Although we were looking for whether Sasa Jankovic reacted in this case to warn his colleague of violations of the law and abuse of office, we did not encounter such data, but we found that in the previous elections he had received the support of the work of the political party of the Tutinian Citizens' Protector. Citing these examples of a bad, addictive, not independent and political trade in the motivated functioning of the previous Citizens' Protector, we wanted to say that this institution must be different in the future, and that the new Citizens' Protector must not repeat his earlier mistakes. The fact that Mr Pasalic, as a criminal judge, had the strength and the courage to impose a court sentence on the then president of the Republic of Boris Tadic, says a lot that he has the quality to perform this important function independently, independently and superpolitically. Therefore, in the voting day, we will support this proposal, and I hope that our support will be to ensure that Mr Pasalić, as future Citizens' Protector, takes care of the rights of minority peoples and communities, not as they were during his predecessors and former regimes in the largest number of cases, but for all the positive legal provisions in the area of protection of minority peoples and national communities essentially live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18911	Thank you. Zoran Radojčić, Srdjan Nogo... So the list is closed. The time of all parliamentary groups has been spent and the list has been exhausted. I'm asking in accordance with the Rules of Procedure if anyone wants to use the law of Article 96. Rules of Procedure. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18912	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to say on behalf of the Single Serbia parliamentary group that we will support all the proposals that are here today for the vote, and I would like to, in particular, with a few sentences to refer to the candidate for the Protector of Citizens or Manchester, Mr Zoran Pasalic. Here we heard a lot of criticism in his name, starting with how much he studied, how average he was, where he was, what he was doing, etc., but I'm particularly surprised, not to use some more difficult expression that these criticisms came from those who in 2002 or 2003 when he was appointed in power in the city of Belgrade as an elder of Belgrade's court for the violation of Belgrade City, then it was administrative procedure in congregations, municipalities, or city. Then 2010 on the occasion, so-called. Major judicial reform in Serbia, Mr. Pasalic was appointed president of the Major Criminal Court, at the time it was the Higher Violent Court by the same critics today who say he studied for so many years, etc. On the other hand, Mr Pasalic, in his work so far, showed exceptional results regarding the organisation of new judicial organisations of criminal courts, and I want to remind you, for those who did not know that Mr Pasalic as a judge for the Belgrade City's violation, as early as 2003, protected migrants in the city of Belgrade who were then attacked, chicanated, etc. by some who violated the rights of migrants in Belgrade. So much so that it is known that he did not know that he was protecting some of the rights of citizens of other nationalities and national minorities etc. When we criticize someone for how many years he studied, we need to know the reasons why someone studied so much. On the other hand, is the average rating just enough for someone to perform a function? Well, just to pick the ones that have an average of nine, nine, or ten, and send everyone else to the Employment Service, they don't have to do anything else. I want to tell you that in Jagodina he was an excellent expert who studied 15 years of medicine, but then he received his doctorate and was an extraordinary expert. His average is six and something at medical school. What I'm saying is that I'm an average college grader doesn't necessarily mean someone's going to be an exceptional expert in their field. So much for Pasalic, so much for the Guardian of Citizens. I am sure that Mr. Zoran Pasalic will do a good job, will do better than his predecessor, and I am sure he will not use the post for political purposes, that the next day when his mandate expires he is running for some post in the state of Serbia. When it comes to other candidates, such as candidates behind members of the Anti-Corruption Agency, these are candidates who are proposed by authorised proposings and we can either accept or not accept these proposals. On behalf of the Unique Serbia, I say they should be accepted and we will vote for those candidates. However, as some promoters are principled in their proposals and how well they make sure that this committee works, this proposal is not here today in front of us. There was a proposal which was returned to the proposing members of the Anti-Corruption Agency or proposed by a person who was punished by the Anti-Corruption Agency for failing to comply with the Anti-Corruption Act. So much for principle, so much for consistency, so much for justice. When we talk about the third body, which we are discussing today, the Single Serbia will also support the proposal, because it has come from the proposings of the authorised, or authorized, to propose them, and it is those who re-propose the most criticised certain budgetary, financial and other things that have come from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, the promoters said that sometimes it's good to criticize something, not just praise it, and that's why we're going to support it. Finally, I call on all MPs, colleagues and colleagues to support the proposals that are before us today and to move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18913	Thank you. The word is Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18914	Thank you. Dear citizens, ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing, here, two days of the proposal for candidates for the Fiscal Council, for the Committee of the Anti-Corruption Agency and for the Protector of Citizens, and it is very important that we repeat some of the key things that we discussed here today and yesterday, and that is that the selection process for these candidates is completely inadequate. The ruling majority explained that the law does not oblige them to a more transparent and better procedure, a procedure in which MPs will be able to ask questions to candidates, where they will indeed discuss their work plans and the fact that there is nothing in this ill-written Rules of Procedure, or there is no obligation, but there is also no obligation in this same Rules of Procedure nor a ban on candidates to appear on the Committee, to answer questions on committees, to apply their work programme. You probably all know that wherever you apply for a job that this interview is an obligation, it seems everywhere except for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, the candidates didn't even show up on the boards, let's just say, the candidates for the Fiscal Council didn't show up, the candidates for the Anti-Corruption Agency's Committee didn't even show up. The candidates for the Protector of Citizens showed up, evading questions again. The proposed candidate did not respond and was instructed by the Committee president not to do so. So, practically, this is one big farce. MPs do not have the opportunity to play their constitutional role, to fulfil their legal obligation and to choose candidates with full responsibility because they could not ask them questions. Many things remain controversial. This way things shouldn't work. The fact is, and what the ruling majority is mostly getting out of is - this is how it was done before, before 2012. We say this is wrong. If the Ministry of Finance gives you a proposal like this for a member of the Fiscal Council, one sentence, here, between my two fingers, you see this one sentence, in which they only say who the candidate is. So is the National Bank, one paragraph. With this you see that there really is no respect for this institution, that the minimum minimum should be that we can talk openly to candidates about their work plans. Since no candidate has submitted the work plan, DJB MPs will not vote for any candidates. There may be good candidates among them, but if you don't respect the National Assembly so much and don't submit to the work plan, you certainly won't get a vote from the DJ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18915	The word is Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18916	Thank you. The president of Serbia, the SNS, is not in control, they do not submit to journalists who ask citizens who feel free to think, institutions that talk, as they say. This government needs better citizens. Today, too, they will elect a protector of the authorities, with the announcement that they will disbanded an institution that has fought for the rights of the citizens at stake. By this choice, we are all getting into a new level of SNS terror over freedoms and over institutions, and these are dangerous things whose consequences are yet to be expected by the citizens and this society. You know, where every area of society takes over and kidnaps one party, that's where the state disappears. That is why DS MPs will be even louder and stronger in defending democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18917	The word has Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18918	As noted, we will only support Milos Stankovic. We hope that he will justify our trust and that he will be worthy of performing that function. As far as the others are concerned, we can certainly be skeptical. I'd look back only in this short time on the Guardian of Citizens. Dvori believes the facility is too high in Serbia's legal order and belongs to another legal culture and does not have much importance for citizens. However, it is a very interesting fact that being the former Protector of the citizens is a bad one, we have a biography of this new one, which guarantees that this one will be bad too. It is not clear to me how Pasalic came into contact with the SNS, because as far as I know, he was with a certain Zoran Đuric, a court expert, neared Snezani Malovic and thanks to Snezana Malovic was weighed in the Criminal Court. I haven't questioned where he's coming from in combination with the SNS, but that's about to come out. What I would have to look at is the finding that there won't be a lot of work for him, because unfortunately, I think there's going to be a lot of work for the Protector of Citizens. I would just point out one current case of a new thing that must certainly be the subject of interest and the Protector of citizens. Namely, here is the Technological Manual on the reception and handing over of court, written and written in the administrative procedure, which was just adopted on the basis of the Statute of the Post, and on the basis of the contract between Post and VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors and the opinion of the Ministry of State Administration, signed by current Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. This puts the Code of Criminal Procedure outside the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18919	Thank you, you've spent 10 seconds. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18920	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first of all, to correct my previous colleagues, just a lucky player to come out. So, to correct my previous colleagues, the condition for postgraduate studies isn't that someone has a grade of eight comas something. Postgraduate studies can also be enrolled with six, six comas on condition that there are two scientific papers. So this shows that the grudges of certain colleagues do not stand. At the end of all these discussions, we should congratulate those who are elected, and I think that no matter who we choose, except Sasha Jankovic, that this is progress, because Sasa Jankovic, as we have seen in the debate, did not protect anyone, protect herself. He didn't even try to protect against the administrative authorities fired, underpaid, those who lost their jobs, those 350,000 during the rule of the former regime. He took care of himself and no matter who was elected to his place, it would be absolute progress, and I believe that Mr. Pasalic will pay more attention to human rights than his predecessor did. As far as the Anti-Corruption Agency is concerned, I am still expressing my dissatisfaction because it has not served its purpose and has just been the leader of this group, "Never had enough", who left the session, is living proof of that, because his irregularity has never been sanctioned in relation to the transfer of power from his private firms to a mutually connected person. Also, I have to express my dissatisfaction because he is an MP of the former regime, because of my remarks that he bought an apartment in Vienna and that the Anti-Corruption Agency did not sanction it, last day, that he sent a serious insult to this parliament yesterday by calling us a zoo. So, regardless of his insult, when it's not convincing, then something offensive follows them. I still have to express my dissatisfaction because I think the Anti-Corruption Agency has not served its purpose, has not sanctioned all the robberies that were during the rule of the former regime in a period which I hope is far behind us. They today, the Kobajagi, stand in the protection of those underpaid, calling Serbia as they call it, and I must remind them that in their time Serbia was not a country of cheap labour, but rather a land of unemployed labour, which is now making some progress along with us and finding work. I claim that workers' rights should be greater, that they must comply with the profit, and certainly progress is when you climb one or two steps, five steps you can't skip at once. As for the Fiscal Council, I still want to thank them both for the praises and for the criticisms, because this is very important because we expect that, thanks to their careful monitoring of what we are doing, that this country is making economic progress and that it has not achieved what it has achieved from 2000 to 2012. So, I want to congratulate all the candidates. I am dissatisfied with another fact, that there was no room for a deputy at today’s session, that is, to replace a person who calls himself the Trustee. It's a very important institution. I think the man who pleads to be a politician again, to be reactivated, doesn't deserve to be in that place, especially when he and the Citizens' Protector took £80,000 from the British Embassy and that from that moment on there is a misunderstanding between them that should defend human rights and officials, or representatives of the Government, representatives of the Assembly, etc. I believe that in the future, we will find...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18921	Thank you. You've wasted your time on the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18922	... Make time to correct that injustice and get a new trustee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-07-20-1.u18923	Thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint single search on the motions for action in the act. 1), 2) and (3) of the agenda. Dear Members of the People, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Thursday, July 20th, 2017, starting at 15.00pm, as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. Please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 150 MPs are present in the hall. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Serbia to elect Dr Milos Stankovic as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. I conclude the vote: nine MPs did not vote for – 147 against – five, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has selected Dr Milos Stankovic as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency's Committee. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Supreme Cassation Court to elect a Free Gazivode, judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia, retired as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. I conclude the vote: for – 142, v – six, abstention - three, 11 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Slobodan Gazid as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency's Committee. I am putting on the vote of the DRI proposal to elect Dr. Jelena Stankovic as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency, professor of the Faculty of Economics at the University of Nis. I conclude the vote: for – 142, v – two, abstention - six, 12 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Dr Jelena Stankovic as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency's Committee. I put to the vote the proposal of the Social Economic Council to elect Ivan Kovacevic as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. I conclude the vote: for – 142, v – two, abstention - seven, 11 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Ivan Kovacevic as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency's Committee. I am voting on a proposal from the Association of Journalists of Serbia and the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia to elect Zivojin Rakocevic as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency. I conclude the vote: 143 MPs did not vote for – 15, against – three, abstention - one. I find that the National Assembly did not select Živojin Rakočević as a member of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee. Let me congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the members of the Anti-Corruption Agency Committee on the election. To wish them successful work. I am putting the motion to vote on a decision to elect members of the Fiscal Council as a whole. I conclude the vote: 11 MPs did not vote for – 143 against – six, abstention - two. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes of all MPs has adopted a motion for a decision to elect members of the Fiscal Council. Let me congratulate on your and my behalf the members of the Fiscal Council on the election and wish them success in further work. I'm putting the motion to vote on a decision to elect the Protectors of the Citizens, as a whole. I conclude the vote: for – 142, v – 20, abstention - no one voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect the Guardians of Citizens by majority of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate the Citizens' Protector on your choice and wish him successful work. We're moving on to a decision on the violations of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Balša Bozovic pointed to a violation of Article 106, paragraph 1, at a session on 19 July at 13,40 minutes. Please decide if the said article is injured. I conclude the vote: no one, self-abstained, for seven, against them. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Branka Stamenkovic said at a session on July 19th in 15.07 minutes that he was injured by article 103. item 8. Rules of Procedure. Please decide on this. I conclude the vote: for—11, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Miroslav Aleksic said at a session on July 19th in 17.01 minutes that he was injured by member 104. Please decide on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I conclude the vote: no one, abstentioned, for – 10 versus – none. I find that there is no injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic said at a session on July 19th in 17.12 minutes that he was injured by members 106. I ask the National Assembly to decide on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm closing the vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Balša Bozovic said at a session on July 19th in 17.43 minutes that he was in violation of Article 106(1). I'm asking you to decide that. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Nemanja Sarovic said at a session on July 19th in 18.09 minutes that he was injured by members of 104. Please decide if the said article is injured. I'm closing the vote. No one joined the vote. I find that the said member has not been injured, and I find that the said member has not been injured. National MP Nemanja Sarovic said at a session on July 19th in 18.14 minutes that he was injured by Article 104. Please decide on this. I'm closing the vote. No one approached the vote and was not injured by the said member. National MP Tatjana Macura at a session on July 20th at 11.07 minutes pointed to a violation of article 106, and I ask you to decide on that. I conclude the vote: for nine, against none, abstentioned—no one. I find that the Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member. National MP Balša Bozovic indicated at a session on July 20th in 12.41 minutes that he was in violation of Article 107(1). Rules of Procedure. I ask the National Assembly to decide if the said member has been injured. I conclude the vote: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—anyone. I find that the said member has not been injured. Since the National Assembly has carried out its consideration and decision on all points of the agenda of this session in accordance with Article 102. I hereby conclude the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. As a clear notice, I will now schedule an oath session, and it will be approximately 3:30 p.m., so I ask that the MPs who wish to attend, please remain here for another 15, 20 minutes.
