ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-1.u26146	Dear Members of the People, honourable members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, your Excellency, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the fourteenth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Eleventh Assembly. As you know, this special session was called to the National Assembly by Ms Valentina Matvenko, president of the Federation Council of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation. It is my honor to welcome Mrs. Valentina Matvenko, on behalf of the National Assembly and on behalf of myself. In addition, I welcome the other respected members of the Federation Council delegation of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as representatives of the diplomatic court in the Republic of Serbia and distinguished guests attending today's session. Now I ask Her Excellency, Mrs. Valentina Matvenko, to speak to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-1.u26147	Madam President, honourable MPs, dear friends, I thank you for your honor and invitation to speak at the plenary session of the National Assembly, the High Legislative Authority of the Republic of Serbia. With great heat, I remember my previous visit to Belgrade in 2015, which took place, as always, in an open and friendly atmosphere. We have signed an agreement on co-operation between the National Assembly and the Federation Council of the Federal Assembly today, since the first moments of my stay on the Serbian country, we have again felt the kindness and warmth of your people towards us. I want to show you, honourable parliamentarians, to the entire Serbian people, our deepest and sincerest thanks. The relations between Russia and the Republic of Serbia are an example of true friendship and brotherhood, mutual respect, trust, versatile equal co-operation. They were like this over the centuries; they remain as of this day. In that, without a doubt, it is a great credit and the president of our two states, parliaments and governments, as the country's leading political forces. The perfect special relations between Russia and Serbia are based on the historical closeness of the Russian and Serbian people, Orthodox religion, belonging to a great Slovenian society. One Serbian proverb says -- in heaven, God, and on the land of Russia. Such words, thoughts, and feelings have lived for centuries, passed down from generation to generation, because they go from soul to soul. I assure you that the Russian people of our multinational homeland have the same sincere, deep feelings for the people of Serbia. Our relationships have been checked with time, common tragedies and victories. Indeed, over many centuries, our peoples had to together defend their freedom and independence, national identity, the right to an independent pathway of development, and always, all the time, we, Russians and Serbs, supported each other. Russian volunteers participated in the fight against the Ottoman Empire for freedom and independence. Our soldiers were shoulder to shoulder in the battles of World War I. The entry of the Russian Empire into the First World War was also associated with our consistent support for the Serbian people. The present year for our country is as important as the year of the Russian revolutions. We know well that in both Russia and Serbia and the world, these events are considered different. In our country, citizens will always be grateful to remember that during this most difficult time, the Serbian people received about 70,000 of our countrymen, who had to leave their homeland, among them, the President of the First Russian Parliament of the State Dume Michael Rodzjankov, a priested synod of the Russian foreign Orthodox Church, headed by the Mytropolitan Kyivian Antonia, took place at the invitation of the patriarch of Serbian Dimitri in Sremski Karlovci. In Serbia alone, the Russian volunteer army was granted permission to continue its military service, to preserve its flags, honour and dignity of the Russian army. In reconstructed, at the initiative of our colleagues present here today, Senator Kasachev, Valery Ryazanski, Anatoly Lisicin, hundreds of generals, admirals and officers of the Russian army were buried on the Russian Necropolis Memorial in Belgrade. Once again, I want to say thank you very much to you, our Serbian brothers. It is symbolic that the beautiful building of the National Assembly is the result of our friendship. One of its creators, Nikolai Krasnov, a prominent Russian-Serbian architect, whose creation belongs to the two nations. 73 years ago, we defeated the fascist conquerors together and freed Belgrade. We have consistently supported and supported the people of Serbia in the Kosovo issue, which has been provoked by much external aggression and senseless interference in the domestic affairs of then-Yugoslavia by NATO member states. From this tribune, I want to assure you that Serbia can continue to count on the support of Russia and our people. Today, relations between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Serbia have been established with the strategic partnership, covering all areas of co-operation. Political dialogue is developing intensively. Meetings are held regularly at a high and highest level. The two countries' governments, parliaments of the two countries, co-operate closely. Positive dynamics show trade-economic co-operation of mutual benefit. According to the results of last year, our trade in goods increased to one and three percent. According to the results of the first six months of this year, the increase was 16%. I think he'll be even bigger by the results this year. Investment co-operation is increasing, above all, in the fields of energy and transport. In fact, major projects are being implemented after the modernisation of Serbian railways. The joint effort continues the development of the oil company, which is one of the biggest jobs, the donor and will pay taxes in the country. I would like to remind you that the Free Trade Agreement has been in force between our two countries since 2000. I think that, you will agree with me, this agreement justifies the expectations that are related to him and creates favourable conditions for further economic co-operation. Life requires, of course, the restoration of the formats and mechanisms of our co-operation. Now talks are being held between Serbia and the Euro-Asian Economic Commission on the unification of the trade regime in the context of an initiative on the formation of a large Euro-Asian space, launched by the president of the Russian Federation. A successful conclusion of the negotiations will allow, and these negotiations go very intensively, that will allow Serbia to come to a new level of co-operation with the Euro-Asian Economic Union. It will ensure the expansion of the market for Serbian goods. There is great potential in the sphere of interregional co-operation. Among Russian Federation entities and municipalities of Serbia, very intense and close bilateral ties have been established, as well as economic and monetary ties. Almost all Russia's regions work differently with Serb municipalities. In the Federation Council, we have good experience in maintaining inter-regional forums with our and foreign partners, and under the auspices of parliament. I suggest to you, colleagues, that you support the idea of organising Russian-Serbian inter-regional forums, which will lead to co-operation from the mutual benefit of the Russia-Serbia region. We could each year, under the auspices of parliament, hold such forums with the leaders of our regions. Dear colleagues, language, spiritual and cultural closeness of the peoples of Russia and Serbia is our common and historical dignity. There is no doubt that unity should be guarded and strengthened, passed on to new generations. Today, the protection of general memory is becoming more and more relevant. In Europe, cases of the destruction of memorials to victims and heroes of World War II have been common. In Ukraine and Poland, the destruction of the liberators' monuments has become an element of state policy. Our peoples have paid a great price for cleaning Europe and the world from Nazism. In our countries, they honor the memory of the Liberation Soldiers. I think it could be considered recognising victory over Nazism by the results of World War II, as the world heritage of humanity, and also a memorial to those anti-Nazim fighters in all countries to become World War II memorials. The instrument of realization of such an idea could have been the creation of an international register of monuments against Nazism. It's very important for memory, but it's important that nothing in the world could ever happen in advance. We see threats, new challenges, heroization of Nazism, when new people appear in those walks. So let us together consider a common approach to one nation and UNESCO with this initiative. This will allow the world community's attention to the work of countries that want to cross or rewrite the most important pages of history of the 20th century, which are written in the blood of our ancestors. Respecting the common past, we must take steps to preserve our unity in the future. I think that we Parliamentarians need to pay more attention to the development of our humanitarian ties. Namely, expanding student exchanges, creating conditions for learning Russian language, developing links in science and culture, thus more history knows a number of examples of such co-operation. We can remember here Russian Enlightener Maxim Suvorov, who opened first half of the 18th century in Serbia the first civilian school. Russian parliamentarians are ready to join in the work on strengthening humanitarian ties. Let's exchange ideas together to plan perspective mechanisms, formats for developing bilateral co-operation in this direction. In the atmosphere of a significant increase in tension in international relations, we parliamentarians must play an important role in improving the global creative and, above all, the non-conflict agenda for the international community. The results of the 137th Interparliamentary Alliance Assembly held in October in St. Petersburg are convincing. The assembly has become the largest in terms of representatives for the entire history of the parliamentary alliance, which is over 100 years old. In the northern capital of Russia, parliamentary delegations of 160 countries gathered. The Serbian parliament that joined the Interparliamentary Alliance 126 years ago, back in 1891, is one of the oldest and most respected members of the Interparliamentary Union. 2/2 TJ/J I would like once again to thank Mrs Gojkovic, all members of the National Assembly delegation for traditional and energetic work within the Interparliamentary Assembly. Once again, I was convinced that Mrs Gojkovic is not only a prominent state political official of Serbia, not only the famous person of Russia, but also a man of great authority in international parliamentary society. The Interparliamentary Alliance Assembly held has shown that our large parliamentary family mainly shares a common approach to building international co-operation. It is about respecting the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of sovereign states. In the fight against aggressive exports of foreign values, about the inability to impose any model of democracy, as reportedly universal, because each state must independently create its state structure on the basis of common principles of democracy, but given its historical characteristics and modern reality, on the inadmissibility of the application of sanctions, primarily sanctions against parliamentarians. During its centuries-old history, Serbia has repeatedly been an object of harsh external pressure. To repeat once again, we will never forget in Russia these tragic events for your country, the aggression of the West of the 1990s, and whose result was the forced destruction of the modern European state and the violent change within European borders. It is inadmissible that today you would be put back in front of an artificial choice, either west or Russia. Russia has always advocated the right of every sovereign state to co-operate with any partner. Today, Serbia is one of the few countries in Europe that defends this very position. There are not many countries in the world, unfortunately, that have this privilege of real sovereignty. Serbia, like Russia, is exactly like this country. I would especially like to stress that we highly appreciate the position of Serbia, which, regardless of pressure from third countries, is a firm act against illegal anti-Russian sanctions based on imaginary reasons, which are aimed at curbing Russia's economic growth and development, to curb Russia's growing influence in international affairs. That attitude of yours is a true friendship in a real step that requires a lot of courage. Not all states have found such courage, and you have it. It is said that true friendship is not a service and they usually do not thank it, but regardless, we in Russia highly appreciate the political and moral principle of your country. Dear colleagues, we love football very much in Russia. I know it's probably number one in Serbia, too. I would like to sincerely congratulate you on the national football team of the Republic of Serbia in the final part of the 18th World Cup, which, as you know, will be held in Russia next year. I think a good prize for the winners of the Russian-language contest, held in Serbia, could be tickets to some important games of the upcoming championship. If you'll support it, we'll have to organize it. I know there are true football supporters between the members of Serbia's parliament, and I would therefore like to invite a team of Serb parliamentarians to participate in the traditional football game The Cup of Heroes, held every year under the auspices of the Federation Council on the eve of the Day of Victory, May 9th. I'm asking you to make sure you take part. My colleagues, I would like to say that with all this the role of women has been growing very much lately and this is very visible in the case of Serbia, where the president of the state is a man, and in other important functions, where there is a lot of work to be done, are women. And in this room I see that many women are parliamentarians and I am taking the opportunity to invite you, ladies, to the delegation of our brotherly Serbia to take part next year in September at the Second Euro-Asian Women's Forum. That forum is being conducted by the Federation. We will look forward to the arrival of your delegation and I ask Mrs Gojkovic to consider the possibility of being at the head of this delegation. My colleagues, I am absolutely convinced, starting with my experience, that the expansion of our countries' interparliamentary co-operation plays an important role in the development of the entire interstate relationship complex. I would like to thank you all, honourable MPs, Parliament Speaker Majo Gojkovic, for your great contribution to the development of our friendship, our ties and our co-operation. You know, we're always waiting in Russia, and we'll be glad to see you there. We in Russia know everything that unites us. We carefully preserve that precious legacy in our historical memory, which binds us for centuries. They have passed the most severe temptation, and that is why we can boldly say in the world there is no power capable of bringing down our friendship, our brotherhood and our trust, no matter how much effort someone in there puts into it. Dear friends, the famous Russian poet who has done much to support the Slovenian peoples' struggle for freedom Fjodor Tutchev said very nicely. His song, called "Slavjanam", was written in 1867. Let me quote some sentences: “We were separated from the very wicked fate, yet we are the only nation of the same mother sons. ” I am convinced that our friendship and brotherhood will be a reliable basis for our new completion and victory. Let me send you, your beautiful country and your beautiful people of success, prosperity and joy.
