ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21897	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall, or that there are at least 84 MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21898	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is for the Prime Minister, Mrs. Ana Brnabic. In fact, unless there is another offer in the next few days, the Galenika sales commission will be defined between the two companies between Switzerland's Amicus and Brazil's Ensa. My question to the Prime Minister is - why is Galenika being sold? Galenika is the largest national drug manufacturer. It was a domestic factory that produced a wide range of drugs in its own time, exported to African countries, exported to the countries of the former Soviet Union. Why does the government sell the largest domestic drug manufacturer? By selling Galenika, we will lose any domestic drug manufacturer. We'll become addicted to imports, and we know what that looks like. We will become consumers, not producers who can produce those medicines needed by the Serbian market, which the Serbian market is used to and only remember "Torlak", because if "Torlak" remained, there would be no discussion today whether children should be vaccinated or not. Something similar will happen to us if Galenika becomes a private company, whether it is Swiss, Brazilian, or some third. True, the factory has a negative capital of 152m euros and is sold for only one euro, provided that bankers owed 75m euros to buy the debt for 25m euros. The new owner will bring his management and will make Galenika a successful company that will easily return 25m euros to bankers. But the profits the company will take will not go to Serbia. The profile will go either to the Swiss or to the Brazilians or to some third firm. We've got managers, managers who've been great at showing up, like, Mr Babić from Hemofarm, I do not favour him, I quote him as an example, there are others who, I'm sure, are capable of putting Galenika on his feet so that we can preserve our only and biggest drug manufacturer. So my questions are the following, first – why are you selling Galenika? Are you aware that Serbia will completely lose its domestic pharmaceutical industry? Are you aware that you are pushing us into total pharmaceutical dependence on foreigners and putting us in the position of consumers who don't decide anything at all, or what Serbia needs from drug palettes, or about the prices of medicines, because when you have domestic production, then you can address someone through the ministries and the public, and in this case you can't address anyone? Are you aware that the import lobby will be even more captivated, which will now, without domestic competition, import drugs of questionable quality, because their goal is not to treat the population, but rather to make fast profits? The second issue concerns foreign ministers, Mr Dacic and the president of Serbia, Mr Vukic, as regards the status of the humanitarian centre in Nis. At the beginning of the year, Foreign Minister Dacic said at one session that the humanitarian centre issue must be resolved, whether the centre is closed or given a special diplomatic status and said he would ask then Prime Minister Vukic what would happen at the first next session. It's been seven months, maybe even eight months, and nothing happened. I see, two moments have arrived, though they haven't been remounted, but they have arrived, but there's not a word about the humanitarian center. My question is for Minister Dacic and President Vukic – what have you decided to do with the humanitarian centre and when have you decided to do what you decided to do?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21899	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marinika Tepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21900	I thank the chairman. I have two questions. First, I refer to the president of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic. It refers to last week when we previously discussed amendments to the educational laws, and then in the evenings we began and ended the vote. It was September 27th. In that day, about ten to two, it turned out that there was no longer any time for the Rules of Procedure to explain amendments of the People's Jobs which were the proposings of these amendments. That is, at that time, about ten to twelve, the president of the National Assembly informed that the 10-hour period foreseen for the Rules of Procedure had expired. The reaction of almost all of the opposition's jobs as well as the major amendments was that it was not true and that this time had been stolen from us because by direct insight and monitoring in the data of the National Assembly technical service we saw that there were more than 200 minutes left, or almost four hours left to explain the amendments. We heard informally that President Gojkovic had followed and recorded the time spent to explain the amendments personally and manually. I wonder if that's true? If it is true, because there is no other explanation that anyone would argue that we do not have more time and that it will take us more than four hours of discussion and that there is no discussion at all about the Law on Higher Education or on Amendments, I ask President Gojkovic to provide me with this record of her, therefore, photocopies of her hand and personal records. I'm also asking her, I assume she'll be helped by technical services, provided with information as to how many MPs explained the amendments last week and how long it took to explain all their amendments individually. So, I want to get a list of all the MPs who have explained their amendments to the educational laws and, despite the time they have spent explaining their amendments, so that we finally have the correct information whether or not the technical service has failed. I don't believe the technical service has made an appointment. I have a reasonable suspicion that we've been stolen four hours of time to explain the amendments. The next question I ask is today's date. Today is a very important date, which is October 5th, when it ends in the 17th year since more than 700,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia showed their anger on the streets of Belgrade, in an attempt to oppose the theft of elections, namely the end of electoral will against then-led leader Slobodan Milosevic and all those who have helped him lead a catastrophic policy, not only the Socialist Party of Serbia, but also the Serbian Radical Party, most of whom today leads this country, so...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21901	Comrade Marinika, you haven't told who you're asking the second question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21902	My question, in accordance with all these circumstances, I urge the Prime Minister and all government members to answer me individually and especially what they did on 5 October 2000, where they were on 5 October 2000. For some we know, such as Minister Knezevic or Minister Ljajic, and Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic, but I ask that individual ministers tell us where they were and what they were doing on 5 October 2000. I am also taking the opportunity to congratulate all conscious citizens of the Republic of Serbia on that October 5th and never forget it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21903	We'll pass on your second question, colleague Marinika, just don't know if they have the right of government members to answer, since it's not part of their public function, where they were on October 5, 2000, when this building burned down. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21904	Mr Arsic, I am using the business opportunity to request a notice and explanation from the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic on behalf of the SRS Group. I will ask you, Mr. Arsic, since I see that you are zealous from this morning, that you pass this question, or question, of us, of Serbian radicals, under the label - urgently. Because the urgency of seeking an explanation is that the situation is more than alarming and because we were informed from the media yesterday that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. Ana Brnabic himself, in Brussels, on October 10th or 11th, will deliver a letter to the enemies of the European Union with a certain question. And imagine, they will ask the European Union if it has violated international law in the case of Kosovo and Metohija, following all these shocking events and their stance on Catalonia. Mr Arsic, therefore our question is to Vukic and Ana Brnabic – how much more will you deceive the Serbian people, when it is well known to everyone, Vukic as a lawyer, Serbian Prime Minister must also know that because he is in charge of the country's foreign policy, that the international declaration of relations between states means that every country has the right to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity? Also, this general declaration that every student of the Faculty of Law also knows, states that in the event of non-compliance with the international law of the Member States, in this case the UN, which is Serbia, because the UN Security Council 1244 is what needs to protect our territorial integrity, so in this case Serbia needs to stop immediately any further contact with Brussels, which is going on further deployment and will at one point in front of Vukic and Brnabic, that is to say to all of you who are silent about all this and you are discussing irrelevant and irrelevant laws in this country, to come and give you a document to sign independence and finally secession of our southern Serbian province. That's true, they've been saying all their moves so far and all your moves for the past five or six years since you've been in power. I will remind our citizens, as early as 2014, of the European Union, which intends to tear Kosovo and Metohija out of Serbia and after recognition of so-called The independence of the terrorist Shipar formation, 2014 prescribed a Declaration of a comprehensive solution for Kosovo, they say. And you accepted it. What else is an introduction to confession? How long will Alexander Vukic, as president of Serbia, lead such a policy, be our question and explanation? We ask that any further contact with Brussels and with officials from the European Union be immediately interrupted, to turn to those who are our friends, which is the brother's Russian Federation, which, while they are doing all this to us, humiliate us and further pressure us against Serbia, Brother Russia sends us the most modern weaponry, which is only one in a series of military equipment that should arrive in case we have such relations with the Russian Federation. Mr Arsic, since this meeting of the National Assembly, it has been since 3 June 2016, the Serbian Radical Party's MP group has been on these issues, and we have warned of this before, and our president and other MPs who have been asking questions about the southern Serbian province have received answers - zero. So we didn't get any answers. Also, Mr. Arsic, you, as vice president of the ruling coalition, Maja Gojkovic and, since he is not here now, Martinovic, you have been obliged, gentlemen, to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to send us an annual report on its work, so that we ask questions here to the Prime Minister, not to ask the enemies of the European Union how they intend to take away Kosovo and Metohija, to humiliate us and to destroy our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21905	Thank you. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21906	Thank you, Your Honor, as MPs of the SDA Sandzak, representatives of the Bosniaks, today we have two questions that are of paramount importance to our people. The first question I refer to Police Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic and ask him to explain his shameful statement, in which as a senior state official, lies about the brutal murder of a young man from Tutin Fahrudin Skarep, who was killed by a uniform police officer of the Republic of Serbia. In his statement, the minister said, and I quote him: "The criminal shot at them, and their legal obligation is to draw up their weapons and defend their lives. These people are specially trained and when they draw weapons, there was obviously a good reason." Because of such lies in normal countries, a police officer either resigns himself or is replaced by that function. In addition, Stefanovic, as a senior official of this country, draws a conclusion and practically dictates to the prosecution and judges how to behave about this case and says, I am quoting it again – that these officers defended their lives and acted in accordance with the law. Where does he get the right to draw such conclusions before the investigation is completed and before the trial is completed? I also ask Minister Stefanovic to deliver a full police report on the case, as well as findings of the experts. We have warned years ago that numerous unsolved crimes against Bosniaks in Sandzak are an encouragement to commit new crimes, and this is precisely proof of that. The lack of punishment for the murder of Rama Berb, for the perpetrators and employers of kidnappings in Strpci and the North, has created a perverse awareness that Bosniaks in Sandzak can be killed without punishment and for no reason whatsoever, only because you wear a badge or a uniform. We have called on countless times so far to shed light on the murders of Enes Idinovic, Harun Alić, taxi driver Mirza Radonjica, and the murder of Avd Sutkovic, all in the city centre of Novi Pazar. For years, however, these investigations have not moved from a dead end, which best shows the disastrous state of police in Sandzak and their relationship with Bosniaks, who are victims of the most violent crimes. We provide absolute support to the citizens and call on them to express their dissatisfaction and protest in a peaceful and dignified manner and not to buy into the provokings of the police minister in these statements, so that this case will not be misused for further spread of international impatience. A second question, the Serbian government sent the UN tribunal two days ago a guarantee to release Ratko Mladic. The issue is being referred to by Justice Minister Nelli Kuburovic. I don't know how some Bosniaks in this assembly will continue to support this government that provides guarantees for the release of a criminal who led the execution of genocide against Bosniaks in Srebrenica. Among Bosniak MPs... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21907	Imamovic, I'll give you back your word. I'm asking you not to grant qualifications. So, the suspect, I accept that, but finally ruled, without a court ruling, not that. You've got 90 seconds left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21908	I know it's hard for you to listen to five minutes of things that Bosniaks have been living with for 20 years, but be patient. As a legitimate representative of the Bosniaks, I am asking the minister of justice to say on what grounds did she give guarantees for the release of Ratko Mladic? Did this government take care of the interests and feelings of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia of Bosniak nationality when it gave guarantees for the release of this war criminal and what guarantees could the government in a country that had been hiding Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic for 16 years? I call upon my fellow Bosniak MPs in this assembly, that if they deny their support to this government today that protects and guarantees the release of a war criminal. This is proof that Vucic's calls for dialogue with Bosniaks are just a performance for Europe and for naive Bosniaks. I don't know how he'll be able to say that he's in favour of a good relationship with the Bosniak people and with Bosnia and Herzegovina. He eventually declared this assembly a safe house, glued posters to Ratko Mladic's boulevard, so this move is just another one in a series of provocations at the expense of the Bosniak people and at the expense of the state of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21909	You're bringing the end, my colleague Imamovic. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21910	These are very important questions... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21911	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21912	I thank you, Chairman. As a Serbian host, I will ask one very important question for us in Serbia, for all of us who love and respect women in the first place. Since we know that in 1995 a decision was made at the Beijing Women's Conference to mark October 15th as the day of women in the country, that is a sign that this gave great attention to our women living in the country. My question is – will the government or the competent ministry mark October 15th as the day of women in the country? I know that our government and our president Mr. Vukic is always in the first place, and with me and my colleagues in my neighborhood, saying that we have to put an accent on women in the country, on our women. And when the time comes to hire poor municipalities, we must always look to provide jobs for women. For me, as a man from Srlig, as a Serbian host, it was always a rule to respect a woman, to respect women, because I know that behind each of us, behind all men, there are successful, correct and good women. Our women in the country are in a very difficult situation, because we all know that they don't have the opportunity as women in the city to provide themselves with basic living conditions, precisely because living conditions in villages are a little different than they are in the city. I would pray that my colleagues don't mind me, because I know that all the colleagues who are here with me in the assembly feel the same way I do. We all know that we have to provide our women in the country with better living conditions, we have to provide better health insurance, because we know that both our government and our minister are preparing a law that will give women in the country who are family, that they are paid maternity leave, that they have the opportunity to have maternity benefits, that they have the possibility that our children who are born there have the right to a child's allowance. Another question of mine is, will this law be here soon at our assembly, to declare it, to provide our women in the country with the future? I am sure that together with the Ministry without portfolios, Dr. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, we will have the opportunity to provide our women in the country with much better conditions, that they can make them work, and that they can live from their work. We know by the statistics that there are about a quarter of women living in the country in the world. There are over 43% of women living in the country in the poor areas of the world. In Serbia, many of our women in the country are trying to be socially useful, helping their family, always in the field, in the meadow, working in the house, but whenever it comes to helping their old. That's why I'd like to, and I'm sure we'll have laws here in the coming period that will contribute to providing our women in the country with better conditions to live. I, as always, will give an accent to southeastern Serbia, because there must be much more resources for our women in the country, because they are much harder to live there than in other parts of Serbia. A specific question has been asked and I would invite all colleagues and colleagues to give maximum support to our women in the country, precisely because they are the pillar of our society, the pillar of our Serbia. I say once again, Serbian President, Mr. Vukic, with me at a meeting, which was a month ago, said we must put an emphasis on hiring our women and especially hiring our women in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21913	Thank you, fellow Miletic. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21914	Thank you, Chairman. My question is for the interior minister, Mr. Nebojsa Stefanovic. Namely, did he knowingly or unconsciously lead the citizens astray six months ago when during the protest, which was spontaneously organised after the presidential elections in Belgrade, said that no measures against the protesters would be taken, that Serbia is a democratic country and that everyone has the right to express their dissatisfaction? He said the police had no intention of harming anyone in any way, including these undeclared meetings, but that the police were unable to protect the citizens because the protest was unannounced. Six months after his statement, after the protests lasted a month, they were peaceful and democratic, ended as they ended, the Serbian public is aware that young people who attended those protests received criminal charges and are due to appear at the judges for violations because they violated the Law on Public Assembly. Therefore, I ask Minister Stefanovic – did he, knowingly or unconsciously, tell the truth when he said that no measures against citizens who are gathering will be taken on the street then? Unfortunately, I believe he did it consciously, because it is not the first time that Minister Stefanovic is not telling the truth. He doesn't tell the truth when he says he doesn't know who the complete samala idiots are... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21915	Comrade Djurishic, I ask you a question without an answer. You give the answer and ask the question. (Marko Djurisic: Just listen carefully, Mr Arsic, and you will understand. I listen very carefully. Ask for a word again, you'll get it, no problem. (Marko Djurisic: If you are not clear by now, let me explain the essence of the question for another three minutes. To explain the essence of the question? Come on, try it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21916	Thank you, Vice President. So, Minister Stefanovic goes public every day and makes certain statements. The problem is that after a while we see that his statements were not true. The question then arises – how should Serbian citizens react when they hear a statement by Minister Stefanovic? Should they be concerned when he says that the state is successfully fighting crime and corruption and that it has results, and then after a few months or weeks, you can see that these results are gone? When he says the situation on the streets of Serbia is peaceful, and then we see mob-style murders? When does he say that the police will deal with the biggest criminals, drug dealers, and then we see that they're being released? When he says that the state will deal with hooligans in sports clubs, and then we see that there's no power to deal with hooligans, probably because he's in some special relationship with them? It's very serious stuff. Serbian citizens pay a high price, are at risk of personal security due to such treatment primarily by the interior minister. The interior minister, when the police arrived at the headquarters of a political organization, said it wasn't true, and then after a few hours, it was seen that it was true because the video showed up. Maybe my question was rhetorical, that he was conscious or unconscious when he said what he said. It is obvious that both Minister Stefanovic and other members of the government and the president of the Republic deceive the citizens of the Republic of Serbia on a daily basis. That is why this parliament here and this small part of asking questions serves to point out to Serbian citizens all those lies that are being served daily from the top of the Serbian state. (Srbislav Filipovic: How are we going to send this? How will he answer this question? ) (Marko Djurisic: Shut up, horse. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21917	Mr. Djurishic, I give you a warning, because you called your fellow messenger a horse. What did he say to me, Arsic? And then to me. ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic. Marko Djurisic: What did he say to me? ) Please, my colleague Đurisic, he didn't tell you anything. (Srbislav Filipovic: Đurisic, when you get drunk, you see horses. Don't get kicked by a horse. Marko Djurisic: He didn't say anything to me? Then I didn't tell him anything. Everyone heard you called your colleague a horse. Marko Djurisic: How are you not ashamed? ) The word has a People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21918	Thank you. My question will be about the current atmosphere in the National Assembly when it is thought that it can be done by will, not by rule of law. I would ask my colleagues to listen carefully to the question, since these questions will be often and every day. I ask you to try to tell the Messengers not to yell at fellow Messengers, lest they shout at them, sitting down, screaming at the messengers who go out or enter the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21919	Col. Comić, leave this job to me, and you ask the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21920	So if you were doing it, I'd leave it, but don't do it, that's a bit of a problem. It'll be a common problem for everyone in months to come. I really ask you to listen very carefully to the question I have to ask Minister of European Integration Jadranka Joksimovic and chief of the negotiating team Tanja Miscevic. It is my request to deliver the dates, the date plan for the implementation of the action plan for chapters 23 and 24 – the judiciary and fundamental rights, justice, defence and security. Today is October 5th, a day that was a turning point in Serbia, a day that founded Serbia's European policy, whose Serbian government is a political performer. The fifth October heritage of the ruling coalition made up of the SNS, the SPS and all other parties in the government that have also contributed to this European day in Serbia and to European policies in Serbia. Eighty-seven days ahead of us is the deadline for the implementation of the Action Plan for Chapters 23 and 24. The ease that comes immediately to the realization of what Serbia has committed has passed for various reasons so far, it no longer passes. That honeymoon is over. I know the Minister is working hard and reporting to the Committee on European Integration, but I don't need her report with this question. I need, I repeat, dates in the next 87 days to apply action plans for Chapters 23 and 24. We have committed ourselves to reforming the judiciary, we have committed ourselves to amending laws concerning both judges and prosecutors, we have committed ourselves to adopting a new legal framework when it comes to minorities, when it comes to gender equality, when it comes to protecting personal data, when it comes to high-tech crime. The government owes the Assembly dates for these legal frameworks for the action plan to be implemented. Not to mention that we have committed to changing the Constitution by the end of 2017. With a request to know the dates for when the government decided to apply action plans 23 and 24 through its bodies... I'm asking you to take this very seriously. You can make fun of me. You won't mock when the Bundestag is established, so the German MPs will tell you. You make fun of me, I don't care, but this job has to be done. And this House is bound by the government's dates. With the request to know the dates of the implementation of action plans for 23 and 24, I remind all of us of a common obligation, which we have also committed ourselves to, which is the adoption of an ethical code for MPs. I can pretend I don't know who's in charge of it, so I can ask the President of the Assembly or someone else, but I won't do it, because it's our mutual obligation, and we can do it. Serbia has many friends in the EU, there is not a single friend who has said a good sentence about the state of media and the state of law in Serbia for the past year. Do not let the will and will to mock the rule of law separate you from what Serbia has committed, which is the Action Plan for Chapters 23 and 24. We have 87 days to send good news to the EU and the good news is that the government has addressed me with a response to what the dates are in the next 87 days for the application of action plans for Chapters 23 and 24.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21921	Thank you. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21922	Thank you. My first question is for the chairman Arsic – would you be kind, I would ask you, if during my address, if you start making a big noise in the hall to use the bells that are at your disposal, since you know that there were situations where I had to get used to? Thank you in advance. Then, questions in front of the parliamentary group are enough we have for a recent prime minister, and the current president of the Republic of Serbia. We have so far asked questions to Alexander Vukic on 28 occasions, we have not received a single answer, despite the fact that the time limit is 15 days. Today, on the 29th time, we ask him three questions and expect an answer again and we ask him questions until we get answers to what we are interested in the citizens we represent here. The first question is whether the SNS coalition with Haradinaj is actually making a precondition for ousting the preamble on Kosovo from the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? The second question is whether the President will return to the Assembly for reviewing the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System and the Law on Higher Education, since their adoption in the Assembly did not respect the prescribed procedure and that the MPs, and therefore also the citizens who have been here, had been denied more than four hours of debates under amendments that sought to improve the resolutions of the law? The third question is, when will the President of the Republic of Serbia finally start answering the questions we ask him? Then, we have questions for Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic. We've been asking her questions at 19 times, this is 20 times we've done it, so far we haven't received a single answer despite the fact that she has a legal deadline of 15 days to answer those questions. So the first question now in this 20 address is, when are we finally going to get answers to these questions? The second question for President Gojkovic is, when will the secretary-general, Svetislava Bulajic, publicly apologize for the insults and humiliations she said during the direct transfer of the assembly session in the Republic of Serbia? I think it would be good if he did so publicly, from the same assembly pay phone that they came from and insulted, because he would send a message from this home that insults, humiliations, and mobins are not acceptable behaviors in our society, and that we, by example, in the National Assembly, are showing it. The second question is, when will regular colleges finally begin? When we finally get a plan of work of the Assembly, an annual work plan like the Rules of Procedure commands, because we're doing a verse by emergency procedure for the year and a half of June 3rd of last year, not knowing today what our laws will be on the agenda next week, and not telling you that we actually need to know six months in advance so that we can prepare quality for discussion and quality amendments to apply. So we ask President Gojkovic how long will he in this perfidious way sabotage the quality work of the Assembly? Thank you very much and thank you to your colleagues for being quiet.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21923	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21924	No one can answer my questions, but my God, I have to ask them. First question for Alexander Vukic, BIA Director Bratislava Gasic and Chief VBA, does our services make security assessments and how do these security assessments work? This is not only about my previous issue of security assessment, Ana Brnabić, but I am interested in what are the security assessments of the past Nenad Kovac, called Neša Roming and Sava Terzic, persons who co-operate with the highest state authorities in business, say, the EI Inspector with all inspection boards, with the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, co-operate with the military, with the police, with security services, because their software is used in all state authorities. I mean, the National Assembly. In 2001. Sava Terzic, as director of Certus Company, could not get a job, the introduction of electronic locks to Central Prison because he failed to pass a security check, because he was convicted of stealing a driver's license in 1994 and now that man can co-operate with the highest state authorities, where the highest degree of security assessment is required, and since 2006/2007. Until today, he and Nenad Kovac are the main money launderers for all drug cartels in Serbia. You have them on footage of a Balkan warrior, who recorded these same security services legally in a legal procedure, but they co-operate with the highest state authorities. I wonder how. Another question for the economy minister and the director of the APR, explain to me how is it possible by law that one company can own itself? From 2014 to today, the company "Lanus" The company of DoO is 66% owned by itself. That's impossible by law. The law stipulates that a small part of you can be the owner in a short period of time, or that part is deleted. Are the true owners of “Lanus” hiding? Behind those 66% of connected persons leading to the Netherlands, are Nenad Kovac hiding, of course, he is the real owner of "Lanus", but also some politicians Goran Vesic, Sinisa Mali, Nikola Petrovic, Godfather of Nenad Kovac and who else? I'm asking this question inspired by media allegations that some arrest is about to take place with Dragan Gilas, so I wanted to say that Dragan Gilas certainly doesn't have to worry that he'll be arrested because one man is his guarantee, Nenad Kovac. Nenad Kovač was his business partner and until 2014 they worked together through this "Lanus", but since 2014 they have been entering the business Siniša Mali, Goran Vesic, from earlier, of course, Nikola Petrovic and from earlier, of course, Aleksandar Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21925	My colleague, I still don't understand and I don't hear your question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21926	You heard, so my question is, if Dragan Gilas were to be arrested, he would have to arrest Vukic himself. The third question for the same persons of Knezevic and the director of APR, how is it possible to delete a Certus company on the day after I mentioned this company here in the Assembly when it was voted for Anna Brnabić, when I asked her for a relationship with this company, to delete the company on the phone even though they are both in front of the business court and before the administrative court? There's a criminal record against the fog registrator for his numerous illegal acts. That man on the phone is entering and deleting data from the APR, so that I can explain how it's possible? Speaking of Sava Terzic, the issue of security authorities related to permits and checks, as well as prosecutors, namely Sava Terzic is co-owner of Global and legal representative, has 45% ownership, 55% property belongs to the Pink International, is the Global Spying Application? There is few of them a spy centre that has Nenad Kovac and Nikola Petrovic in Žarkovje where they transferred him from Cloud Street than they now have another app... Why did you shut me out?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21927	Because you're not asking a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21928	I asked a question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21929	No, you didn't ask a question, you made a comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21930	Please, you stole one and a half minutes from me. This is obstruction. I'm not gonna let...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21931	Mr. Nogo, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21932	What are you doing? I'm not moving out of here.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21933	You have another warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21934	This is a scandal, and you have no right. I asked the security authorities a legitimate question. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21935	Please, colleague Nogo, allow the session to continue its course.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21936	I'm not going to let you, I'm doing what I do according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Arsic, your dad didn't leave the assembly in an amannet.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21937	Mr. Nogo, you've also been taken from your word as a third warning, after that you know what's coming.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21938	I'm not getting out of here. So, you have no right, this isn't your private assembly, I'm asking legitimate questions. That SNS is afraid that Alexander Wolf is involved in crime, that's your thing, I have the right to...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21939	I'm shutting you down from your next session and setting a three-minute break. [[after breaks]] Comrade Nogo, stop it. I ask you to stop insulting the MPs and ask for, you are trying to create a situation for the National Assembly to provoke the other MPs to attack you physically. So let's let them attack me. Well, no one will attack you physically, MPs are mostly decent people... Are you threatening to attack me? I ask you to continue the National Assembly with further work. And I'm asking you to give me back the minute and a half of the time I have left. Don't deny me time. A fellow Markovic, would you like to ask a question? (Srdian Nogo: The Rules of Procedure order me to return the time.) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21941	Dear Chairman, but before you move on to parliamentary matters, please provide conditions that I may speak. (Srdian Nogo: What kind of behavior is this? I didn't get my time. Call Wolfie and ask him what to do. I can't talk right now while my colleague's yelling there and his arms and his legs, I can't concentrate. I'm at risk of security, so I'm asking you to do everything the Rules of Procedure tells you to let me speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21942	I'm setting a ten-minute break. [[after breaks]] We're moving on with our work. The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Marjana Marash.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21944	Your Honor... (Srdian Nogo: No word, I have another minute and a half.) If you don't know how to lead the assembly, you shouldn't be vice president of the assembly. ) (The MP Srdjan Nogo approaches the speaker. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21945	Don't come near me. I'm asking the National Assembly security to enter the building. Don't come near me, please. We interrupt work for ten minutes... Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21947	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... (Srdian Nogo: I apologize, I have another minute and a half time, it's not your Assembly, it's nothing private to you. You have no right to do this to me. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21948	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... . Mr. Arsic, repeat what you just said to me, come on. Ladies and gentlemen, break for one hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-05-0.u21949	Dear MPs, let me speak to you, since we've had longer consultations and conversations. All the vice presidents were invited. Gordana Komic couldn't for some reason. There was a misunderstanding, otherwise she was invited. We also spoke with MP Nog and his colleagues from the parliamentary group. I really tried to make a compromise, so we could keep working today. I'll be honest, I thought we'd be able to do that. A little apology, I'll be honest with you, I asked Srdian Nog's MP. Well, not to apologize to the vice president, but to you MPs for one part of the incident that happened here while I was in the O.R. On the other hand, I have shown my willingness to say that apology in one sentence to continue working, to ask the other MPs a question. There's two more on the list and I'm gonna withdraw all the measures that have been made. We couldn't make a deal. I don't want to bring security people here, the police in an awkward situation, that they have to perform their duties here. It's their job, but we can't expect that from people. It is not correct that parliament has such a picture. We won't be working anymore today. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. We'll have working conditions and we'll keep working. I'm not ready to be present for the unfavorable scenes. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 58 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall and we have working conditions. We continue the work - a joint principled search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1 to 4 of the agenda. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. That's all MPs in the system can do. You don't have the cards, you're not there. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go. (Ivan Kostic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. So, the one who hasn't been identified can't scream. (Ivan Kostic: We have the right to breach the Rules of Procedure. Don't yell. (Bosko Obradovic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning about this behavior. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you cannot approach the chairman unless he has allowed you to. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. (Ivan Kostic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) (Bosko Obradović: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) I express my warning to Bosca Obradovic. (Bosko Obradovic: What is your warning? I'm only asking for patience for the Dverry MP group, who came here for real chaos again. (John Kostic: We didn't come here to cause chaos. ) So it is impossible from day to day that the same parliamentary group is causing chaos, but it seems to have achieved that too. (John Kostic: We will not let the session take place. If you're not working, if you don't have a smarter way of obstructing, please. You weren't identified. I don't want to argue. Ivan Kostic: This is a disaster. ) Article 27 knows who runs the sessions. (John Kostic: Do not let the messengers speak. Don't come any closer, you don't have a license.
