ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25702	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 91 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milisav Petronijevic, Predrag Jelenkovic and Nada Lazic. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Medical Means. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend today's session: Dr Zlatibor Lončar, Minister of Health, Prof. Dr. Berislav Vekić, Dr. Meho Mahmutović, Prof. Dr. Ferenc Vicko and Prof. Dr. Vladimir Đukić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Daniela Urosevic, Assistant Minister of Health, Dragana Vujičić and Sladjana Đukić, Deputy Minister of Health, Lidija Bašić, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Health and Mira Kontic, Adviser at the Ministry of Health. You have received amendments submitted by MPs to the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Health and Family and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The National MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted the title above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25703	Thank you. Here we are on the first of the 501 amendments, how much has been submitted to this proposal for a medical law. Of the 501 amendments, 186 came from the ranks of the ruling coalition. It's almost 40%, which only testifies that this bill is not well written, that it should be withdrawn from the procedure, completed and completed, and then returned to the National Assembly. I repeat what I said in the opening statement when we discussed this law in principle, which is that the MP group Enough was there was nothing against the bill's intention to better regulate this area, to raise standards when it comes to transport, import and export, to use medical resources. What we're arguing about is the way it's done. This law is literally just a translated EU directive, and at least it has been translated to the end, but it has remained in English for parts. Of our 110 amendments aimed at eradicating these shortcomings from this law, absolutely none of them have been accepted. I'm expressing a great deal of regret about it. I hope that he will have the ear of the law's promoter to withdraw this law from the procedure and to arrange it before he returns to the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25704	Thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25705	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when the ball is a medical tool, then you have the right to speak as a previous speaker. So I don't belong to the ruling coalition, I support the ruling coalition, I didn't sign any coalition agreements, and I filed about 140 amendments to these laws. I admit, they are almost identical to the solutions offered by the government. The aim of the amendments is to strengthen the government's proposal and thus give additional power to implement these reforms. It's some kind of cosmetic shift. The second goal is not a little bit more important is the following nature – you are all witnessing that when we set the agenda, we have been harassed for almost seven hours and we just had to listen to what these gentlemen over can say and what they have to say. The opposition that was created outside is used to us keeping our mouths shut, and they're talking. The point of submitting these amendments is that we too can participate in those 10 hours, to support government proposals, although I do not belong to the ruling coalition, because I believe that this law also regulates, improves, and apparently those who have become accustomed to corrupting the state and rule it through bankruptcy administrators cannot possibly understand how it can be proposed by someone who will be supported by a proposal from the government, a proposal from the members, or a proposal from the whole law, are simply meant to be against the proposals that are good. I understand that someone wants to fix the law, however, they are often against themselves. For these reasons, I have submitted these amendments and according to how much they participate in the debate, so I will try to respond in this way to those who are obviously used to speaking alone, and that everyone else must listen to their insults, lies, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25706	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The amendment is proposed by Parliamentarian Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25707	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, this Article 1 determines the conditions for the production and transport of medical resources and their placing on the market, as well as the clinical examination. Speaking of this law, we can then conclude that in the last two years our health care has achieved extraordinary results by coming to the head of Mr. Loncar's ministry, it is enough to mention one thing, which is that we were the last party of the former regime on the ranking list, in fact, we weren't even placed on the ranking list in the first year, and later we were the last, so that today we were in the 24th place of 35, so we made a lot of progress, even left behind by seven EU member states. For two years 2,000 doctors were employed, and 4,000 specializations were approved. All in all, this law also provides for the separation of regulations governing medical remedies from regulations governing medicines. They will also particularly regulate the area of medical medicine for veterinary and human medicine. That is why, in some ways, I want this amendment, as the Government considers that it will not be better applied to it, let us support the government's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25708	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP, Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25709	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I cannot agree with the view that the number of amendments that we politicians are mostly not lawyers, we propose at this assembly, to determine the quality of a law. And especially, not this law, which is supreme, and it's a little strange in this proportion of strength and this way of political struggle where often amendments don't touch certain laws, that one such argument tends to explain the practical quality of a law. Those laws that are good, which were essentially adopted, I had a proposal for an amendment, and that one amendment was adopted. So the debate itself in plenary, which preceded this, made it clear that some political options have used this opportunity and the story of this law for their political stories, so I don't think it stands and is not a valid argument. In any case, the law is good and the law like this with the proposed amendments that have been accepted should be accepted, and those that have been rejected are generally rejected for a reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25710	Thank you. On Article 1 of the amendment, the Members of the Parliament of Parliament together submitted Dr. Dragan Vesović, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25711	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and gentlemen of the ministry, Mr. Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, to the Health Committee and the Family of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia whose member I am in front of the Serbian Movement of the Dveri explained the meaning of submitting pointless amendments to the Serbian Movement of the Dveri. So what has become a practice of the work of this prey is that when we talk about a law, we talk about how representatives of the ruling coalition want to consciously do obstruction by taking what little time the opposition has to talk about the laws for themselves, submitting pointless amendments. In addition to amendments such as the Serbian Dvora Movement, we have a whole series of amendments submitted by representatives of the ruling coalition. Both on the Committee and now I have said that the Serbian Dvori Movement is ready to withdraw its amendments if all those who belong to the authorities, and want to knowingly obstruct the work of this parliament, do the same. For now, for as long as I can get back to you, we'll see what the government does.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25712	I thank Mr. Vesovic, but there is no reason to divide the amendments into meaningless and meaningful. It is legitimate for every MP and position and opposition to submit the amendment and to speak about its amendment, and the opinion on the amendments is given by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Resort Ministry. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Tomislav Žigmanov and Veroljub Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic submitted together to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25713	Very brief chairman. Dear Ministers, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like first to thank the Minister for the accepted amendment. As I said in the principle debate, we have submitted several technical amendments aimed at improving the text itself, and most of these amendments have been adopted. What I'm trying to say is that when we in the SNS are putting up with the amendments, whether it's essential, technically, it's not that important in this case, we don't make a political story out of it, we don't want to profit from it. What we don't particularly want is to abuse the Rules of Procedure to write the amendment, to have those two minutes, to talk about who knows what, and most often about what's never the subject of the agenda. That's the fundamental difference between us and them. I'm proud to point out that most of our amendments have been adopted, but I don't want to waste my time, I just want to thank the Minister for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25714	Thank you. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga proposed to amend Article 1 with one amendment and add Articles 1a and 1b. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Branka Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted to the title above Articles 2 and 2 of the amendment. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25715	The amendment in Article 2 has tried to correct a bunch, but also a bunch of ambiguities that are inadmissible in one law, wrong definitions, changing meanings, otherwise usually adopted terms, which can in practice easily create wrong interpretations, and all of this is contrary to the unique methodological rules for making rules that require that ambiguity in laws should not be and which require that normal terms in their usual meaning should not change their meaning. For a completely unknown reason, the legislator felt that the term of a natural person for which we all, in common, know what it means, was all of us from the moment we were born, and on and on, in this Article 2 he defines as an entrepreneur, i.e. that every time a physical person stands in the law, they actually don't mean a physical person, they mean an entrepreneur. Why and why? There is absolutely no reason to change the usual meaning of words – a physical person. We could have also used the word - entrepreneur, when we think of the entrepreneur, because there is a common meaning. What you've done with this definition illustrates everything else that we have objections to in this law and what our amendments apply to. We find that inadmissible and we appeal once again for the law to be withdrawn from the procedure, to improve, and then to return to the National Assembly for a new decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25716	The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25717	Dear Members of Parliament, the Honorable Chairman and the citizens watching the broadcast, I absolutely understand that you have a goal of your own, and that you will be told a story that suits you. Unfortunately, what you're saying has nothing to do with the purpose of this law. It's just this law that's being passed to regulate things. You have to define yourself if at all possible, what I suggest you take just one attitude in which direction you want to go. Do you mean when you say foreign words, if you say they don't work out foreign words, and you say, "This doesn't make sense, let's get it straight." Here, I'll explain it to you on one very specific case. The foreign words that are used here are used for one, the most justified reason, because when you have a study, when you have something that has been recognised throughout Europe, not only happens in Serbia, but it happens in several countries at that moment, and these are the key words that serve only the Medicines Agency to identify the topic and to make it easier to work on it. These words and all of these expressions have nothing to do with citizens, or anything, so they only have that reason to easily identify the study, to make it easier to identify the subject and to do it. One minute you're talking, it's synchronised, the second moment it's not synchronised, the third minute it's no good, pull it up and it's okay, I understand you, it's no big deal, it's just that there's no big deal. So everything you say is absolutely regulated by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25718	Thank you. The word is made by MP Branka Stamenkovic after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25719	Thank you. Minister, look at the Act on Medical Products of the Republic of Croatia, which is long ago in the EU. There's only one English word in that law. They keep language, we break language, so the Agency for Medicinal Products knows what it's about. If the Medicines Agency needs a dictionary to understand the law, the dictionary is made out of law and is called a dictionary, is not built into law and does not corrupt Serbian with English words. In doing so, even in English you have spelling errors and instead of the market you wrote a marker.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25720	Mr. Minister, since it was a direct address to you, I'll give you two more minutes as a right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25721	I really have to say I'm sorry we didn't prescribe Croatian law, and I think all of Serbia will regret it. When it's a chance, you sign it, so do whatever you like.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25722	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25723	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am grateful that we have both a Croatian Parliament and a Croatian state lawyer here. With that in mind, I have long disagreed with those who said that Croats are the worst part of the Serbian people. I haven't agreed in a long time. I don't agree now. I'm beginning to think. But, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, no matter how they behave, no matter what the language is here, no matter what the Cyrillic letters are, no matter what they're chasing with hammers and various other tools and devices, everything that's Cyrillic and everything that smells like Serbian, I suggest that we don't look up to them, not only do we not prescribe laws and legal proposals in the way that the Croats did, but we should never be seen worse than ourselves, we should always look at what they achieve better than you. As someone who comes from the village, and I see that the government wants it, as someone who supports the government, I want what a good host wants for its citizens, for its people, for the quality of the lives of our citizens, this time and for the patients, to be preventively protected and for the quality of health to be closer to developed countries, and as far as I can see in the field of health, huge progress has been made in relation to what has been found and I think that every year, the economies, growth and income of health will grow relatively, and that the time will come for us to achieve significantly greater resources than now, and income from abroad in the field of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25724	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojčić, Tomislav Žigmanov and Veroljub Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Ivan Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25725	Dear People's MPs, all of the amendments to the Serbian Dveri Movement in the current assembly of the Republic of Serbia, have made sense behind every amendment we have submitted. But here, you too at this session have the opportunity to hear that in the debate on amendments, there are stories about other things, so I don't understand why SNS MPs get angry when certain parliamentary groups copy what they're already doing several sessions, and I think they're just champions of disrespect for the Rules of Procedure representatives of the ruling coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25726	Mr. Kostic, this is how you explained the amendment to Article 2. Thank you. You have a basis for replication, since the SNS has been mentioned, and you can do it by amendment. Just tell me on what basis did you answer, Mr. Orlic? (Vladimir Orlic: Replica. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25727	Thank you very much. It'll probably be the shortest today, since it's about serious matter and the things that should concern us all and give them the attention they deserve. I would take the opportunity to call everyone on the other side and today a few, obviously to concentrate our attention together, if at all possible, to discuss these things. I understand that from time to time, here and there, someone gets a desire to ease his soul, and among other things to admit certain things. For example, to admit he's a good copyist. But to keep that kind of need on some personal, personal level. You can discuss this internally and after the session, not to burden the National Assembly with it. If it were copyists, it's more than clear, how good, we'll just see. But we're not doing it today, if that's all right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25728	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25729	Here you go. Mr. Milicevic, we have submitted an amendment to Article 2 and in our explanation we have said that it would be good that when laws are written, there is also a member of the 25th single methodological rules for making the rules. What did the promoter write? He says so - a medical agent from item 1 of this point. There's no such thing as right, and here's why. Article 27 says - the position may consist of two or more points. Article 28 may consist of two or more sub-points. Article 36, which refers to the reference to this, states that reference to the system referred to in Article 1 of this Regulation, as set out in Article 1 of this Article, may be made. There's no such thing as point one of this point. I was expecting you, so we helped you sort out that one, you heroically refused. Okay, that's the fate of our amendments, but you'll have problems, not because of this amendment, that you don't get me wrong, you'll generally have a problem with this law because it's really about the failed translation of the rules, which already exist in silent countries that are EU members, and they're also wrong at the translation of those six directives and three regulations. This whole bill exudes indeterminateness, contradiction, and even, you can't even find a connection between the two members. We tried to distract you. We'll get to what's supposed to be the essence of this law later, and these are the standards from then on. We are truly surprised that you did not accept this amendment because the legislation should not have released such a bill in the procedure before the National Assembly, because the category in Section 1 of this point does not exist, absolutely does not exist. Second, the unique methodological rules for writing regulations adopted by the National Assembly, which binds the National Assembly, bind the government as a promoter. They should be respected, but you've decided what you've decided.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25730	Thank you. The People's MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic, Zoran Zivkovic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25731	Thank you very much. I have to join those colleagues who said this was a bad translation and there's no reason to rush the law, so we can't keep what's called the Serbian language. There is certain in this hall those who have been making more noise about the need to guard the Serbian tradition, language and everything else, but it is time for someone to start doing it, so it would be good to start with this law. In Article 2, there's a lot to change. Let's say, an implantable medical agent. It would be okay if it were called an installation tool, for example, if the "free hall of certification" said nicely Serbian – a free transport certificate. We heard one completely pointless thing, which is really scary when someone says, and a member of the government, that this law is not meant for citizens. Every law is intended for citizens and there are no laws intended solely for professional institutions. Therefore, it should be understandable to everyone what is written in some law, and it is completely pointless to defend something that is indefensible in this way, arrogance. Of course it's the law that needs to be passed. Of course, there are many reasons for this to happen, but of course there is a decent law to be passed. As much as the government spends money on professional services and translation services, we could have expected to have at least one good translation, not Croatian, not Afghan, but a Serbian translation of what was translated here. Absolutely nothing bothers the good practice of the EU is applied to us, but let's apply it in such a way that it looks like what needs to be, which means we have well written laws both in essence and in shape.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25732	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25733	I must remind myself that the only reason we're passing all the laws and why we're coming here is for the citizens of Serbia. I never said that, you can hear, this isn't about citizens, it's about something else. It's absolutely a law for the citizens and it's done to help the citizens and to give them security. So that's basically two reasons why and how this bill was put forward. That's what we've been doing, and that's what we're still gonna do. This is a very serious thing to put in for daily-political needs. We will continue to fight for the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25734	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25735	The work of the National Assembly, MPs of the National Assembly and those who are guests in this Assembly, which are representatives of the Government, is that they work for the benefit of the citizens and there is no doubt about it, and that is not our will, nor the will of the Minister, nor the will of the MPs, that is our obligation. In your last report, you explicitly said this law wasn't meant for citizens. Take a stenogram and you'll see. So, if you said that by accident, then I accept your apology, and I hope it wasn't said on purpose. The amendments we have made, me and my colleagues from the parliamentary club and other opposition colleagues, aim to correct the law that is, I repeat, necessary and to bring into shape and content that is appropriate to how it should be used.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25736	Mr. Minister, I'll give you two more minutes to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25737	I am responsible for saying that I did not say that it does not apply to the citizens of Serbia. I said, I repeat, for parts that have foreign words, that for the reasons of projects and what is done, it's not only done in one country, it's done in several countries, that at that moment it's easier for the Agency for Medicinal Products, that it has to do with them, to recognize, to put and to make our patients get to what they need faster and safer. That's what I said, I repeat.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25738	According to the amendment, the word has been issued by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25739	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When we had a discussion in principle, Mr. Minister will remember, I was just talking about those English terms in the law and I said that I was partly against it. Here, this is where I'm partly against it. So, I don't think it's a good idea for the implant to be an implant, because people who are from the profession when they say the implant know what an implant is, an implant, and what Mr. Zivkovic said absolutely needs to be translated. That's what I was saying. So, we were supposed to be more selective in terms of keeping it, and then I said, Serbian, I'm just surprised that all those who are representatives of the government would keep the Serbian language when the Davers propose a declaration, they don't want to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25740	According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25741	Thank you. Well, we heard another senseless excuse, which is that these English expressions should remain because this is applied in many countries. Well? This law applies to Serbia, and as it applies in some other countries, it has nothing to do with what the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is doing, it should have nothing to do with what the Serbian government is doing, or any of the MPs present. It's humanly wrong, and it happens to everyone. Here, I have to admit, I've been wrong a few times in my life, but it can be fixed by taking the profession, the science, the mind, the education, the experience, and then that mistake is corrected. Therefore, I call on you, if not now, if you are now ashamed to admit a mistake, that in the newsroom, when the text goes to the technical directory, you can change these terms and write a nice certificate of free traffic, and of course most Serbian citizens know what "free hall of certification" means, but it is not used in laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25742	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been made by MP Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25743	And yet briefly, since it seems that there is now a controversy on the subject of Serbian language, the purity of the same and so on. Without getting into the details of whether the promoter thinks this is a proposal of profession, science, wit or experience, let each judge how much there is concrete and true. A Serbian question? I don't know if people analyze what they're proposing, do those who support some things go a little deeper into the content of what they support? I'm not going to represent myself as some top language cleaner, but if we're going to talk about the adequate use of Serbian expressions and our language, here it is proposed to use the term subcategories. I don't know if it should be said to be completely linguistically clean? I might call it a sub-category, but do we want to deal with this kind of detail or substance? (Alexandra Jerkov: That is not a Serbian word. If we want details like this, we can, no problem is... Those who are now winning also celebrated for both language and literacy in their amendments and explanations. I hope we don't have to talk about it and those who wait to get a word of it, I hope we don't have to talk about them, but just a few notes from my side before we continue the language story. How much in the spirit of Serbian, as the amendment explains, is the term "and expertise"? How much in the spirit of Serbian is what it says in the explanation “I have no reason to change”? Okay, well, if the promoter doesn't have any reason to change, I don't know why he's proposing at all. How much in the spirit of the Serbian language is the explanation "by viewing it for no purpose at all, we suggest erasing it"? Do they want to tell us in Serbian that they think something without purpose? I don't know why they think or suggest erasing it for no reason. Why would people do anything for nothing? Not to go into further examples. There's a lot of them and they don't exactly go for those who put this stuff on paper. Let us stick to the essence, ladies and gentlemen. A well-intentioned proposal on our part, and we can talk about these things, so to whom it's worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25744	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been given by the People's MP, Alexander Jerkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25745	Thank you. MP, DS has not participated in these language amendments. Our amendments are a completely different nature. It's just, I think this quasilingvist debate should be interrupted. My colleague Orlic here says that instead of subcategories, I guess the Serbian word sub-categories should be spoken. Comrade Orlic, category is not a Serbian word. I don't know what this is about. You said yourself you weren't much of a language cleaner. Please accept your suggestion, which you give to others, so don't go into linguistic discussions. You really don't know about that. We have here two MPs who have been sitting in session for a month as amendments making proposals to place marks in the members of the law where you can't be a place to write Serbian. It says: “This law regulates the conditions for production, and the transport of medical resources. ” I don't know if it's known to colleagues who suggest something like this that there's no point in front of the "and" bounds in accordance with the Serbian spelling. For some reason, they think it's funny to do it. If the government accepted these amendments, it would mean that we would have laws written in a language that is not in accordance with Serbian law. Then fellow Orlic here talks about good copyists, that someone admitted to being a copyist. If some of the SNS admitted to being copyists, I'm afraid neither Dr Stefanovic nor Dr Mali, nor many of your other doctors would ever be doctors of science.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25746	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25747	Thank you. I didn't say for free that every good estimate of whether his theme is worth it or not. I know why I said it, here, you'll hear it. If I wasn't some language cleaner, it still stands, but I'm so uninformed in the rules of language some things I know. For example, I know, and this refers specifically to the professional, scientific and what other contribution exactly to the parliamentary group that has now been addressed. It's not "Communal", it's "the Parliament", and you wrote it, it's not "the ministry responsible for jobs" but either the minister in charge or the ministry in charge. It is not referred to as “fculte” etc. As for good copyists, I was just commenting on those who self-inflicted themselves with that epithet. I said, copyists are and can be, it's not controversial. How good they are, we'll see. If we're talking about diplomas, knowledge and calling anyone, where are the indices? We've already invited some who have courageously introduced themselves here for excellent students, phenomenal students, to bring some of their testimonies, so that we can compare things. Here's where they suggest that probably when my colleague Jesic gets here, he'll have something to brag about. It doesn't matter, let him bring anyone. Something is missing, any testimony about how good someone is, how successful, on the other hand, and he likes to kind of experience himself just like that. We're here for success, grades, the results of what you can't come up with showed. There's something to compare with, if there's anything to compare to the other side. It wouldn't be bad, for example, to see how good and successful Dragan Sutanovac was, how good and successful Sasa Jankovic was, the one who was their lawyer here at the last or the previous session, when we talked about these topics. But something still seems to me that, in addition to trying to be malice, a little bit and enraged, there will never be anything justified to show and say – well, this is who we are, who we know is Nadezhda Petrovic, we who can still do something, and with that end, Mr. Chairman, bring to the National Assembly, without our last sentence being a battle cry – Urosh, endure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25748	Thank you. The word is made by MP Darko Laketić, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25749	Mr. Chairman, respected ministers with associates, first of all, I would at this point put linguistics aside. I would talk about the essence, not only of this amendment, but of many of the things that the proposer should have previously prepared. Namely, what's this about? First of all, it was necessary to examine what is the time period, which is the dynamic of the collection of documentation that only the person, the institution, the institution, the organisation that registers the medical agent that he will need to register the medical agent. In line with this dynamic, with the number of papers, with the use of adequate terms throughout the process, it is necessary for the promoter to know that during this process he must use terms that are universal, I speak universally on the European market and in European countries. Namely, all these English terms we talked about are registered and abbreviations from English and names of individual documents and forms. What was the essence of this bill? To cut the deadlines. We've cut the deadlines on which AliMS fits almost double, somewhere and more. Well, the bottom line is to cut deadlines and make it possible for a normal business work, so that whoever manufactures medical supplies can register and put it on the market as soon as possible if it meets the standards. What do you want, not to register in 30 days, to register for 90, because of administrative obstacles? Well, that's enough bureaucracy, gentlemen. Well, why didn't you change that when you were in power, but you always have an ex-post mind and you're suggesting something at the stage, unfortunately, you can't decide? And you won't be able to, remember.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25750	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25751	I agree that it is important to take care of our language, our words, and there is no dilemma. I think we all agree on that, and we'll keep doing that in the future. You have one more important thing, which is that we have to take care of patients, people who need help and who literally mean a lot every day. They don't care about this debate about language or anything. They fight for one thing, they fight for their health. We'll keep them as our priority. That's one thing. And keep in mind the other thing, we're neither like a country anyone who can work alone, someone who has so many funds, so much money that it works itself. Most of the time, we have to be part of the system. We have defined ourselves for the EU. Then we must be part of that system. It's the best and fastest way to help our people. Please, just keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25752	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Markovic, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25753	Thank you. Dear Ministers, representatives of the ministry, we have submitted this amendment because we felt that the provision might be more understandable in the spirit of the Serbian language if it is said: "from the appropriate" replacement with the words "by the appropriate". However, by adopting and not adopting this amendment, it would not essentially change the meaning of the provision. This amendment has not been accepted. I just have to say that we respect the government's opinion, we agree with the government's opinion. I will take the opportunity to point out something that I also pointed out in the principle debate, which is that the minister and the ministry he runs, absolutely their proposals have the support of SNS MPs and in the debate in particular we will respect the government's opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25754	Thank you. National MPs Milorad Mircic, Zoran Krasic, Ruzica Nikolic and Miljan Damjanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The word has the People's MP Ruzica Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25755	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 2. The bill to say in point 10: "in a home environment" replaces the words "in extracurricular conditions". We have made an amendment because it is not accurate if it is stated that a medical agent can be used in a home environment, unless it is used in a hospital or in a health home, because it is a medical device that can be used anywhere outside of a health facility. It is obvious that the bill is an unfortunate translation from English to Croatian, then in Serbian, and that this structure is not in the spirit of Serbian, and it gets a completely different meaning, which is that a particular medical tool a patient can use if not in hospital, then only at home and nowhere else. When it comes to words and translation, I would remind you of Stefan's legacy of no tongue, which you should always keep in mind. So I quote: “Keep an eye on my child, my tongue as the earth. The word can be lost as a city, as a land, as a soul, and what has the people lost their language? Do not take someone else's word into your mouth. If you take someone else's word, you know you didn't win it, but you made a difference. Lands and states are conquered not only by swords, but also by languages. Know that the enemy has conquered you as much as he has conquered you and subdued how many words he has wasted and put forth his own. A people who lose their words cease to be a people. “
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25756	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been made by the People's MP Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25757	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, I don't think the amendment should be accepted, because, if you read correctly, a means of self-testing. So when we do self-testing, if we measure glycaemia, we do it on home terms, we don't work on the street. So, the outpatient environment can be anything else – the hotel, etc. Read carefully what it says – self-testing means. Therefore, you must also respect some hygiene standards when doing so. He's referring to patients. If he doesn't run tests under hospital conditions, then he can work, so, under home conditions. Think a little bit of patients thinking. Thank you for your literature, but this is still about patients and medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25758	According to the amendment, the People's MP, the Prophet of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25759	Of course, the amendment of the SRS should be accepted, because our amendments are meaningful and this is not literary work, but a reminder of the obligation of every MP, including the MPs of the parliamentary majority. The impossible solution is provided by law, for example, for the infusion to be given only in hospital conditions or in home conditions. If that is the case, here are the questions: How did Nikolic strike hunger for two and a half hours after the Styrofoam, then how was the infusion given to him in the National Assembly? Is this his house? It's not. Is this a hospital? It's not. And it's not the only case. What do you do with patients in prison, in custody, who don't go to a prison hospital, but they have to come in there to get their blood out, so they don't have to drive them to a prison hospital? So, the proposed legal solution is not good, it is not complete and, Minister, it is still not too late to accept the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25760	Thank you. According to the amendment, the word has been made by the People's MP Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25761	I just have to get to the prison story. So, in our prison units, there are hospitals where medical activities are being performed, and if you didn't know that, take one tour and go see what it looks like. I come from Kruševec, where we have a nursing home and there's a juvenile-faced infirmary and there's... I'd like to ask you, I've listened very carefully. So there are adequate conditions with adequate healthcare professionals that are no different from hospital conditions at all. So you can't take that as an argument. And this thing about the assembly, it means home terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25762	Thank you. Right on the line, The Witch of Radeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25763	Neither I nor my colleague Rose understood how it was required in our amendment, but this earlier debate was also offensive. So, what I know and what I don't know, that colleague can't judge. Whether I'm going to prisons etc., I'm going around everything the MP needs to go around and I know perfectly how everything works in Serbia, so, among other things, I'm going to the prison facility. I'm asking a colleague who's, like, talking about hospital conditions in prisons, are they going to, say, let's say, let's say that the Legion or Zvezdan Jovanovic, with so much security, are they going to take their blood or is there someone on the spot to take their blood? Of course they'll do something else, because I don't know what kind of security, helicopter, and I don't know what kind of transportation they're taking to somewhere else, like they usually do. The essence of this amendment, obviously here it's only important that someone answer the word and say something, and the meaning of this amendment was to the language of regularity, but the story went a little bit wider. We don't mind, but it's important that whoever comments on the amendment first declare whether what was proposed by the amendment is okay or not and, if not, why not. To spread the story, we always have, we Serbian radicals advocate that the MP should not be limited on the subject or on time, that the MP from this place can say everything he thinks he should say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25764	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Do you want a replica? A Vesna Rakonjac: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25765	Only if it comes to language terminology, if we do so, would I understand the remark that we put in "home" conditions or "domestic" conditions, but we put "in home terms". It's a real Serbian term, if it's just a language. If this is about other matters, I would once again ask that we provide the right information, to refer to the Department of Criminal Sanctions of the Ministry of Justice to give the Members of Parliament information about what it has been like in our prisons since 2012 and what the procedures are when the proteges of these institutions are concerned, especially as regards health. So let's get rid of this dilemma and close this discussion once and for all. If it's language, it's like this. If it's something else and we're wasting time, then we really don't have time to waste, we have to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25766	Natasa Jovanovic's MP, according to the amendment, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25767	So this is about one language alignment and inaccuracy. I believe that unlike the previous speaker, Mrs. Rakonjac, the proposer understood it, but he gave up on correcting it in the way co-worker Ruzica Nikolic suggested, which is probably the kind of ear thing when she reads it, because according to the profession, she is a defecologist. It was really necessary, Mr. Minister, for you to write this law in the spirit of Serbian. I just heard some Ustasha talk and a word that should not be heard in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, especially because Croats do not have their own speech. They stole it from the Serbs and you could read it in a science section of professor. A shekel. On the other hand, it is very important to note that in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism, the laws in Serbia were never agreed when it came to these linguistic doubts with another country, except between the two wars, when in Serbia it was radical rule, possibly with the Russian language, because many of the solutions from the Tsar Russia took place until 1917, as a state. We believe that in the future, in the period when the radical government is back in Serbia, we will thus safeguard and cultivate our language and write laws so that they are precise and clear. So, this is not about that, because it's just someone who, not to say, is limited in this way able to observe, whether it's a medical tool used in the house or, as Mrs Radeta stated, in prison or some other places, precisely because of this "house", as a house, is not the term "vanbolical conditions", as Mrs Ruzica Nikolic suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25768	Thank you, colleague Jovanovic. The National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura, LJupka Mihajlovska, together submitted the title above Articles 3 and 3 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Here are colleagues Branka Stamenković.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25769	Thank you. Here, this amendment is already in Article 3. We ask that the English term "free hall of certification" be deleted, and the bill promoter rejected it. I would like to refer to what Dr Vesovic said when it comes to the difference between professional and foreign expressions. So, "invitability" is a professional term and as such is quite acceptable, as is the term "invitro". But foreign words and foreign expressions that have adequate Serbian words, as in this case there are adequate Serbian words, should not stand in a foreign language, but should be translated when mentioned in the law. Once again, I stress, not only says Branka Stamenkovic, it is said by the unique methodological rules for making the rules that we as MPs are, but also by all others who propose laws when they are proposed, obliged to follow. Not because it's someone's whim now, but because there must be some rules that make our laws even, that our writing language is even. By ignoring these rules, you're just sending a message of arrogance, which is not like the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25770	Thank you. The word is Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25771	I think the amendment should be rejected, because, come on, let's go back to Article 2 one more time. He says - the terms used in the law, and point 21 says, "free halls of certification". So, the certificate in free trade and says – it's a document that proves that the medical agent is on the market in the country of the manufacturer. So, when we get a document like this at the border crossing, where it says "free halls of certification" we need to ask the manufacturer to translate it into Serbian. Read it carefully, this is just a list of terms used in the law, please. And don't take up any more of our time on this stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25772	Thank you. National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 3rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25773	There are two errors in Article 3. Point 15 and point 17. Point 15 is this unfortunate "free hall", and it is essentially more important to point 17, where we ask that it be deleted. Because this point defines that I quote the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of Serbia – it provides expert advice on the request of legal and natural persons in relation to the translation of the instructions for the use and marking of medical means, and two classifications of medical means in the class and category of medical means. The reason for erasing is that in the EU directives, which are being called upon by the legislator, they do not cover anywhere in these recommendations that the Agency should do this job. On the other hand, if the Serbian Medicines Agency were to do this job, it would be in conflict of interest. So this is proof that these European laws, when they are widely interpreted by Serbian advances, are being mistranslated, senseless and corrupt-provided. It is a methodology for the ruling and writing of the ruling party's laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25774	Thank you. The word is Secretary Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25775	The results of the government and the ministry are well-known, and you can interpret everything else in your own way and you can only be wrong that you haven't done it before.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25776	Thank you, Minister. Right on the line, Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25777	That's when Serbian advances are mentioned. What did we hear? Some proof of the methodology of government and writing, right? As far as writing methodology is concerned, and to deal with it, excellent. What is in that Serbian language, which seems to have to be translated into Serbian again, when such phenomenal suggestions are obtained? What is true in the translation “to which the legislator relys ”? What does that mean in Serbian, what does it rely on? An explanation, an amendment, a proposal? What does this mean? What does medical means if we're going to talk about expertise, knowledge and scientific contribution? We mentioned here and some copyists, and here we have good examples of copyists. "Irrelevant," which is also probably in the spirit of Serbian language, I don't know what it means, but I see that the proposer himself copied it from the amendment to the amendment, from an explanation to an explanation. We have "indebt" on Article 27, "indebt" on Article 28. It is also accompanied by a ‘mariere’ on Article 51, etc. So much for that expertise and writing methodology. As for the methodology of governance, to compare all the great and wonderful things, as was the time of the yellow company and all its subvariants. With these good things happening today, right in the vault we're discussing, with what the minister here explained, that it happened, that it was going to happen, and that it will have no doubts about it, with the equipment, with the acquisition of the accelerator, with the purchase of cyber and gamma knives, with numerous health checks, with the improvement of infrastructure, right in health care, with the raising of complete centres where there were bare meadows, so we don't mind that and management methodologies, ageing methodologies, but also care methodologies for our own people that we have today on one side of this hall, we compare. Again, to whom it pays, let us call to compare.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25778	Thank you. Comrade Zivkovic, you have no right to a replica. You only have the answer to your remarks and suggestions that you made during your presentation on the amendment. (Zoran Zivkovic: I want to talk about the amendment. That's fine, of course. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25779	Thank you. Otherwise, I didn't ask for a replica of the previous speaker, since it doesn't deserve any attention. It's very interesting what it's gonna be, tomorrow, tomorrow it's gonna be, tomorrow it's gonna be. If something had been good in some previous period, it was said by your president, who said he was going to take "Sablja" into his own hands, and we know that this was already used at a time when it was to be used. It had excellent results, so I would like that "Sabbe" to happen again, even if you held it in your hands, but be careful...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25780	My colleague Zivkovic, it really has nothing to do with the amendment, what you're saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25781	It doesn't matter what he said, so you... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25782	I have to interrupt. I gave you my word that you're speaking according to the amendment. The word is Dr. Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25783	I'd just like to ask you, if possible, the president isn't here. When it comes, they'll answer, it's very serious stuff here. Our citizens are not waiting for us to fight here, but to solve the problems that depend on them their health and their life. Political bickering, "sabre" and other things, I don't think it's time or place right now. I don't think it's right to talk, because a man isn't here right now and there's no topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25784	Thank you, Minister. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25785	I thank the chairman. A member of 107 has been injured who regulates the dignity of the work of the National Assembly. I am surprised that you have not responded to what the previous speaker spoke about, the applicant of the amendment that brought into the context of the President of the Republic with the "sable" but with the "sabre" he carried out in 2003, unfortunately of all Serbian citizens and gave himself the right to mention the context and the "Sabre" which were something positive at that time, forgetting that at that time a large number of Serbian citizens, more than 10,000, were arrested, unfounded, in terror, which, while at the time of the accident of all citizens, was the prime minister of this country, I repeat, of the accident, so while he was conducting terror and terror, where thousands of citizens were unfounded. So the question should be asked, how processed are those persons who were arrested in "Sablja" and how many countries later had to allocate money for the compensation of all these people. Today, he is trying to bring into the context of the President of the Republic, who has mentioned "Sablja" in a figurative sense, but has clearly been fenced by this and such "Sablje". You should have warned him at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25786	Thank you, colleague Markovic. As you could see, that's exactly why I turned off the microphone for my colleague, Zivkovic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. Branka Stamenković, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25787	Thank you. Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 103 paragraph 8. A colleague Markovic reported after the injury of the Rules of Procedure, and he entered the replica, and you allowed him, for my unknown reason, instead of interrupting him. Now that you've allowed him to do so and you haven't interrupted him, it would be at least two minutes' turn to take down a parliamentary group for punishment or to vote otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25788	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. I took his exposure as an explanation in which I hurt the Rules of Procedure. His opinion was that I didn't respond adequately, so I figured that out from that point of view. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? Yeah. Thank you. Zoran Zivkovic, by amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25789	Just to warn the chairman and some colleagues who had just been angry, "Sabbe" is not a medical tool, it has another purpose... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25790	My colleague Zivkovic, you cannot speak, is not the subject of "Sabela". Please, I'm trying to be tolerable and correct and the minister is in a very good mood to discuss the subject in an argument, but it's obviously not possible with you today. Members of the 3rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25791	Dear Vice President, this Article 3 speaks of the Agency and its responsibilities. I must say, this medical law is in line with EU regulations. How important this is for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will state one piece of information at a time when we were not fortunate to agree, and this is a cytostatic affair, when bought during the former market cytostatic regime, it was known in advance how much money could be spent on cytostatics, and then patients to be given medication were sought. Imagine how poisoned the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are. I only mention this information that Dr Dragana Jovanovic left their commission to obtain cytostatics. During their regime, it was bought for 24m euros in cytostatics that year, but without tendering and without public advertising. We have heard today who are MPs and what political options are against this law. We also heard that against this law those MPs whose boss was against, otherwise many laws, were having affairs, bankruptcy affairs. They want affairs, bankruptcy affairs in health care. It is best not to pass the law, for it will make the king of bankruptcy even better, etc. So, during the regime, 50 million were taken into account by bankruptcy, and probably at the expense of bankruptcy in medical institutions would take a certain amount of money. Therefore, all in all, I think the law is good and since the government thinks this member of the law is good, and in some ways I wanted to strengthen the government's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25792	Thank you, Professor. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25793	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I respect that my fellow farmer protects the Serbian language. He is, in effect, known as a longtime Serb language fighter. In his youth, and according to the testimony of members of his party...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25794	My colleague Rističević, please discuss the subject and the amendment. Now that we're on our way, let's continue the debate in that direction, the direction, the good faith and the argument. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25795	My colleague Marinkovic, it's easy to interrupt me, but I'm talking about what they were talking about, or I wasn't in this session or you weren't listening very well. But I say hello, he's famous for kicking people off the train just because they spoke English. For this reason, he wants to take out English words from this member, and this member is engaged in the registration of medical resources. (National MP Zoran Krasic throws out of place. Mr. Krassic, don't make a fuss. You don't do it when these representatives of the party of the former regime say, don't do it when the president of your party says it, do it when I say it, chairing it, I put up with it. You cannot interfere with me, I belong to those wisest MPs who, by their observation, draw conclusions, etc., and that kind of MP is difficult to interfere with. So, I'm talking about the medical resources that they've been using and I don't want those medical supplies in the registration to be found. Namely, the House of Health in Indjija is in debt of 300 million dinars, the minister certainly knows, because of the medical means of the next type, says, this is the date of October 6, 2015, says – medical means, code 01601, Vienna steak 60, 52,200, carajorian steak, I will continue following the next amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25796	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The word is "Verica Radet" after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25797	Thank you. This is one of the amendments, actually through this amendment I'm going to address the public first. These are amendments that are not actually amendments, Article 3 has four positions, the first position has 18 points. Here we have one change, where already in the first position and at the first point, I guess to get off the agenda, writes – the agency registers medical resources, changes and additions, etc. It's completely irregular here after the change was put on. So, the point is that MPs of the parliamentary majority do not really want amendments and bill proposals to be discussed here. This is a kind of demeaning of both the minister and the government. Thanks to these amendments that are not, the MPs today will not be again, or tomorrow, but as long as we work on these amendments, they will not be able to mention and explain every amendment that has been submitted with the intention of making a difference in the law. Is what we want to change, whether it's in line with what the ministry and the government can accept or can't, is a matter of government, or Minister Loncar, but it's very important that he hears the explanation of every amendment so that he can plead eventually on it. It is also important for Serbian citizens to know, a colleague here earlier said, when she spoke about the Ruzica Nikolic amendment, that these language corrections through the amendments were only a mere waste of time, and we should work here. So there's no wasting of time, I don't know what term to use, in a way like this through these amendments. So, a whole member who has two sides is prescribed, inserted somewhere stuck, anywhere, and in that comma is different from the bill. I'm not saying this either to cause replicas or to have any effect on my colleagues who wrote these amendments. Just let them continue, let them explain, it's their right, the Rules of Procedure allows it and we have nothing against it, but we want the citizens of Serbia to know, any of you... Here you are, Mr. Marinkovic, every other day in the morning program on one television with a national frequency, and you boast how much law is passed here, as far as it is done, as the opposition endures meaningless amendments, etc. I listened to you personally. So, the opposition, I am talking first of all about the SRS, about our MPs, every amendment we have is meaningful, every amendment we have is in line with the policy and attitudes of the SRS, and we want every amendment to explain the Minister as a representative of the Government and we expect him to plead positively or negatively on that amendment. Citizens should know, when we are not today or tomorrow, we are able to talk about every amendment, that it is because you from the current assembly of the majority use the nakaradan and the non-democratic Rules of Procedure of those before you, the Rules of Procedure who have criticised us, but now it is time for you to apply it, so it is good for you. Then you say to them: This is your Rules of Procedure; why do you make remarks? The Rules of Procedure are, in fact, that MPs can't do their jobs and that's my point in this intervention. They repeat only one sentence because of Minister Loncar, that this is how I wanted to protect both the Ministry and the Government from the inconclusion of some MPs. So, Minister, these amendments, where you're just stuck in the middle of a sentence, they only serve to spend time, because we have limited time when it comes to talking and discussing amendments and you, unfortunately, won't be able to plead on every amendment, and I believe that you would do it, why not. That doesn't mean you have to accept it, if you don't accept it, say why not, and if you accept it, say why. So, my address was primarily to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to know what kind of relationship the MPs have in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25798	Thank you, colleague Radeta. Although you know that I cannot use the right to reply now, of course, but I must say and responsibly say that I have never expressed myself negatively about any MP from the SRS, even moreover, I highly appreciate this dedicated work, although, of course, I disagree with ideas and politics. Thank you. The word has been given by MP Djordje Vukadinovic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25799	Just a short and completely on the line of what we were just talking about. So, also for the public, but I am addressing both the chairman and I appeal to all my colleagues that they should break up with practice, regardless of whether there is a business possibility or not, but at least they should publicly state what this is about and I really agree with what Radeta's colleague has just said. That's what I've been paying attention to, too. So, absolutely pointless amendments are being submitted. Of course, from the point of view of the government or the law enforcement officer, he can say that various amendments are unacceptable and that they do not fit into the concept, but simply citizens should know, and I don't know how much they know, that hundreds of amendments that have only one comma or one quote within them are submitted, and otherwise, the text of the amendment is prescribed, and then the time for discussion is taken in this way and a serious message is sent about the meaninglessness of this debate and the Assembly and many amendments, many discussions and proposals don't come at all on the agenda, they simply don't arrive at the intended time to be considered. So it's not just about citizens, it's about the appeal and leadership of the Assembly and those from the committees who are appointing these amendments, that we start a little bit more honestly, not restrictively, but that simply something that's obvious obstruction, with the obvious intention of submitting the amendment just to get time to be able to replicate or match something that one of the representatives of the opposition said. I think they're colleagues from the Dvora today, but they'll say it better, they did something like that, but they did it as a show exercise, as a demonstration of how it shouldn't be done, and I'm a big supporter of it. So let's not do it that way, whether there's a business possibility or not, spend time on citizens and money. We could end this debate, probably today, if there were no such practice that is being practiced, and it only serves to give some colleagues from the ruling majority the opportunity to match whatever someone in the opposition says, and therefore, after each opposition amendment, there goes the proposal of a group or a few colleagues. It is not good and it only hurts us more and sends a bad picture of the congregation and the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25800	Thank you. The word is Dragan Vesovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25801	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since I am an authorised promoter, and the Serbian Movement of the Dvori is mentioned, I am using the right to replication. I am glad that counterpart Vukadinovic and a colleague from the Serbian Radical Party stood at the point of view of what the Serbian Movement Dvora said at the beginning of this session. I really think there are places in some discussions of political bickering, political conflict, but when we talk about laws that are deeply related to professions like these laws, I think we've had a chance to say in the plural of what we wanted, I think we have opportunities to discuss in detail to interpret something else that we don't understand, and I think the minister is ready to give us further clarifications. And again I repeat that the amendments, which are this way, are withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25802	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. The word is Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25803	By amendment. Let me look back at this last draft of the score, but it's not the first, it's a total of 138. Just to sum up what my colleagues were talking about, starting with my colleague Radeta, through colleagues Vukadinovic and Dr Vesovic. An MP who has submitted a series of amendments to which the only change in a member of the law is the addition of a score, and in a place where it is not supposed to be a decimal, this morning it justified Serbian citizens' desire to support the government's proposal. I must say that I am personally saddened that the government has no arguments that it can defend in this House the bill of its laws, but it must instead be done by an MP with a series of false amendments with a comma, which has been placed in a completely wrong place. I'm sorry that Parliamentism here is understood in one completely wrong and incendiary way. It seems to me that neither the government nor the ruling coalition is clear one simple fact – the opposition is important. The opposition's criticism is important, not because it now meets the opposition's will, but because in that dynamic exchange of arguments, the opposition criticises, the authorities defends their proposals with arguments, and citizens get it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25804	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. The word has Vladimir Orlic. Right to the replica? No, I don't. ) According to the amendment, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25805	Ten seconds of it all, just in the spirit of this debate, which, I must admit, ennobles. Since it's been said to be sad, what can be saddened, but you know what's the saddest thing? When you don't even know your country's name. Well, of those who know everything, I can tell, one thing they should know they don't know, they don't know what their country's name is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25806	Thank you. The word is Daniel Stojadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25807	Thank you, Chairman. I simply need on behalf of the SPS and these MP groups to respond and in some ways interrupt or ask for an end to this debate. We also talked about the previous days that this Medical Devices Act had its own importance, and here we heard everything from Styrofoam to "Sablje". I would ask that we go back to the topic because obviously there can't be any regrets that there's only a ruling coalition, and I think the same archaics apply the opposition, and this debate has turned into a linguistic debate, which I think is absolutely neither the place nor the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25808	Thank you, colleague. The word is Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25809	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would agree with my colleague, for more than 95 minutes we have been talking about everything except the subject of this law, a law that is important to our citizens. When we spoke on behalf of the Democratic Party MPs' club last week, I expressed my views that it is important that such a law be applied because it improves the quality and safety of medical resources and medicines themselves in our country. This law makes practical use of some rules of play that rule and apply in the civilised European community of the people. It is important that we return to the purpose of today's session, not to discuss for 95 minutes some things that I personally consider not to be the subject of today's session, and it is up to you as chairman to ensure that we continue on the amendments to very important members of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25810	Thank you, Dr. Milisavlevich. I completely agree with you. Thanks for the suggestion. On behalf of the 4th amendment, MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted. Does anyone want a word? The word is Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25811	Thank you. Amendment to Article 4. With this amendment, we tried to bring this article's text back into line with the unique methodological rules for making regulations, because not only when it comes to this member, but through literally the whole law, the bill promoter assigned the names to the members as if they were sections, not members. I've really tried to clean it up consistently from the whole law, to fully comply with these unique methodological rules that I repeat are not for decorations, but for the laws that we're making to be even, and not for every village. Unfortunately, the legislator had no ear for it, no single amendment had accepted. I'm sorry about the citizens of Serbia for saying so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25812	Thank you. The word is Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25813	Thank you. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow MPs, I would not agree with the submitted amendment of the previous colleague she spoke of. Namely, why? So, in addition to some of her personal regrets about the amendments submitted by some of the ruling coalition counterparts, there is no other explanation, and there is no proposal in the very explanation of this amendment, which is simply "explicate", there is no proposal. So, never before, for the two years we've been together in the Serbian Parliament, I've never heard of a clever proposal from a fellow MP who proposes this amendment, so this time, except for the space for some media display and accusing us from the ruling coalition that we're not doing well, we didn't know anything else. The fact that those on Twitter are fighting and trying to mislead Serbia by having some support, without us doing anything here, shows it in every election and the ever lower percentage they win, so this time on some of the following, I don't think they're even going to be here anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25814	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 4th amendment. (Branka Stamenkovic: I responded after the amendment. I didn't see, I'm sorry, please. According to the amendment, the word is Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25815	I'll take it for a while, since the previous speaker gave the wrong information. In fact, she argued that my amendment reads as "expect" and that there is no explanation. That's not true. My amendment says "number 2 in the name of Article 4 is deleted", and the explanation exists, you just need to turn, fellow Members, paper, and then you will see an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25816	Thank you. Dragana Barisic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25817	You know how, I look at every amendment well, and I don't need to turn around, and it says right with me. But a colleague should learn that elections are not won on Twitter and lies, but only by results. It is the SNS in the election that shows that the results reach not only 56%, but also beyond that, and next time probably 80%, since with this opposition, Serbian citizens see who can lead this country, which is only SNS and Mr Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25818	Thank you. By amendment, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25819	I would refer to this debate on the "Twitter" amendment by saying this - we need free textbooks for all children in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25820	We're closing a circle of replicas and going to the next amendment. (Krto Janjušević: Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure? I can't give you any business. You didn't raise your hand in time. I can't, really. I didn't see you. Here, Mr. Risticevic, for the fourth time, stands up to give him my word on the amendment. Here you go, colleague Rističević. Call me next time just in time, pick up the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25821	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, knowledge and health are never enough. So when someone calls their country "the turnip of the Republic of Serbia", and here they lecture me on grammatical errors, then it speaks of the quality of the person who resents me on the amendments submitted. Article 4 refers to the Agency, how medicines are handled, etc. How did they handle the drugs and leave 300 million dinars in debt? The drugs didn't pay because they thought the cure was a Vienna steak – 870 dinars, code 1601, a weird drug, a Karajord steak, everything happens on October 6th, another 60 pieces, code 602, filled with hangers, code 603. Look, this is a health account in India. Some weird drugs. The patients didn't get them. The patients got some stew like that, but these are the party officials of the former regime. It says: roasted chicken, serving, code 604, burger – code 605, all 870 dinars, twice the price, like that one of Ken's buns costing 150 dinars, nut strudels, macaques, coke, Rosa water, crepits, etc. These were medical supplies that they paid for while patients were dying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25822	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 4th amendment. The word has Ivan Kostic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25823	Dear People's MPs, citizens of Serbia, I'm glad we had to hear such a high-minded discussion per amendment. On the subject of some previous speakers who said that there were copyists on the other side, here, I would say here in the light of the Law and read a few sentences that read like this. In fact, EU regulations, as well as EU Member States in the field of medical means for veterinary and human medicine, are regulated by separate regulations. Article 3 also takes into account EU rules as well as the practice of EU member states, the separation of regulations governing medical resources from regulations governing medicinal products has been carried out. So, according to what we see here, the biggest copyists are proposing, and that's the government of the Republic of Serbia. This is not the first time that the laws we adopt in the National Assembly are actually prescribed from the EU, so there is no need for anyone to honor the MPs of the opposition, when you see here in action who is actually a copyist.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25824	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25825	Thank you very much. A few seconds again, it won't take any more. Thank you to those who called themselves copyists today, so there's no confusion about who did it. They said for themselves that they were cheating. Well done for a confession. Is it easier in their soul, I don't know. Thank you for reminding us of this aspect of the EU and good standards regarding this law. I expect that for these very reasons, precisely they support the law, because last or preceding session, was the amendment of these people where they wrote themselves in their own explanation – we propose this because it is a good EU standard. If that's what they're handling, they'll be consistent, and they'll support this law and everyone else for the same reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25826	The 4th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Djordje Vukadinovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25827	This amendment belongs to these technical ones, and I'm really sorry that it hasn't been adopted, it wouldn't spoil anything or change the intentions, but I'm just drawing attention to a carelessness with which it's in law, at least some of the places it's written in law. This article says, believe it or not, it is now not some subtle language game, to be arranged by civil servants. Be careful – the civil servants are in charge. As far as I know, gardens, hair, books can be arranged. If civil servants were to be arranged, they would actually be said, and that is our proposal to put it on, and it really wouldn't hurt, to be arranged – the rights and duties of civil servants. So, as is basically said and as is the formulation used in the first term. This is an example of a good amendment that does nothing harm, and at the same time an indicator of how a little more attention should be paid to what is placed on paper, not just counting on the voting machine. As for EU practices, it's good somewhere, bad. I don't think, like my colleagues, that everything should be rejected, which comes from Europe, but not everything should be taken over or copied blindly and apriorily. That's what it's all about. On the other hand, when it comes to this law, I said, and counterpart Sanda Raskovic said at the beginning of this debate that we will vote for this law, we have reserves according to the second, and the remaining third concerning loans and new borrowing, which we are against. So that's about it. We have nothing against the law, it could have been a better little, a cleaner version of the text could have come here to the Assembly. I urge the Ministry to take a little more care of that. I especially draw attention to what was said, not to waste unnecessary time, and in that sense I will give up some future, future amendments concerning this same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25828	The word is Dragan Vesovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25829	Thank you, Chairman. I really don't think it's too late for Mr. Minister and representatives of the ministry, what is absolutely meaningful, counterpart Vukadinovic suggested here on the spot, to be corrected and to adopt the amendment. So, as a member of the Health and Family Committee, I was present when the Secretary of State gave reasons that the amendments were accepted, which the amendments were not accepted. All amendments that have been accepted have mostly been accepted technical corrections, as said. I think this is also a technical correction, and if you don't show good faith, Mr. Minister, and I think there's absolutely a reason for it in this article, there will be bitter taste in the mouth of the opposition and the fact that all the proposed amendments are accepted by the position. That's how it was. I'm a member and I'm a witness on the board. So read carefully again what your colleague suggested and I think this is absolutely logical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25830	Thank you, Dr. President. Vesovic. Members of the 5th and 5th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 5th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25831	Dear Vice President, this article discusses how the agency chooses advisory bodies and who can be a member of those bodies. It must be, not only excellent experts as it stands in the field of medical resources, but also moral people as doctors that we often do not have a case. If they're not safe and responsible and moral, we'll have some affairs like we did during the party of the former regime. I have to say that health care was at the time the most expensive and the main mobster, which shows the following information, relating to medical means, that the affair happened, well known to you and the citizens, so-called. the ‘flu vaccine’ affair. In the summer of 2009, the former regime acquired 855,000 doses of vaccines, and the rest of the three million former regimes ordered, it cancelled, though it was paid. The affair is well known and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia saw "turn the sleeve" when former state president Boris Tadic turned his sleeve, but the campaign cost 11.6m euros. I think he's got good pockets for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. All in all, this agency needs it. Since the Government of the Republic of Serbia considers that this amendment cannot improve the text, I support this law. Members of the People who criticise us who are proposing amendments, I recommend that they take a good look at and study the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because a National MP who has been "maltrating" us all day, has asked 15 times in this assembly a parliamentary question – one that is not being asked by the authority. It is not just her, but most of the MPs from the opposition whose mandate is for the first time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25832	Thank you, colleague Atlagic. The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25833	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, this is my second announcement in the morning session. In my first report, I asked that we stick to the agenda theme, and that's the Law that regulates medical resources. I have now appeared as an authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group, following the presentation of Professor Atlagic and mentioning the party of the former regime and major embezzlements in the health sector. I want to say, and I have repeatedly repeated that DS had never held a health resort, that I was sorry that she did not hold the health portfolio, which she gave to coalition partners to settle political arrangements at the time, but I want to say that I was publicly looking for, while I was chairman of the Health Committee, to examine all the affairs that relate to the affairs in the health sector, and something that you didn't add foreign donations, investments that came in 2000 to this day to examine, the EU, American foundations and money that entered through medical funds and financial resources, where they ended, because I also voiced my suspicion that they had ended in the pockets of some private clinics, doctors working in private clinics. What interests Serbian citizens the most is to solve these affairs, to indicate what was going on or what was going on, that it must be sanctioned, and what is more important for the citizens is to return that money to the citizens, the health sector. The individuals were boastful, and that is true. What's sad is that these individuals weren't responsible for their crimes. That's why, as MPs, we don't have a division around it and we don't transfer each other's ball. So there was corruption in the health sector that individuals abused, and they have to get a conviction from the state, so there is no division of the former regime or party regime. I don't see any division. I'm asking you to go back to the agenda again and that's this medical law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25834	Thank you, Dr. Milisavlevich. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25835	Thank you. It's not true what his colleague claimed. Now, like, the party to the former regime had nothing to do with health care. What I've been reading, I can read all day. That was a six-account. Ten. The home of health in India was run by a party of the former regime, whose name I won't even mention, doesn't deserve to mention it, they did this. The bill was 369,000, after three weeks, they weren't buying drugs, they were moving money for drugs for lunches. Then you know the damage to the patient. Now, like, we weren't wondering. That's not true. 369.180 again. I don't know why people eat the same thing all the time, same thing: Vienna, carats, stuffed, baked burgers, strudels, strudels, cars, boys, dew, creamy. Same thing, here. Same 369.180 dinars. Almost identical account, just recharged three weeks later. Number two. In the province, Dragan Raskovic, Lucic, Jesic's godfather, who are these people? One hundred and eight public procurements without a financial plan and a public procurement plan worth 2,000,000. So, direct footage of the party's former regime. I welcome what they want to say about all these robberies, but they can't say they're not involved. Bojan Pajtic was their party chief, and these were his people. His wife worked at the Emergency Center, which instead cost 40,000,000 instead of 15,000,000. When they're spraying ashes on their heads, it's worth saying.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25836	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25837	Very short, given that I do not have that information that Mr. Risticevic is referring to. What I know, and I think that Serbian citizens know, the House of Health in Indjia has been named in two terms the best health home in Serbia according to European standards and by the European Commission in Serbia. I officially have that information, and that information should serve you in India. For this other information, what anybody ate, I really don't know.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25838	Thank you. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. The word is Dr Dragan Vesovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25839	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So the amendment to Article 5. Article 5 is a member of the Agency's advisory bodies. With all my desire and will to understand what the agency's advisory bodies have to do with the vaccination, with the burgers, with the kebabs, with 369.000 bills, with Bojan Pajtic, with 11.6m euros, we just thought we should break this story and that all those who have submitted these amendments for the reason why they submitted him to the same withdrawal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25840	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Dubravko Bojic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. The word has Dubravko Bojic. Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25841	Thank you. We have submitted an amendment to Article 5 of this proposal on medical resources. First of all, I would like to express our principle of dissent with this proponent practice - unifying the debate. There's been a lot of celebrations these past few days, a lot of praises, words that sound nice and don't mean much. We've intervened with the amendment to article 5 of this bill. I will read this article: “The Agency, with the previous consent of the Minister, educates the advisory body, in the following text – to the Commission, to give an opinion under this law, etc. “ We asked for an amendment to delete the words “with the prior consent of the minister. ” If you have already established the Agency, if you have given it legal personality status, if you have designated responsibilities and responsibilities, you have listed as much as 17 of these responsibilities there, but you have not failed to put under 18 jurisdiction – it also raises other questions in accordance with the law. I guess if the law is passed he has to be clear, specific, specific. Why this indeterminateness? We're here earlier, I don't want to return the subject to the previous debate, but as a linguist, I have to intervene in that part of the linguistic debate on language. Our greatest linguist, Professor. Aleksandar Belic, speaking of the language as living matter, which is constantly developing, enriching, accepting loans and foreigners from other languages, nevertheless, in order to preserve language color and language wealth, felt that words of foreign origin should only be used exceptionally, only when necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25842	Thank you very much, Professor Boyich. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Sreto Peric, Nikola Savic and Aleksandra Belačić. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25843	Mr. Marinkovic, I'm going to expand this subject a little bit and use what time I have as an authorised representative of the SRS. Since someone who monitors this transmission may be mistaken not to know what's on the agenda. It's on the agenda of the Medical Devices Act. You know, they're free of a doctor's higher education, unless he has instruments that can determine adequate diagnosis, and if he can't treat it. As a rule, medicines are treated, but they are very important and medical, because sometimes they are so connected to drugs, it's almost impossible to make a difference, and other medical resources are some goods and some instruments that help doctors, medical staff, and certainly help the patient, who is provided with some protection. In time, standards for medical means developed, as drug standards developed. Who worked on those standards? They worked, first of all, doctors and medical staff, because they were able to determine the advantages and disadvantages of existing assets, flaws and advantages in terms of whether it was sterile, whether it was good for doctors and medical staff, how it behaves, how it affects the patient, how it affects the whole process, diagnosis and treatment. These standards were developed by those who began to produce these medical resources, because they cared about their means being more sought out on the market, to be better quality, to be safer, and thus developed standards. Unfortunately, we use two terms, completely wrong, allegedly, Serbian standards and other standards. I think we need to have a standardisation body, when it comes to medical means, and that idea can't be stopped. This standardisation should be very high-quality and for the sake of patients and for the entire treatment process and for the medical staff provided by this protection. It should also protect the patient, and should also protect the medical staff. Those are your standards. I would not be exclusive with regard to the quality of these standards, I would just draw attention to the legislator, and the proposer of this law is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that in the procedure, in front of this National Assembly, we have several laws where we face standards. We have the Law on amendments to the laws on inland water navigation and inland ports, where standards for ships, boats, cranes, etc. also appear. We have in the process of amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, where standards also appear for the safety of traffic relating to vehicles, standards concerning drivers, standards concerning traffic signs, standards that fight the road. I don't want to define the word standard for all these areas. There are some specificities and some differences, but I'm just surprised when standardisation comes together in a person's personality, not one organ. The last 17 years have changed the termology of writing regulations. There used to be "businesses from the ministry's jurisdiction for that and that". Today it is all reduced to one - minister. You know, a formal-legal minister is a political figure. The case wanted the Ministry of Health to always make sure that they were people from medical professions with high academic titles, that they also had a professional relationship with a leading resort, but formally there's no interference that a health minister should be chosen by a man who doesn't have some professional touch points with health. Now I'm going back to what this amendment is about, and that's the Agency. That drug agency is something that doesn't match the former Bureau. We had the Institute once as a management organization, and now we have the Agency which is a public agency in terms of some new attitudes, so it's not even a special organization. She's a legal person, but a legal person who has... You're even using the wrong terms here. You're saying the Agency has a business account. She doesn't have a business account, she has an account in the vault. Her account's in the vault. It is as vaulted as any direct, which indirect users of budget funds. You were wrong there and at the tariff. The tariff is a public arrival. Public income is customs, taxes, excises, fees, taxes. There are tariffs left in your copying, which mean nothing from the point of view of the legal system. I just want to draw your attention that it's not good if everything the Agency does as an independent legal person needs the consent of the Minister of Health. I think that's a bad solution. We have something similar, let's say, in education, which is also a massive system such as health-glomerated system, so it's not so much the agreement of the minister that someone finds themselves on the list of persons who are professional enough to assess whether something meets standards or to assess what should apply as some new standard in the Republic of Serbia when it comes to health care. Let me just draw your attention to one detail. English is no longer the official language of the EU, as the UK is in a phase of rapid exit from the EU. I don't mind that you also use those English expressions in certain places in the law. I think it takes a lot more to use Latin expressions, because it's the native language of medicine and health, but well, that's not so important right now. Mr. Minister, outpatient conditions are the theme that exists in science, in medical science. You teach it to students – treatment in hospital, treatment in non-bolical conditions. Here, now because of this translation, we've got these homesteads, so someone's probably going to defend the bed conditions, tied to the bed or who's not in the house and who's not in bed. I don't know why you insist on something that's contrary to the rules of your profession? We'll talk more about this agency. Of course, you have to bear in mind that we have the Institute of Standardization. This is where the health care business gets intertwined. That's what I have to tell you. In one part, you accept that it is intertwined when it is a medical agent or a medical product or medical medicinal product, it must be connected to electricity, so other conditions are needed for electricity, so if it is a pressure vessel, then again, other standards are needed that are prescribed by someone other than the health minister. I don't think you've found a good dimension, and you've had a unique opportunity, remember, to edit a complete system of health and medicine in one quality way and to please everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25844	Thank you, colleague Krasic. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25845	Thank you, Chairman. My amendment to Article 5, which is otherwise called the Agency's advisory bodies and deals with the education of advisory bodies, i.e. the Commission's opinion in accordance with this law and regulations, is a supplement that says: "The members of the Commission under Article 1 of this article have the status of officials in terms of laws governing conflict of interest and control of property and income of officials". This amendment was not accepted by the Proposer. The reason is that it does not accept because the wording set out in the proposal for a law achieves the same purpose, i.e. the proposed amendment does not achieve a better application of the provisions of the draft law. Our intervention in law wasn't an amendment, it was a supplement, so I don't think this argument can stand. We didn't propose anything to change, so you'd say your solution is better. We have asked to be complemented, to make it clear that members of these committees are subject to the Law on the ban on conflict of interest. That the potential of conflict of interest may arise also says the position of the 4th law, which stipulates that members of the Commission in Article 1 will be exempt from participating in the commission's opinion in a procedure in which they, their relatives on the right line, regardless of the degree of kinship, side-related relatives... For a very long time now, it has been all that they are employed, to give advisory roles, to have in managing bodies with some organisations or producers or representatives, where conflicts of interest can arise and that, if they are in such a situation, they should all sign a public declaration to prevent conflict and private and public interests. So I don't see a single reason, except that I of the opposition parliamentary group suggested this solution, so you don't accept it. So, one very simple addition, that these members of the commission are subject to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and that they are subject to the obligation to report property and everything else. I can't understand why this isn't accepted. In Article 6, there is a similar intervention, and the same is called for Article 6 to be able to conflict of interest and that it is resolved by a single statement, so that I cannot understand the argument. I can't understand what better application this is by not saying that members of the commission are subject to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, or that they are subject to the verification of their assets by the Anti-Corruption Agency, except that the government might want to abolish the Anti-Corruption Agency and have been working on it lately. We had a duty officer who seemed to be the 14-month director of the Anti-Corruption Agency. We got a director and then two months later, this director resigns and no one knows why and what's going on here and whether maybe the reason the Director or the Agency was obliged to check out which 6,740 SNS officials contributed identically to President Alexander Vukic's campaign. (Vladimir Orlic: Is this a topic? (Alexander Markovic: How much did you give DS? Forty thousand people, some of whom were social cases, made contributions of 4,000 dinars and therefore...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25846	Comrade Djurishich, can you get back on the subject, please?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25847	I'm just asking you for the same criteria...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25848	I'll give you an opportunity to explain, of course, I'm trying to have identical criteria, just please keep talking about the subject. I'm trying to have the exact same arches for you and for all the MPs here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25849	Chairman, if you were to work hard, you'd then be warning an MP who'd been here several times reading some health bills from India and talking about thieving. The second one talked about how vaccination was carried out in 2009 and who was stealing and what he was doing. You haven't answered a single word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25850	I was warning you, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25851	No, you didn't mention in any single word who had this accident to watch, and it's not in this room, to watch TV, he could see it. So leave me, because I'm not talking about the minister, his painting with criminals, how he... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25852	I won't let you do this. I don't want to let you talk any further, because this really doesn't make sense, since a man comes here for a few days, and he's very argumentatively discussing, with great commitment. (Marco Djurisic: I said I wasn't talking.) There's no point in saying that. You'd better stop. I don't want to discuss this anymore. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25853	Because of the completely unnecessary mention of the SNS, the Anti-Corruption Agency and the story that, imagine, someone seems to have been tasked with establishing the names of those people who have contributed to the SNS campaign or our candidate, so now there's no way to know. So, the question is, what's more pointless about that weight, is it talking about the unknown names these people are waving at? I don't know, is there even a party of the former regime that isn't kind of proud, as if it reveals I don't know what, waving lists of names of people who made a cash contribution to the SNS or our candidate? What's not to be discovered now? What don't you know about it? What is it that is at all controversial for people to pay their personal support to the party? What's the point now? I'm getting to the other thing. If we're talking about 19 or 40,000 dinars of a man's personal resources, how is it possible that they're asking some kind of question mark for people who supported candidates who still don't have an explanation today, no one word has an explanation for millions of euros just spent on the campaign, millions of euros? They don't understand 19 thousand dinars, but they understand everything on the subject of millions of euros, literally. Then when they are asked, and where did this money come from, what did the worthy candidate whom they supported do? That's where I think of Wolf Jeremic. They're being sent out, so he says -- that's what I've been helped by international corporations that don't do business in Serbia, I can't tell you who they are. Well, it hasn't been two hours, he realizes that it doesn't seem to be exactly in line with the rules, the election rules that the agency has been working on a little while before, and according to good practice, it's just about this corruption, so his vic has to fix it, run on TV and say, no, no, it's not that, it's financing something else, and our campaign has been funded from Serbia. This is what I end up with. Or if he thinks he's gone from one failed DOS candidate to another, to that Jankovic, so he's safe, well, he's not. It's only here that there's a light case. Here, the daily press is full of them. If we need to talk about it, come on, please, come on, I'm just waiting.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25854	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25855	I think the citizens could see and hear, and I'm glad, too, probably to the citizens of Serbia, that there are no objections to this bill or anything, and that this is simply used for other purposes. Everyone scratches where it it itches. Of course, as for the Agency for Corruption, as for both the Government and the President and all, we will give full support to examine and do everything. If anyone worked transparently, and in the campaign the only one who had the money, it had SNS. Obviously, it's no problem at all, but I think some others are in bigger trouble, so they want to move it to another topic. And always in the absence of arguments or anything, they have other topics. But be assured that whoever's there, or whoever's there, will have our support, whoever's doing this job safely, honestly, will have support, I repeat, both the Government and the President. That's our goal. That's what we promised the citizens. And what they're going to question, we're not insecure, we're not going to talk without facts. When they come out with it, we'll back it up. So, once again, thank you for having no objection to the law, but you're moving on to some other topics.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25856	Thank you. Members of the 5th Amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Aleksandar Marković, Jelena Zarić Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic and together Jelena Vujic Obradović, Marija Jevdić, Đorđe Kosanić, Petar Petrovic and Vojislav Vujic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25857	Thank you. Very brief, Chairman. This is another of the 13 amendments we have submitted to correct the text of the law itself. There was a need specifically in Article 5 for two minor interventions in the text itself, and that is the reason for the submission of this amendment. I'll take the opportunity to say that we're in the debate so far, it's quite clear, and we've all been able to hear that there's not a single fundamental grudge for Article 5, but for the whole law. Just to take the opportunity to thank the Minister for adopting our amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25858	Thank you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25859	I reported after the previous amendment. You didn't give me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25860	You can only follow this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25861	Well, I can't, because then I'd be breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25862	Well, you can't. It's not you who can break the Rules of Procedure, it's just me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25863	I can. Then you'd tell me I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25864	Here's to this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25865	I'll say, to make it clear to everyone, that this change is grammatical. The error was written twice "from". Once "from" has been deleted, there is one "out" left, and that is all the big change. I did not get an answer from the minister whether the members of this committee, will they succumb to the Law on Prevention, or the fight against corruption, will the members of the commission be obliged, as elected and appointed persons, to submit a report to the Agency and that the Agency has the right to deal with their report?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25866	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25867	I was hoping, in fact, I'm sure you know that, which is that the elected officials are subject to that law, and these are, these are, these are, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, I think you must know that and you know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25868	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25869	This amendment has been accepted and is well, I'm glad the government has accepted. He only makes an obligation for the Agency to publish solutions on its official website on the appointment and resolution of members of the commission. We put that deadline on for three days. The government accepted it, and I'm glad she accepted it. But I still didn't get an answer from the minister on the question – will these board members be... Being respected professors, I appreciate it all. If there was a possibility of conflict of interest, the member himself is talking about the possibility of conflict of interest and he then in this law, to say, eliminates it by setting himself up, making a statement. So, I am interested in a concrete answer – will these officials be obliged to turn to the Anti-Corruption Agency, give their report, regularly, annually, as it all goes, in accordance with the law? I didn't get that answer anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25870	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25871	Here, let me see what's bothering you. They sign a statement of conflict of interest and any one of them who violates that statement will be subject to the Anti-Corruption Agency.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25872	Thank you, Minister. Members of the 6th and 6th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25873	Thank you. Article 6 is about creating a list of experts for different medical means, since it is a broad area, which will then play an advisory and consulting role. And that's all right, with the bill promoter in paragraph 1 saying – the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices can establish a list of medical professionals. My amendment was heading towards changing this, not to be optional, but to say that the Agency is establishing a list of medical experts. I don't understand why the proposed change was rejected, why the agency is left with an option – it can make a list, and it doesn't have to make it. If it's a matter of options, why this whole member? That we need professionals, who might be able to consult on some extremely professional topics, when it comes to medical means, of course we do. On the second proposed amendment, I asked, of course, to comply with the unique methodological rules for making regulations, and it was rejected. Once again, I urge the law to be withdrawn from the procedure, to be completed, to comply with the unique methodological rules, to be translated to the end, to throw out unnecessary English words and expressions, and then to get the law back into the assembly, because we need this law. It is only a matter of form and the way it came before the MPs and is practically a mockery of this parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25874	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Sreto Peric, Vjerica Radeta and Miljan Damjanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. (Veritre Radeta: Yes. ) The word has a People's Messenger, the Prophet of Rade.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25875	Article 6 refers to the list of experts and talks about the Agency, with the previous agreement of the Minister, it may establish a list of experts, etc. Our objection was to delete this "with the consent of the Minister", and therefore we wrote an amendment to Article 6 and Article 5 is the existence of agencies as para-state authorities. You had one agency in this section, and now you've divided it, or when you pass this other law, then we'll have two agencies. The agencies are parasites on the back of Serbian citizens, or parasites on the back of the state budget. That's what we talked about when the Agency Act was passed and we, unlike some who were also against it, haven't changed our attitude. All the work that the agency is supposed to do is actually work in the ministries, and that can be done within the ministry administration, with existing personnel or possibly with the employment of some new people. We don't mind that, but the practice has shown that agencies spend huge amounts of money, that agency directors have higher salaries than resolution ministers in whose areas certain agencies are formed, which is absolutely not normal, and it's absolutely wrong, that agency employees have two, three times the salaries of ministry employees, and everyone here who sits in the ministries knows well. In the ministries, people with high school have 24.25 000 salaries, and in agencies they have at least 50,000, with high-priced also twice as much. The bottom line is that everything that's done is actually done in the ministries, and that's where the agencies are placed, they show up, they hire and they hire only party activists, and that's true, and that's practice, and that's where people are put up with who knows how diplomats got, who actually don't know their jobs. The work that needs to be done by this agency, people at the ministry, and those people in the ministry were supposed to be part of that administration that would do this much better than the agencies, and the government budget costs so much, we said in time, that you had suspended agencies, and that the president promised you when you were in the campaign, you wouldn't have to cut pensioners, because there's a larger amount of money that's given to agencies, which I repeat, are para-state authorities and that shouldn't exist. It's our fundamental objection to these two members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25876	Thank you, colleague Radeta. The word is Secretary Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25877	For the sake of Serbian citizens, I'm just saying, this is where you specifically think about the Agency for Medicinal Products. The Agency for Medicinal Products doesn't separate a single dinar from the budget. On the contrary, it pays 80% of its revenue to the budget, and it is not small money, working alone, self-sustaining and paying money into the Republic of Serbia's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25878	Thank you, Minister. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Aleksic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic, Ružica Nikolic and Ljiljana Mihajlovic together submitted the 6th amendment. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25879	The problem with Article 6 is that the list of experts is an operational document. It's not even an administrative act, it's not even a complex administrative act. The agency determines that list and you have inserted that someone, in order to be on that list of experts, must have the consent of the minister. Without the minister's consent, no one can be an expert, no one can be on the list without consent. We asked to change the first position, because if the Agency is an independent legal person, then it is independent to determine that list. This is why we asked that this change, this proposal to the final consensus, be applied to the following positions, because the following views include something that is paradoxical, regardless of whether this amendment will be adopted for the first position, is that the Agency cannot remove someone from the list unless it gives consent to the minister, and yet it is said to be a resolution. Please, the list isn't an appointment, so it can't even be a solution. What's that list? It's a list of experts from where the Agency should look depending on what kind of medical means it is and its, let's say, barging, which experts will give an expert assessment of whether it is in accordance with our standards, whether it can enter the register, whether it can be placed on the market, whether it can be used in medicine. However, this is a good opportunity to say something else. Since we're representatives of the so-called. The centralised approach to health care in the Republic of Serbia, unfortunately in these provisions, we do not see anything that is important to us. I am absolutely sure that within the medical profession, within the protocol of which healthcare professionals are treated, there is exactly a standard of medical use, so whether it is a needle, whether it is a test tube, etc. We believe that, given the state of Serbia, healthcare needs to be fully centralized, so that there is a central warehouse, so that all the area medical care entities show their needs and take over the appropriate amount of medical resources and medicines, so that it knows exactly what supplies are, what are short-term supplies, what are long-term supplies, because in this system it can be a pretty large savings to make, because it does not matter whether it is ordered 100,000 or ordered two million units. There's a big space where you can break this group that deals with drugs and medical resources, which behave marketly, not medically, they behave marketly. They are representatives of large pharmaceutical houses and large manufacturers of medical equipment, medical supplies and those by system, anyone who deals in trade wants to be a monopoly on a single market. He wants to be a monopoliest. Now there's a new category, it's managers, it's the ones that need to be bought. It's a new category, an imaginary manager. He should bribe, because he's being rewarded by the amount sold and he needs to bribe, and that's why he's pretty corrupt people who say – well, this needle from this manufacturer is a good needle from this manufacturer, so it's not a good patch of this, it's a good one. For the sake of the audience, it should be known, so some of the medical resources found in medical institutions are something of the medical means that serve so-called. Non-patient treatment, or help and there are also medical means in free sale. You know, in free sale, they're not dangerous, everyone can use them, they're pressurizers, etc. So let's get out of standard and see medical supplies as products, as goods on the market. Those goods on the market need to meet the standards. I'm up for it to be top standards. I draw your attention that we, with a CE sign, from Western Europe or the EU, get products certified to be the best quality, and then we see that it's a bofl. Then you go, say, to Italy, and you say -- please, I need that and the means, he says -- don't worry about what it says about "made in" China that it's produced, it's all by the standards that apply in Italy. And we here have an adequate animosity towards medical means, as well as other goods coming from the east, from the south, we all think that "Milk", which comes from, I don't know, Germany, Switzerland, the highest quality Milka, and now that drunk Jean Claude Junker, the President of the European Commission has admitted that manufacturers in Western Europe must agree, because it has been observed that with a sign of top quality, bofl goods go to the Eastern European market. So, the problem of Milk, the problem of detergent, the problem of perfume, is also reflected in the medical means of solution, test tube and other medical means. Now, we've spread a little bit to get this serious, so that someone doesn't really think that we're talking today about burgers, skewers and some other means through which health workers drown hunger and thirst.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25880	Thank you, colleague Krasic. A colleague of mine, Dr Dusan Milisavljevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25881	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will rely on my colleague Krasic's discussion and say that I am always personally in favour of decentralisation of power. However, in particular, when medical procurement is in place, I personally support centralisation as a austerity measure, because over the years of clinical practice I have received information, and I have gained confidence that many individuals, officials, have made a fortune by personally negotiating the purchase of certain scanners, magnetic resonances, surgical tables, surgical lighting, sets. So, for our country which is economically poor, as it is, much better as a household approach is a much better quality that centralized part where you could uniquely need the needs of clinical centres, health centres, homes of health, so that by choosing one manufacturer you would have the option of obtaining a number of magnetic resonances, scanners and everything else, the ability to lower the price and get a practical privilege for the state through two or three gratis machines, and we would deny individuals who would fill their pockets. They'd also have a cheaper service for those appliances, because they'd be serviced by a repairman. So this is how we had companies that, I'm not going to name the company because they're multinational companies, so someone doesn't get it wrong, but everyone saw that their product through their director, the house, was inserted into their health care facility. So I personally support the centralisation of medical tenders and that is exactly what the Ministry is doing, and that the Ministry must know the needs of clinical hospital centres and health centres in primary health care, so that it can through a centralized project that it has savings and benefits for our citizens themselves. When a colleague Krasic talks about the quality of products that came from some eastern Asian countries, there is no one against any producer from any part of the world, but they must meet the standards. Why I publicly praise the bill is this, because this is the European fluid that we are now adopting, that it will have to, whether it comes from China or Pakistan, have to meet the standards that apply in the EU, as you said, whether it applies in Italy or not, and not as before, when we had the opportunity in the 1990s to arrive at some vaccines, someone mentioned, but also antibiotics, sanitetic material, but also surgical material, which came as needed because it was the cheapest then, and not the best quality. It even turns out he was useless. That is why it is good to have standardisation with European legislation and that is why this is for the benefit of patients themselves, but it is also for the benefit of healthcare professionals because of the preparations they are working with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25882	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25883	It also sounds really nice for a man to accept all this right away, which is to get centrally all the drugs and all the medical supplies and make a big savings. Sounds great. But for the truth's sake, I have to tell you that a whole list of medications and all medical supplies that are the same for all institutions are already being purchased centrally through the Republic Fund. That's something you should at least know. If attacked, at least to know that something already exists, that something has already been done and that much has been done, that huge savings have been done. We saved hundreds of millions of euros on that. The second thing, I'll remind you, we entered the initiative and changed the way in public procurement not to be a decisive price, but to be a decisive quality. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25884	Thank you, Minister. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25885	Thanks, buddy. Our intervention in Article 6 is also related to preventing a possible conflict of interest. We have asked that experts on the list of items 1 of this article have the status of officials in terms of laws that regulate conflict of interest and control of property and income of officials. I can't figure out why it wasn't accepted. I have not yet received a reply from the minister – whether these experts in this case now, as in the previous member, members of the commission, regardless, did not say that they should not be from the order of the most respected professors and experts in their field, or anything like that, I was talking about the need for a society in which there is endemic corruption to fight corruption. Everywhere and everywhere. As you predicted, this law is that, as in the previous article, the members of the commission, here these experts, sign one statement and say, we will not act and we will opt out in the event of a possible conflict of public and private interest, as you put mothers here, probably. It is then further said that, with the prior consent of the Minister, the Agency shall authorise the expert from the list of experts referred to in Article 1, acting contrary to the position of the 2nd member, as well as if he does not carry out the work under his jurisdiction, or if he does them unwittingly. So if I read this well, the Agency will determine whether these experts, as before, have found themselves in the position of a possible conflict of interest. They choose for four years. I don't know when you imagined signing this statement, probably at the beginning, and that should now apply to all the time in the next four years since the appointment. What are the services of the Agency and the Ministry, which will now deal with establishing a possible conflict of interest, in four years, for all experts on this list, to be established by the Agency with the agreement of the Minister? So, if the minister gives consent to the sea and he knows whether all these people have passed the check of a possible conflict of interest, on a lateral, such or such line, related and all of what Article 5 is saying here and this solution in Article 6. I don't think that's good, it's not good enough. If we have the Anti-Corruption Agency, no matter what there is no director, that agency should deal with it, that experts in this case are also some respected professors, doctors or already people of a particular profession, which is why we take them, to help the Agency and call them experts. I really hope that there won't be those with the diplomats bought, although this is increasingly the case today in various areas of society, that these experts will be responsible enough and that they don't behave contrary to this law. But that goodwill and good faith is not enough if we want to deal with corruption both in the case of health corruption and in the case of non-medical procurement, as well as in the whole society. That's why there are anti-corruption agencies throughout society, and that's why it is our opinion that this agency should also deal with the experts that this law recognises, that the Agency's going to take care of it itself, I suppose, that experts are not acting contrary to attitude 2. What kind of services are they gonna do at the Agency now? What kind of people in the ministry are going to do that? On what basis will you determine that after two or three years, there is no possibility of conflict of interest? Should we now be building parallel structures, if we already have the Anti-Corruption Agency? I don't think it's clear, we don't think it's good, it doesn't contribute to transparency in the future work of the Agency, it doesn't contribute to the fight against corruption, and we all agree that it's one of the priorities of this country and one of the reasons why we lost a lot of time, a lot of money in the previous years, and why we can't do it faster, stronger, better in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25886	Thank you, colleague Giurisic. The word is Secretary Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25887	Let me remind you, we're going faster, stronger and better, and that's what it feels like, and you can see it. As for the Ministry of Health, I repeat, zero tolerance for corruption, everyone knows. The result is already visible, health care is no longer convincing in the first place and by perception and by all means in corruption. Next thing you know, you've been here from both the Agency and the Ministry, and whoever's in charge of it will be involved. We can point out to the Anti-Corruption Agency on any suspicion, of anything, or anyone else, not just us, but the only one who's going to deal with it will be those people at the Agency who are professionals and who know and who will do it better. It's ours to point out if there's any doubt, not just ours, but anyone, and they're gonna do their job. I repeat, zero tolerance for healthcare corruption.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25888	Thank you, Minister. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25889	Thank you. I'd just like to add, I'm surprised that a colleague who proposes this amendment repeats himself with the same story as in the previous amendment, where it questions whether experts on the list will somehow be punished or already processed. I am surprised, given how long it has been in the parliamentary term, that it does not know that this area is governed by special regulations, and that, during the debate on the previous amendment, the minister said that this area is being arranged and that all those persons on the list, or those experts, have previously signed statements declaring whether or not they are in conflict of interest and that, of course, they will answer and criminally to the law if any of these are not true. As far as this is concerned, stronger and better, I think the citizens of Serbia have seen Serbia taking big steps forward. Once again, I will repeat, that in every election, even greater support gets exactly that policy – faster, stronger and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25890	Thank you. The word is by MP Ivan Manojlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25891	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is what it looks like when, you know, you call an expert, you try to get those real experts to bring them in and put them under question. Since my colleagues have already explained, I will only briefly give the gentleman another reason why this amendment has not been accepted, and it is precisely the fact that it is in the light of this amendment, i.e. In his writing, he made the experts on the list of “graves 1, ” so that I would not read any further. So, if more arguments are needed on this, everything my colleagues have mentioned earlier, then I really expect these amendments to be as frequent as possible, as Mr. Vladimir Orlic said, that there are indeed many. But not only are the literal mistakes a problem with the opposition, but it's simply their desire to push again and interfere with the agenda that patients who are important to us here are important to us and that this law will speed up this very law to these people, within the shortest time, be a cure and a necessary medical remedy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25892	Thank you, colleague Manojlovich. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25893	Yes, a literal error is indeed a proof of the great intricacies of the amendment promoter, and I think that should make it completely impossible to discuss and discredit everything that the amendment promoter wrote or wanted to say, but if we apply that rule, then, of course, this whole law should be rejected, because there are written mistakes in the law. Some of these letters of error have been created by the SNS MPs with the ultimate detection, and they have, they have changed in the form of amendments, but it seems that one of the letters of error disqualifies me from any debate. But I won't disqualify myself from the debate. I will say that I support, of course, when the minister says that zero is the rate towards corruption in the work of his ministry. Now I don't know if it's corruption or ignorance and stupidity, when you can't bring in equipment that needs to be installed at the Clinical Center in Nis, and then it says, "We're not going to tear down the wall so we can bring in that equipment, we're going to drill a hole in the wall." This whole law is, I think, Mr. Minister, finding a hole in a potty, nothing here is epochal. You've separated the area previously defined by the drug and medical law into two laws and there's nothing controversial about it, but it's nothing reformal, or epochal, or anything else. Whether, in the application of this law, disputed situations will arise, I'm sure they will, as you predicted, specifically these things and potential conflicts of interest. You have foreseen, I repeat, the prevention of conflicts of interest by signing one statement, and the disrespect of that statement, as a sanction under this law, carries a solution from the seat of a member of the commission, that is, in this Article 6, from the place of experts on the list, and that is all. And what one will accomplish, possibly, perhaps, God forbid, by conflict of public and private interest, how did you define it here, in whose jurisdiction would it be? The D.A.'s office? Well, we see how the D.A.'s doing. Did she question SNS donations? It's not. Did they question the origins of the money of Secretary Vulin? It's not. Did she investigate and press charges against those who beat the press here a few months ago when President Vukic took an oath? It's not. So, is the D.A. gonna do something about it? He won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25894	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, colleague Orlic, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25895	It's not, of course, because of this general expertise, because of the literal mistakes. I think, however many signatories of various amendments from this parliamentary group, each managed to make more than one. We said we wouldn't talk about it anymore, it's not as important as, for example, the story of that center. Imagine now, it's a terrible problem for us to discuss whether the wall is in a certain place. Let me ask you, which wall, from the perspective of the yellow company, was there no wall on either side? No doors, no windows, no holes, nothing, no bare meadows. And now we're with them to discuss the subject, so that's completely pointless. But when we talk about these contributions, about corruption, about the relationship of the Anti-Corruption Agency, here's, for example, interesting questions. I am now looking at a publicly available list, publicly available as well as these other lists mentioned today, donors of the very united yellow company in 2012. What was the situation of companies such as "Alpha Sor", "Buljarica", "Oranica", "Milinkovic Kop", etc., which donated up to one to 7.5 million dinars? How well did they do that year when they could contribute to the bright victory of the yellow company? Seventy-five million each, and there's some more modest ones at six. The president of the municipality's assembly, or the president of the municipality, will help me, probably they know better, the Old Town, Bastac Marko, 580,000 dinars had a surplus, and contributed to the bright victory of the yellow company that year. Marko Djurisic, who could it be, 345,000 dinars. Zoran Djindjic 341,000. It's another man, apparently. Modest Dulic, this must be some kind of great knowledge of the yellow company, 138,000 dinars. It could be that brother of the former minister. These lists are so long, we could read them all day, because these lists are totally fine and there's everything in place and there's nothing to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25896	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25897	I'm done. This is the last sentence, Mr. Chairman. (Radoslav Milojic: Time, two minutes and 20 seconds. A must be asked about someone's 19,000 dinars. This, heroes, to explain. First of all, the one who likes to throw away, give him a chance.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25898	Thank you. (Radoslav Milojic: Time! I'm just asking you to behave yourself. (Radoslav Milojic): He spoke for two minutes and 20 seconds. You're not in a bar, you're in a respected and tall home, you're aware of that. Thank you. We're closing a circle of replicas. Marko Djurisic: What does that look like?- I'm sorry. If you want me to explain? So, you've completely strayed from the subject and challenged, saying, I can't and I won't let you talk so much off topic. [[Marco Djurisic: Give me, I have the right to reply.]] You said, you had time, I didn't warn you at all, you talked about donations, about the Anti-Corruption Agency, about failures, your colleague Orlic replicated, and I don't want to discuss it anymore. Let's move on. The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure! ) Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Radoslav Milojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25899	I'm advocating Article 108, which you can never honor by your appearance and way of holding a session. Article 108 says the order at the session is the old president of the National Assembly or his replacement, in this case you. Whenever you run a session, you make some kind of scandal. Whether you're doing it with intent or because you're not up to it enough, it's not up to us Members to discuss it at all. Every time you let someone from the ruling coalition go over 20 seconds allowed for two minutes. It doesn't say two minutes and the remaining time the chairman considers appropriate, but two minutes. You have to turn off every speaker's microphone after two minutes. You here turn off your microphone and take away your word however you think you should, and allow the ruling majority's 20, 30 and 40 seconds to speak whatever they want. Usually it's something that's not in line with the agenda theme. Usually they're lies, like the previous speaker said. Well, and if in 2012, someone paid the Democratic Party, where so many millions to the Serbian Progressive Party that was then... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25900	A fellow Milojitsu... (Radoslav Milojic: Is it possible of Miskovic? I'll take two minutes away from the MP's time. (Radoslav Milojičić: Take the liberty. Are you done? (Radoslav Milojic): You can't for two minutes, because I haven't spoken for two minutes. Well, I'll take it from you as far as you're saying. (Radoslav Milojic): And how much did I say, answer? Thank you. I'm gonna have to take that time away from you. You've abused the Rules of Procedure. I just have to point out that this amendment to Article 6 submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic, the Government and the Committee on Health and Family, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go, colleague Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25901	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about a list of medical experts. Vasa-dasa, Vasa Petrovic, the great director and great expert from Indjija, who Martinovic knows the case, is also a donor. His company, which he led to the neighbour, was incomed by this great expert, for medical means, including painting, 100 million. A colleague from the former regime was happy to see a guest, an expert, so, along with the regional secretaries... (Radoslav Milojic: Is this about the amendment? I think you need to stop this throw. It's a list of experts, and since he's been pandering for about 12 hours, it's too late...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25902	I'm sorry to interrupt. My friend Milojich, please don't throw away. (Radoslav Milojic: Is this an amendment? There's no point, please don't throw it away. Thank you in advance. (Radoslav Milojic: So will I speak according to the amendment.) Comrade Rističević, continue. (Radoslav Milojic: Shame on you. I'll speak the same way after the amendment. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25903	The list of experts must not include the experts of this type. They have received awards, but Tomica Milosavljevic. They left the debt to those experts of 261,442,040,86 pairs. A fellow expert in the former regime's party denied it. Especially these pampered Viennas, the carajorian experts. Here, I'm offering to resign if this information isn't correct. But if true, a colleague from the former regime's party also resigns uninvited. We've now reduced that debt by 90 million, but on that day he stood so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25904	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. The National MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted the title of Article 7 and Article 7 of the amendment. The word is from a colleague, Branka Stamenković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25905	Thank you. This Article 7 refers to tariffs which the Agency determines for certain services it provides. Then it says this - the Agency determines the tariff for the provision of the following services, and at point 12 says – issuing a free hall of the medical certificate which is placed on the market or used for export purposes. My amendment went in the direction of replacing this English term, i.e. translates more - free halls of certification, so that point 12 reads - the issue of certificates in free sale for medical medicine. Here we return to the problem of non-compliance with the unique methodological rules for making the rules, by wanting this opportunity to refer to the president's responsibility, not only to criticise the legislator. In the Rules of Procedure, Article 153 clearly defines that if a draft law is reached in the National Assembly which is not written in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is the responsibility of the President of the National Assembly to return the bill to the Proposer and to ask him to arrange it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The same Rules of Procedure in Article 48 states that the Committee on Legislative Affairs and Constitutional Affairs adopts an act on uniform methodological rules, as otherwise required by Article 8. The Law on the National Assembly. It is therefore completely unclear and I consider it very responsible for the National Assembly for not saving us all this and these linguistic and other debates here in parliament so that we may have time to deal with the essence, because it did not immediately return the proposal to the legislator at the moment when he came to the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25906	Thank you, colleague. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25907	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I certainly suggest that such and similar amendments, of course, are not accepted, and I believe they will not be accepted, because how can you accept something... The SNS and this government are open to suggestions, but when these proposals make sense, when these proposals, as my colleague Risticevic said, do not come down to looking at the ball or parking brooms or seeing prisons. Now I don't know why anyone's seeing and seeing, probably because of some past sins, but since we don't have time to discuss these sins here today, because there are many, of those who have pulled out now, who have been pictured before and prison and who are talking about methodology, about eradicating and constantly eradicating, there's no point. It is precisely because the amendments that are proposed and the same are repeatedly repeated have no substance and there is nothing that can make the law better. That is why I believe that such amendments and similar ones, which seem to be invariably today, should be rejected by each other's leaves. I absolutely support all those proposals that are legally on the agenda and I think, if you compare everything we have from the criticism across the street, that the law is perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25908	Thank you, fellow Filipovic. Branka Stamenkovic, do you want the right to reply or by amendment? You have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25909	Thank you. As for the address of the previous speaker, I'd like to thank him for reminding me to say something I forgot to say, because if he hadn't mentioned the ball and the broom, I'd have forgotten. So thank you very much. What I'm trying to say is that we need free textbooks for all primary school students and high school students in the Republic of Serbia. We need them immediately, and we need them as soon as possible. The MP's group Enough is being advocated that all children in the Republic of Serbia have free textbooks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25910	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Krsto Janjušević. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25911	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Article 106, agenda theme. There's talk of medical supplies, and an esteemed colleague is talking about free textbooks. Let's do this. First, there is no reason for her to be this nervous and indisposed, because their leader still made a great contribution to mankind by stopping interfering in science. It's a first. Secondly, Dr. Radulovic operated on some 15 companies in his bankruptcy operating room and ended up all in a coma. They probably made a mistake because they gave him their real ID cards, he saw how much they were worth, and when he saw what it was worth, he ended up in misery and misery in two days. We're talking about medical supplies, here. Let's just get some, get some gamma knives. They've provided us with an alpha dericocose. When it comes to textbooks, say in this, and it will be understandable to those younger ones who want to use their campaign, there are Belgrade elections, and they are free of charge before the Belgrade elections. If your movement is a serious failure, there's no saving you in a free bumblebee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25912	Thank you, colleague Janjusevic. Of course, I was going to give my right to the replica of my colleague Stamenkovic and I couldn't predict that it would go so far beyond our agenda. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? (No) Thank you. Branka Stamenkovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25913	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Article 103 paragraph 8, clearly defines that if a person reports after a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and enters the replica, that means that he has misused the right to breach of the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure, then the chairman of the MP should be punished by taking two minutes away from the debate. The previous MP reported to the Rules of Procedure, and then he entered a story about some bankruptcy, and I don't know what. So I'd like to ask you to take two minutes of SNS, according to the Rules of Procedure, because they've misused the rules of procedure. As soon as I'm done with this, I want to report for the amendment or if you give me a replica as authorized to respond to what my colleague said. If you're not giving me a replica, then the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25914	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. And you're, of course, aware that you were talking about textbooks, which is not the topic of today's agenda, so I'd like that debate on Bucharests and textbooks to finish, if that's okay with you. I'll give you my word on the amendment. You don't have the right to a replica, not because I don't want to give it to you, but simply because of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, there's no replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25915	Thank you. We're discussing amendments to medical laws today. The previous MP who participated in the discussion on these amendments was a fully related fact about Vienna steaks, balls, flying brooms, and also about bankruptcy managers. In that sense, in order to make a quality contribution to this and such debate, we must say once again that we need free textbooks for all children in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25916	My colleague Stamenkovic, I insist that you speak and receive all your rights within the session. I don't think there's any need for this kind of discussion since we have a very important agenda theme, please get involved. You're always having an argument, so there's no need for this. Let's move on. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 7th amendment. The word is Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25917	Thank you. We have proposed this amendment to say, "Free Hall of Certificates" replaces the Syntagma: "Free Transport Certificate". There's a lot of talk about this term law, a lot of talk about translation. I say very often, because I'm very honest and I want to be honest with what I'm doing, that the laws may not be understood enough, but in translations I understand very well. One of the problems with this translation is that he's really bad. I don't know who my colleague or colleagues were doing this job, but they didn't do it well, among other things, because he's extremely transparent or transparent, and that's said for a translation that simply shows the original, so it's not written in the spirit of the language and does not look like a Serbian language, but in English. This tells us a lot of things, let's say, it also tells us that, apart from not doing a good job, rather indiscriminately transposing EU laws and applying and implementing them to us. I'm not usually absolutely no language cleaner. I've been doing this job for a very long time and those who work with me and who know I'm not any language cleaner, but since it's been said here that it's a linguistic discussion I'm going to distract you first of all that it's not true. This translation becomes our law. So it's not about whether something nice is said or said uglyly or not well enough. If this was a book, I'd tell you, you didn't, if it were a novel, a fixed so-called. I'm not running away from that term. I'd tell you you didn't translate well, so you should translate better. But here's the problem with this translation becoming our law and we're going to have to follow the letters of that law, and that's going to be a very big problem. I think many colleagues have already pointed to that. Therefore, I do not agree at all with those who say these are groundless, that these are pointless amendments. They're not pointless at all. I agree completely with all those who say that English is extremely dominant, of course I'm glad because it's my profession. I agree with all of that, but that's no reason for us to accept these laws and terms, but rather for the reason that we fight to maintain and preserve our language, so as not to be consumed by such laws and translations that are not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25918	Thank you, colleague Chabrai. The word has a folk emissary, Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25919	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I'm just about to say that it's not sad would be funny. Here, follow me carefully, I will read Article 7 point 12) says this: Article 7 – The Agency issues a tariff for providing the following services; it says – point 12) – assessment of compliance, technical assessment with the monograph of the national pharmacopoeia as well as valid European pharmacies or international pharmacies. Furthermore, compensation for the provision of services under headings 1(1) to 7, 9 to 12 of this Article shall be paid by the applicant. The compensation for the provision of services referred to in point (8) of Article 1 of this Article shall be paid by the user of the service, with the exception of Article 2 of the Statute, etc., etc., that I do not read the whole point to the end, neither shall the English name be ‘free circulation certificate’. As much as they read the law and know which member and to which point they submit the amendments. So, not a single letter in this dot. Please, just so much attention, what you were talking about refers to point 11). In one law, it is very important to keep an eye on whether it is 11 or 12. There's nothing important to you, everything is aproximative, anything is possible and impossible, and we simply don't have to believe in our own eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25920	The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25921	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, fellow Members of Parliament, since 10 a.m., we are talking about amendments to the proposal for a law on medical means and the greatest attention of fellow Members of Parliament is precisely in grammar errors and in English. What interests me is the essence of the bill, and as it is written in English or Serbian, it is important to me what will be applied in the state of Serbia. I want to tell you that Serbia has been in negotiations with the EU since 2000, we have been negotiating for 17 years, and in this home we will whisper to each other, and I will stop there, not to give further qualifications. What I'm trying to say is that some Eastern European countries have passed a law in the English language accession process and they lacked nothing. As far as I can see, they are now living much better and better quality than our citizens do. What's important is that some of the principles of whether you're a government or an opposition should not be the subject of debate. As far as medical laws are concerned, there should be at least some major debates and conflicts, and in particular about this law that regulates certain rights for healthcare professionals who use these medical means and for citizens who use it, I think we should all contribute to improving the law and get off this amendment gymnastics where we could get some time to express our views and opinions, but specifically on the amendment and the bill itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25922	Thank you, Dr. Milisavlevich. The word has Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25923	Thank you. I'm reporting again on the same issue, which is the use of English terms. Let's once again conclude all together as opposition and as a position, that the essential thing about lawmaking is to arrange a detailed area that is regulated by law, to shorten procedures, to simply influence the quality of everything that the law defines. Here, a colleague, opposition counterpart Milisavljevic, said that even states that changed the law, by introducing certain foreign or English terms, to live better. I'm glad an opposition colleague has that attitude, but it's essential that we change things for the better. How about we put in terms that don't have universal use, that those who are in a situation, that bureaucracy practically prevents what we want, which is to cut deadlines, to speed up procedures, that patients who are the most necessary medical means can't get to them in certain dynamics. I'm not gonna answer on this one anymore, and I think the public is familiar enough about all this.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25924	Thank you, Dr. Laketich. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25925	Thank you, Chairman. I will refer to the discussion of my esteemed colleague, Laketić, and I have expressed that attitude about English several times and it is not disputed. It's something else, my colleague just filed the amendment, and then a colleague from the SNS said it wasn't in the law. I don't know if the SNS has another bill or if I have the right, right law. Please, Article 7 of point 12) and it writes very clearly, but in several sessions it tries to impute the opposition not to read the laws on the part of the authorities. I think the colleague was reading the old law, the one where he was united on medical means and medications, that he was from that law. Please, it says clearly here, and I don't know what this is about. Then fellow Laketic confirms it. It's easy to hit the opposition and make sense of it. We've been talking nonsense all day. Let's not think of these amendments as concrete, even with this amendment as agreeing, but with the one who has submitted the SNS through its representatives and the Serbian Dvora Movement through me as an authorised promoter, we withdraw to get to work dynamics, that the law that I do not like, because it is from the EU and if it is necessary for the country of Serbia, we can adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25926	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. The word is Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25927	Thank you. I was just about to say what my colleague said. I don't know what her colleague was reading, but Article 7 of point 12 writes – issuing a “free hall of certification”. I really don't think you read these laws. Did we get the same material for this session or not? You know, it wasn't easy to read 200, and I don't know how many pages, but we're honored to make mistakes, and I think I have proof in my hands that I've said it right. Secondly, I want to remind you, really, it's not about shooting who made more mistakes, our mistakes if there are mistakes, there won't be consequences, but these mistakes that enter into the law will have any consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25928	Thank you, colleague Chabrai. The word is from a colleague named Vladimir Orlic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25929	For the sake of mentioning the party and the interesting proposal - what to do with these amendments, it would be good for everyone to worry about what he is responsible for, responsible, and how long he is at his disposal. So, about your amendments. Dear gentlemen on the other side of the hall, don't worry about any amendments submitted by colleagues from the SNS or from the parties on our list. Whoever wants, on the other hand, to withdraw anything that he suggested, willed to him, not only at his will, probably for his own good. So he'll probably be much better off with what he's planning to do today, explain or already how he's using, withdraw, among other things, and because of the consequences we've been talking about. Everything has its consequences, everyone's performance here and everything they say or do. Among other things, the consequences are measured in what citizens think of each and every one of us tomorrow. Some who haven't figured it out so far have had opportunities, too bad they haven't done it, could have had these good consequences to recognize, say, the results of the election. In the election results, so does these very loud and brave ones, who are already famous for entering the Guinness Book of Records in phenomenal results when it comes to the rapid drinking of beer up and down. Some had to compete with invalid ballots in the 2017 elections. Among other things, it is an important consequence of what they do and work in the National Assembly until yesterday as they played and sang with the rest of the ensemble. After that, as many as there are, 6% or 5.5%, I can no longer conclude, which are shared by their candidates from the previous elections, with those who supported them, with the "yellow company", are now both there, on the edge of the censorship, and this is the consequence of what seems and what is done. When we talk about conflicts of interest, maybe because they were trying to abuse and the rights they had at their disposal, that's what I end up with, Mr. Chairman, while they were performing important state functions, both of them, so thirdly, all together and ended up where they are, somewhere on the edge of the censorship, wondering why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25930	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25931	Article 106. I was talking not only about the amendment, but I even read it, I really don't know what's going on here. I don't know why anyone's bothered that I read the facts and correct a colleague who reads incorrectly and reads that we wrote what's in the law. I really don't think this has anything to do with the amendment, and you can judge for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25932	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in Vote Day? (Yes) Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Seselj, Zoran Krasic, Vjerica Radeta and Nemanja Sarovic. The word has a folk emissary of the Faith of the Rade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25933	You find this provision of Article 7 where you have provided that the agency does not charge tariffs for positions referred to in Article 1 as it states, which are jobs where the agency issues a tariff for the provision of certain services and you say – where it will not issue for operations relating to grants and humanitarian aid, i.e. the grant programme in the EU, and in the event of an emergency situation, as well as for the performance of operations at the request of the Ministry. Here, as far as we Serbian radicals are concerned, there are controversial two things. Why only when it comes to humanitarian donations from the EU, why you make a difference in donations for more, are EU donations more significant than donations from some other friendly countries, and quite certain that donations come from our friendly countries as well. Of course, we do not understand what kind of jobs will be done at the request of the Ministry and beyond health institutions. This is at least unspeakable to you. When it comes to this relationship with the EU, and even in donations, you distinguish from the EU and some other friendly countries, because mostly in the EU they are not friends of Serbia, whether you love it or not, it is a fact and you are satisfying those EU countries, and above all, the United States, for how long you have not granted diplomatic status to the Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre. So don't run the right policy when it comes to the state of Serbia and the relationship to the Russian Federation, which should be our basis in everything. Why didn't you do it? Because on July 14th, there was a statement from the US Embassy that they wrote that this status should not be granted to the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis. So, they, or you, have answered their request and NATO troops can go any way they want to go around Serbia, and you do not allow this humanitarian centre diplomatic status. As for the SRS and our relationship with the Russian Federation, we show it, among other things, that our MP group at the AP Vojvodina Assembly has launched an initiative to form a Serbian-Russian humanitarian centre for the territory of Vojvodina and these days our activists are collecting signatures for this petition and we are really thrilled how much citizens of Serbia want to co-operate with the Russian Federation and you, I say, and in this law on medical means, which should be apolitical, convince us for days that it is an apolitical, special standard you give the EU, even when it comes to humanitarian aid. Unbelievable. Please accept this amendment if what the declarative government is saying is true, with what it's really doing. Thank you. Unbelievable. Please accept this amendment, if true is what the declarative authority declares with what it does realistically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25934	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25935	Thank you, Chairman. In Article 7 of the proposal for a Law on Medical Devices, it is precisely defined and taxed when, in which circumstances and for which the services provided by the Agency charges a tariff, and when not. I believe it is fully justified and correct, and ultimately, ethically that the Agency for certain services does not charge the tariff and it is precisely defined in the draft law. So, to medical resources and donations and humanitarian aid ", "means donation and humanitarian aid and from friendly countries, not only from the EU. A member of the Law says "medical funds from donations and humanitarian aid, or donation programmes in the EU", which means that all well-intentioned people can donate medical supplies and medicines, are particularly important these drugs that the pharmaceutical company wants to donate, and are not registered in our country for patients suffering from severe and rare diseases. This means a lot to our patients both for us and for these patients to be included in the EU programme to get the most modern therapy. Of course, the Agency should not charge even when the Ministry of Health is overseeing the inspection of medicinal products and medicinal products or in the process of monitoring by the inspection of medicinal products and medical products. I believe this amendment should be rejected, as you have done.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25936	Thank you, colleague. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25937	The amendment must be accepted! Mr. Lonchar, when you return to the government, go to the Republic Secretariat for legislation and tell them that you've been embarrassed, since you're here as a representative of the government. You are not in charge of these matters governed by Article 7. It's a business tariff for the agency. Mr Lončar, in the public income and public expenditure system of the Republic of Serbia, incomes exist: customs duties, taxes, excise taxes and fees, and there is nothing left. As far as this agency is concerned, it is the second user of public funds, class 6, code 11900 belongs to the Ministry of Health, 40800 is registered at the vault in the municipality of Voždovac. Mr Lončar, please inform those in the Republic Secretariat of legislation that there is a group of 22 tariffs in the Law on the Republic of Administrative Taxes, i.e. a tariff number of 180 to 185, which concerns compensation, not the price of the service, but the fee paid to this Agency. It's a word tariff. It's a tool of something. Mr. Lonchar, we have the Administrative Tax Act. The composition of that law is the tariff of administrative taxis. So the Agency can have a decision on the amount of compensation for the services it provides, and as they will be classified, it is operationally some tariff. However, Mr Loncar, this same Republic Legislative Secretariat has also referred us to the proposal for a law on inland water navigation and inland ports and we have something similar to that of standards. It is the Administration for the Control of the Rightness of Ships and there is a fee paid and now the law is changed and it is said – the fee is paid at the level of the Republic's administrative fee. So the same proposer, same similar matter with the same legal fate in two different ways is proposed. This in this law of yours, Article 7 is completely... Please, it's like he wrote someone like he didn't go to the Republic Secretariat for legislation. I'm absolutely sure that even the intern who works there would have corrected you if this wasn't good, but probably one forest was created – this belongs to this chapter, we go, we rewrite it, we install it, who are you there to correct us? Mr Loncar, tell these in the Republic Secretariat of Law that the first act here is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that the second act is laws and that everything that is done must be in accordance with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, which means if you already have to take something from abroad, you have to adapt them to our legal system. That's the story. We have not submitted this article to the 7th amendment as I am telling you. Why? Whatever we write to you well-meaningly, you say we have argument 126, we don't accept it, you are against the EU, and you are for the EU, goodbye, bye. We accept, it's your decision, and we don't get angry, but we're giving you the best sense of purpose. Look, we've only submitted 14 amendments here to distract you that it's no good. When you vote this bill, you'll see how many blanks and holes will appear. With such a text of the law, you only give the right to lawyers, representatives of all interested parties, that through court cases and in other ways they may exercise their rights in some proceedings, although they do not originally belong to those rights. We wanted to improve this text, that all those who need to apply this law know what they're applying, go with familiar sizes and values. So it's not a fee with you, it's a tariff. The tariff as an act does not exist. She can only contribute to the Administrative Tax Act. So you have a lawyer's tariff, but it says there: tariff – rewards and fees for the work of lawyers. I don't know how it's written.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25938	Thank you, colleague Krasic. The word has Dr. Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25939	I'm not a lawyer, and I'm not going to interpret the right, but I'm going to say something about the citizens of this country and about patients who need to receive certain therapy or to use certain medical means. In fact, what if the funding from donations and humanitarian aid, or the donation programme in the EU, we manage to get and manage to include our patients who are suffering from rare diseases and those who are extremely rare in Serbia, who can be treated in this way? It is my guess that our common goal is for the availability of these treatments to persons who cannot be adequately treated in our country not only through a budget fund, which is formed, I will remind them, formed by this government and this health ministry, but also by means of a donation of certain medicines that are not registered in our country or medical means. I guess that's the key thing, huh? As far as legal legislation is concerned, legal form will be found. Is it moral, to ask you, that if someone gives you a certain amount of medicine or medical resources that you charge for all this? As far as I'm aware of morale, it's not, and I definitely think that the least problem for lawyers is to find an adequate solution and I think it was certainly found in the framework of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25940	Thank you, Dr. Laketich. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Marko Djurisic. That someone wants a word, too? No, I don't. ) On Article 7 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Also, honourable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break until 15.00 hours, when her Excellency Valentina Matvinko, President of the Federation Council of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation will address us and after that special session we will continue to work on the amendments. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament continue to work. Members of the 7th Amendment in the same text were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25942	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are on board. Article 7 is talking about the Agency. Like any agency, this agency has its services. The Agency shall issue a tariff for the provision of its services. The government has listed 10 marked services here, I will not speak of them specifically, and let me say, among other things, that point 3, the approval of imports of medical remedies for the treatment of a particular patient. I must say that the former regime did not take care of it, if he had kept an eye out for the former health minister, Dr Tomica Milosavljevic created an affair in which he personally participated, in April 2010, i.e. He operated at Munich Hospital, operated on hernia's dishumbly, which was from deep mistrust in our local, Serbian health care. Dear Vice President, today we heard criticism from the ruling coalition. I must stress that intelligence circles from the EU and its institutions have claimed and claimed that with the help and full consent and support of former Serbian President Boris Tadic, from Serb health funds, has evaporated several billion euros in Serbian clinics. With the help of Tomica Milosavljevic, experiments were carried out on Serbian patients and the mafia farm was investigating its problematic medicines, so that as much as 1500 euros were paid to Serbian doctors, and they forced sick citizens of the Republic of Serbia to make opiates, etc. It was also supported by Boris Tadic himself. We also heard the criticisms of a certain minor political group today, the parties "never had enough". I must say that their MP, who is a professor of the university back two days, participated in N1 CIA television, presented the lies about our MPs Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic and Dr. Vlad Orlic, as well as my dear friend Marijan Risticevic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25943	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25944	Thank you. Since we're from different parliamentary groups, this would be the reason for the replica, but I'm not going to use it right. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this member speaks of tariffs. We won't have the tariffs they had. This is where I listed some tariffs, special tariffs. We can also talk about Dragan Draskovic, whose aunt is a Republic Prosecutor, we can talk about those 108 public procurements, which those who did not manage health care, were made at the KBC, or at the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina. We can also talk about the procurement of various medical resources from the "Milk" republic, their representative, which has more republics than the former SFRY, "Milk, Fruit", "Užička", etc. I hope, and I believe, that in this government and in this government there will be no such practice and such tariffs. These tariffs, as I have stated, I must also tell you what I forgot to say, were every 20 days 300 lunches, special tariffs. What's the problem with those 300 lunches? Which that bar can accommodate 80 guests. I don't understand how 80 guests ate 300 lunches? Either their appetites were not modest or their tariffs were big, especially in India, especially in Novi Sad, especially in Kamenica, which I will talk about below, as I talk about these amendments. It doesn't occur to me not to say what members of the former regime did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25945	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Tatjana Macura, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25946	Dear Chairman, I point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 158(1), which speaks of a specific search being carried out on members to whom amendments have been submitted and amendments proposing the introduction of new provisions, with a total search time, etc. So we repeat the situation from session to session, where two MPs, proposing amendments in which they only add marks, talk about everything except what's on the agenda of the session. Please, since there is simply no room for you to oppose me in the sense that the Rules of Procedure has not been injured this time, I would ask you to pay more careful attention to whether MPs who have submitted their amendments by adding a decimal, really talk about the added score or still speaking beyond the topic on the agenda. If so, then I can take another chance and say that free textbooks are needed by all founding students and all high school students in the Republic of Serbia, every time MPs abuse a pay phone to speak beyond the subject of the agenda. I hope I made myself clear. Also, I ask that in the day of the vote, we make a statement on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25947	Thank you, colleague Macura. Of course, Mr Marijan Risticevic and Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic have the right, as well as all other MPs, to explain the amendments they have submitted. If the Legislative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia approves that they can be discussed...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25948	It's just that the Legislative Committee of this Assembly doesn't know that they put...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25949	... about the details. So, anyway, they have a right to that. I don't want to, I don't want to, I don't want to, I don't want to, I don't want to, I don't want to, I don't want to. People have the right to speak, and the National Assembly will declare whether the injured Rules of Procedure. Thanks for the suggestion. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25950	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, Article 103 paragraph 8. I hope we're all even. There's been a group of untrues here. The amendment of fellow Atlagic and mine is like this, not to read everything, but you have the text of that amendment. When, in this way, but without the whole text, the colleagues Pavicevic and Zivkovic added to the comma, it was great. When someone proposes to the entire law of 100 identical amendments, that's great. When we want to support the government and propose this kind of amendment, wanting us to say something, then we show up in our custody who say it's out of line with the Rules of Procedure. Given the abuse of the right to breach of the Rules of Procedure, I ask you to apply the provision of Article 103, paragraph 8, and that the MP group mentioned, since our amendments are quite fine, because of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, you take those two minutes, and as far as I'm concerned, I think that I did this time and how well it went, because sometimes this MP group, instead of advertising the Rules of Procedure, can come here to make a mess, can certainly curse a mother, and God knows they can spit, about which the previous speaker and how it has experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25951	I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. You don't want the National Assembly to come forward in voting day. Thank you. The word has been made by the MP Radoslav Milojic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25952	Thank you. I'm advertising Article 107 and Article 108. I asked in my previous advert to the Rules of Procedure if, as we have seen, you are allowing it to be the favorite MP of Alexander Vukic, Marijan Rističević, whether other MPs who are not the favorite MPs of Alexander Vukic, can speak beyond the subject of the agenda and when DS has the next amendment, that I am talking about thieving and stealing and destroying the SNS for these six years as long as they are in power. [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25953	My colleague Milojicic, I'm taking up your time for the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Orlic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25954	Article 104. I think there would be a lot of ground here for us to think about that use of the right to advertise Rules of Procedure for the needs of replicas. This is now a slightly more drastic example, Mr. Chairman, so I'm simply drawing attention, not to at all insisting that we vote on it, but to draw attention to the fact that when someone has a strong need to say something, try, so it doesn't work out, you remember, there was an attempt to advertise the Rules of Procedure an hour ago, just as cleverly as a moment ago, and then again, and then to use it to present some personal assessments on the subject of favorite MPs and so forth. What I can tell you on that subject, and I'm talking to you, I'm not using this for a replica, of course, that Alexander Vukic's favorite MP, Mr. Kenojcic. Every time he answers the word, it's such a beautiful and clear picture and the opportunity of the yellow company and the expertise and the mind and everything beautiful that can be seen and heard from their side, that there's no better example for us. If there's a need for us to exchange any other opinions here on any subject, including those various donations and donations, we can have these phenomenal examples, we can't wait, but we still try to stick to the debate as much as possible. If it can't be nice, let it be in the spirit of what Alexander Vukic's favorite MP, Mr Kenojčić, is the only one who can and can. We don't mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25955	Thank you, colleague Orlic. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? (No) I agree completely. Let's move on, let's continue the session. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) On behalf of the 8th Amendment, the MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted together. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You can't not allow a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I will not allow you to obstruct the session of the National Assembly. Is anyone answering for a word? (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a colleague named Tatjana Macura, please ensure that she speaks in accordance with her right. Here you go, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25956	Respected, the amendment to Article 8 concerned the supervision of the Agency's work and co-worker Stamenkovic pointed out several times that the Medical Devices Act itself was not written in accordance with the single methodological rules for the making of regulations. We would once again draw attention to her indignity, so let me repeat, because this is not just repeated in certain members, but almost all of it, and to point out that this failure has actually been made by the President of the Assembly. So she was obliged to note that this law, as the last instance to be checked over the bill coming to the Assembly, so to check what kind of bill entered into the Assembly and that if it did not agree or if something did not comply with the methodological rules, to return the bill to further completion. So she didn't do it, and in this amendment of ours, among other things, we are again suggesting that the President of the Assembly did not properly review the law that entered the assembly procedure and we propose that this law be withdrawn from the procedure, in order to send a law to the Assembly for discussion in accordance with the uniform methodological rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25957	Thank you, colleague Macura. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 8th amendment. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. (Radoslav Milojičić: You cannot allow a breach of the Rules of Procedure. They saw citizens in direct transmission holding my hand for ten minutes. I apologize to my colleague Risticevic, Mr. Milojic I will not allow you to create chaos at the session. I'm right, I'm in charge of the session. I don't want to argue this way, don't throw it away and don't make me warn you. (Radoslav Milojic: Free. ) Please, the debate was really correct during the day. Mr. Risticevic, please. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25958	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, despite the throw-off, I am resilient, and I will continue to speak. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Since this is about surveillance, this authorised representative of the Tuborg cannot distract me. So, regardless of the amount and size of the scream, no one here can distract me. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )It is a matter of supervision, you cannot calm down the authorised representative of the Tuborg, but in terms of supervision at the Agency, it is done by the ministry. (Radoslav Milojic: I have the right to harm the Rules of Procedure. ) I know that the ministry will not allow phenomena, and I will in practice explain how all of this was previously misused, so let's say, the famous Sremska Kamenica, so I will also point out the attempts of public procurement that have been repeated three times.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25959	I'm sorry to interrupt your colleague Risticevic. You have a warning, Mr. Milojich.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25960	You have to give me my time later.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25961	Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25962	So, I'll keep going. The Ministry of Surveillance must keep in mind that in the future, and I believe that it will not be, like when those of the former regime party ruled, that there will be no lines of four to six months due to lack of an radiation machine, where they have tried for years to obtain three times the value of a particular machine, and later for radiation, and later the Government of the Republic of Serbia obtained it, a medical tool for three times the price. That's why it's very important for surveillance to be carried out over these phenomena. Since those eggs would be stolen from the grave, it must be well kept in mind, by this law to predict it, for in the future, do not give God in one ten years, this government out of darkness and chaos, the government of the general people's doom led by the party of the former regime, God forbid it can return to power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25963	Thank you, colleague Risticevic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25964	Mr. Chairman, I am pleased that the citizens of Serbia have seen that for 15 minutes I hold my hand raised by advertising the Rules of Procedure. You, because you pretend you don't see it, should be ashamed of what you're doing. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25965	I'm taking up your time for misusing the Rules of Procedure. (Radoslav Milojic: Why did you take my word? Shame on you. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Milisavljevic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojičić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Maja Vidinović, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Stevanović and Tomislav Žigmanov. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25966	Dear citizens, I will talk about the amendment, as Mr. Chairman has allowed previous speakers, i.e. The speakers from the SNS, respecting the parity and speaking exactly as they spoke about the subject of the agenda and the amendment. The Serbian Progressive Party has destroyed everything it has touched in this country. They cut salaries, they destroyed health care, they cut pensions, they destroyed legal facilities... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25967	My fellow Milojits, I must take your word for it. (Radoslav Milojic: Why did you take my word? Why didn't you interrupt your previous speaker? What you're saying really doesn't matter and I don't understand why you're trying to cause chaos at the session when the session this morning... (Radoslav Milojic: Let me finish, I have two minutes per amendment. ) The debate is very correct. Thank you very much. I won't let you... (Radoslav Milojic: Let me explain, I have two minutes per amendment. ) Thank you very much, I don't want to, and I won't allow you absolutely. (Radoslav Milojic: I have two minutes per amendment. You can't let me and you can't not. Thank you. Okay, I'll run the session. Look at the Rules of Procedure, please. Let's move on. National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted the 8th amendment together. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25968	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, Article 8, as we've heard from one of the previous speakers, it's about surveillance. As the Ministry has control over the Agency, I'd like you to be the chairman of this session. Your supervision of this session will prove that way when you allow the agenda points to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25969	Thanks for the suggestion, Dr. Vesovic. I've been trying to do it all day and it's hard to go, but we'll be done, just like we've done so far. Thank you very much. On behalf of the 9th Amendment, MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) Col. Branka Stamenković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25970	Thank you. Here's another member of this bill and the amendment that we're trying to bring the text into line with the unique methodological rules for making regulations, so that citizens can see how literally it goes from member to member, that every member of this bill should almost do so. I just wanted to ask the legislator - who actually writes these laws? Do doctors who are part of a task force at the Ministry do that, or do translators write it first by translating those directives and then reviewing doctors? In that case, you can't blame yourself for what this is like. The question is: do lawyers at the Ministry ever look at it before it is sent to the National Assembly, or do we get the first draft or draft translated text or text that doctors within their working group have come to? There's a feeling the lawyers haven't even looked at this. If so, I would suggest that the minister send a legal team from the Ministry to a recently opened National Public Administration Academy, within which they should hear something about these unique methodological rules at some professional training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25971	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. The word has a folk emissary Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25972	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honors Minister, I've come to you by amendment. I must say, I support this argument by the government, and I believe that this amendment should be rejected. I must also say that the applicants of the amendment, which they themselves admitted at the beginning of today, at the beginning of the debate in particular, are practically submitting amendments that are actually prescribed members of the proposal, on the grounds that they want the whole text of the proposal to be refuted. Here we have heard the respect of some MPs of error, or the reasoning of technical amendments. SNS MPs are just doing their job. Those who are members of the Health Committee will probably be able to improve the proposal in a professional way, and the rest of us can do it technically. In that spirit, I'm going to show you what you're actually looking for by amendment. Therefore, the amendment says - the proposal for a medical law number seven in the name of Article 9 is deleted. We've absolutely heard nothing about it, and we can see that regular number six. - supervision of the Agency's work, standing above Article 8. The amendments are completely illogical, not constructive at all, and I absolutely agree that this amendment is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25973	Thank you. The word is Branka Stamenkovic. You want straight to the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25974	Thank you. I don't know what's going on with the ruling coalition's MPs today? I think your concentration is dropping. We are currently discussing the amendment to Article 9, not Article 8. That's it, just to distract my colleague. Chairman, perhaps you could draw attention to her to read the wrong member, as did a colleague of hers earlier. I would suggest that you all bring a laptop to the Assembly, open it up, play a role in the e-parliament system, it can be very well monitored on which member of the law we are currently on, and then you can allow yourself and your concentration to fall from time to time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25975	Thank you. Right on the line, Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25976	Base less important, but still only a dozen seconds. With gratitude for good recommendations, it would not be bad on the other hand to pay attention to the law on the agenda, which area, perhaps which is the day, and above all, as your country is called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25977	Thank you. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25978	Thank you, Chairman. In order to avoid confusion, I have read the materials perfectly, and I have not dropped my concentration, since we in the SNS are used to doing much more than some other MPs in the opposition. I'd just like to tell you, if you see, there's a regular number six - supervision of the Agency's work, and then it's article 8, and then it's a regular number seven - the appeal procedure in the administrative procedure. The regular number of seven amendments wanted to be removed from the bill. After all, not completely explaining the reasons why, but we even managed to hear the question from one of the MPs – and who is doing it in the Ministry on the bill, which is completely unmistakable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25979	Thank you. The word is Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25980	Thank you. I see it's not only that you don't have access to the e-parliament, so you can follow, but obviously you don't have this book that we got when we entered the National Assembly, where in the end, behind the Rules of Procedure, you have unique methodological rules for making regulations. In Article 24, as stated in my explanation, it is said, among other things – a member by rule has a name that is entered above the member's numerical code. What will say is that if Article 122 above writes - the subject of the law, and in Article 22 of the unique methodological rules, it is said that the head can be divided into sections and that the section is marked by the name and the corresponding Arabic number above the text of the section. As you can see, the number seven that I'm proposing here to delete is a surplus in the name of a member. The legislator assigned the members' names as if they were sections, and they were not sections, but members. I urge you, colleagues from the ruling coalition, to read the unique methodological rules for making the rules, which are more relevant to you in the light of my amendment, and that the next time there is no confusion about how the bill should be written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25981	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. The word has Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25982	Excellent remarks, ladies and gentlemen, I will certainly think about them as soon as I hear your country's name. Did you find out?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25983	Thank you. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25984	The Honorable Vice President of the National Assembly is that I didn't fall in concentration because I listened carefully to the Russian brothers here in this high house, and now we're moving on to Article 9. So this amendment to Article 9 states that the Agency's solutions can be appealed to the Ministry of Health, which is very well set up. However, the Ministry of Health during the former regime did not only take care of medical resources but also health care in general. That's why our health care was on the lowest scale in Europe. (Radoslav Milojic: Is this the theme of the amendment? ( ) Health was the most expensive and major mobster during their period. It's enough to mention an affair of vaccines, since it's a medical remedy against swine flu, when there was a massive theft of swine flu vaccines. Only imports of swine flu vaccines for 2009, the respected vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, were damaged by 1.16 billion euros. (Radoslav Milojic: Is this a theme? Shame on you! That's how the funds disappeared from the pockets of Serbian citizens. These unarticulated screams from the staff of the MP who damaged Smederevska Palanka by 474 million, please calm down while I speak. I must say further that, Mr. Minister, they have no basis for criticism coming from opposition MPs because in 2016, you have restored or built 140 health homes, so many previous and former regimes, that the government would not have built for 20.30 years, where luck would have been one. As for the concentration we've been told here, I must say that from this party called never enough, that on the side of their national envoy the other day on N1 CIA television, he called our esteemed president of the MP group Mr. Aleksandr Martinović, Dr. Vlad Orlic and my esteemed friend Marijan Risticevic, and I must say that he brought me to court as was strangled by MP Dveri, and that MP who spoke on N1 CIA TV was not in the hall that day, they are not the only lies, so they usually serve themselves with lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25985	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic, who is entitled to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25986	Mr. Chairman, I said a few sessions ago -- it's very interesting if someone was strangling someone when they were strangling him. I want this esteemed colleague who spoke before me at his serious age to have no fear, because as a doctor, I know it can have a bad effect on his health. I invite him to sit next to me, since he's already started to get that habit at special sessions and there's no reason to be afraid, he won't be strangled, as he wasn't strangled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25987	Thank you. Col. Stamenkovic, on what grounds do you want? (Branka Stamenkovic: Replica. Replica? No one mentioned you. Just a moment, please explain to me, no one mentioned you, not your political party, not your party leader.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25988	The political party, of course, did mention it. It was very clear who he was referring to.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25989	He didn't mention the MP's group. There was plenty of Mr. Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25990	You're going to insist on technicals, aren't you? Okay. In that case, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25991	By amendment, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25992	In my debate on the amendment, I would like to refer to the presentation of the previous speaker who spoke about his amendment and, speaking of his amendment to the score, he explained along and across, far and wide, something about the CIA, television and drowning. Since all of this has something to do with the Medical Assets Act and it's directly related to the amendment to the score he filed. In the same spirit, by discussing his amendment to the score, I would like to send from this speaker a message that we need free textbooks for all children in the secondary and primary schools of the Republic of Serbia and that the MP group has done enough to support this and after the Belgrade elections in the Belgrade case show that it is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25993	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25994	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment promoters have the advantage, but when it comes to ladies, I don't mind you. Concentration is a miracle. Someone's doing it with experience, like me, since I don't have Rosca, I don't have a Grisha, I don't have a ball to look at quickly, and I need to get my concentration back, and I have to study, and I have to catch something in the experience. This is about complaints, complaints about the Agency's solutions. Here, so they don't say I'm not in the amendment. This is a very good solution. After that, we also have an administrative dispute, it's another protection against irregularities. In practice, it looks like this. I wanted to complain a long time ago not only about these Vienna tariffs, the Karajords, the cafes, etc., those medical means, I wanted to complain about a far bigger one, please pay attention, to a far larger medical yellow musketeer, such as the bird flu, such as Kamenica 2, as it was the procurement of these links and I kept trying to appeal to Bojana Pajtic and some secretaries there. However, this famous speciality of the yellow medical musketeer did not allow me to use these funds provided for by this member, so that, for example, Kamenica 2, which was scheduled to be completed in 2009 or 2008 and cost 13.5 million, was eventually opened only after the change of government, and thus they spent over 30m euros, so three and a few times more than was planned. If I had these resources, I could have legally prevented that famous yellow medical muzzle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25995	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milosav Milojevic has the word. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25996	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable ministers, esteemed ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, at the very beginning I would like to support Mr Risticevic's amendments and Professor Atlagic's support for the government's work. In what way are we in local self-government in Arangelovac supporting the government's work I'd like to tell you in the follow-up of my presentation. In order for medical equipment to have an effective application there must be construction facilities, so my goal at today's meeting is primarily to highlight the importance of starting one of the biggest projects in the municipality of Arangelovac in the last few decades. The local self-government in co-operation with local businesses has recently begun a major campaign to rebuild and re-suscitate the health centre in Arangelovac worth several dozen million dinars with great help and understanding. The most important part of the investment in healthcare is certainly the rebuilding of the hospital and the construction of a completely new polyclinic department within the existing facility. All the biggest local businessmen participate in the realization of this project and that is what gives a special note to the topic we are talking about. The completion of the work on the construction of a general hospital of 800 square meters, which will have all the most modern specialist offices that exist in the hospital – internistic, urological, surgical, neurological department, diagnostic center, orthopedic cabinet, etc. Each department will have three separate rooms and have all necessary and modern working conditions. Also, we recently received some of the most modern medical aids from the Ministry of Health, such as an anesthesia machine, endo video, transport incubator and other apparatus that make our hospital much better equipped than years ago. On behalf of all health workers, I thank the Ministry of Health for the great help and understanding of patient problems and needs. Businesses from Arangelovac established a foundation some time ago and launched a major humanitarian action titled "Heart for the Future", which aims to raise funds for the reconstruction of the General Hospital. This action included almost all the businesses in Arangelovac, more than 30 companies and private companies that showed a high degree of social responsibility and care for the community. The total value of the works and projects that we will implement is about 43 million dinars, and the funds together give the Bekament Foundation and local self-government. The municipality of Arangelovac also allocates funds for artificial fertilisation for couples who have no opportunity to start a family and thus far, 14 babies have been born. Then we can really say that there are historical things happening in Arangelovac when investments in health care and patient care are at stake. From these examples of co-operation, mutual understanding of private individuals, local authorities, led by SNS, and competent state institutions, we recommend that we continue our strength to support the decisions and proposals made by the Ministry of Health and express confidence that the days of progress and improvements in the health sector are much ahead of us. We are aware that there are still a lot of problems to face, but the example of co-operation that I have cited can certainly be applied in other municipalities and cities and present a model of how socially responsible companies and local self-government should be connected to the general objective, such as taking care of all citizens and citizens in the area of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25997	Thank you, dear colleague Miloevich. National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 9th amendment. The word is Dr Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25998	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just about to talk to someone about the amendment that the Serbian Parliamental Group of the Dvora Movement submitted, but it doesn't make sense, since a respected colleague who spoke before me accepted Mr. Risticevic's and Atlagic's amendments, and since my amendment is identical to theirs, such a fine commendation to the amendment by the SNS is good for me. So I'll save time for better work of the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u25999	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Marian Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26000	Thank you. I appreciate that a number of colleagues support the amendments submitted by Mr Atlagic and myself. It says that in a conflict of ideas, I don't mind supporting or supporting a good solution. The point of parliamentaryism is that in this conversation in this high House, we come up with the best solutions in this way and not only the amendments of Mr Atlagic and myself are supported. It speaks of the quality of the ministry's work and the quality of this law. So, anyone who supported Mr Atlagic's amendments and I was also supported by a member of the law, part of the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I prefer to appreciate the efforts that a number of MPs from a single parliamentary group have made to support this. This amendment speaks of prevention. If this understanding were, there would be no provision, let's say in prevention, that epidemics could cause and dirty hands, say jaundice and prevention would be very important, if someone with such a type of hand produces milk in some "milk republic" and thus supplies KC Vojvodina, without a solution to the registration of the dairy, without prior control of raw materials, without the control of finished products, and when it is done by the person who launched that famous affair "aflatoxin", then we only now understand the importance of preventing it from happening in the future and therefore any support by colleagues is welcomed.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26001	National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 11th Amendment were submitted in the same text by the MPs... I'm sorry. I'm going back to the previous amendment. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, you weren't in the system, I didn't see you. I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26002	The Honorable Chairman, I answered, perhaps the system didn't record it. This article 10 is very important because it treats cases in emergency situations. We have witnessed that a negative picture of immunisation is being taken back a few years ago and about the very administration of vaccines, and I think that as a state, we have set out together to react against charlatans that spread the interference among Serbian citizens and cause serious harm to our children, as well as to the status of our nation's health. On several occasions and in the previous term, I was saying that there are several types of coups, that it is just one of the kinds of coups, a blow to our nation's health and to the health of our children, through very dangerous statements of individuals who meet fear among young parents, who are supposed to vaccinate at some point a child. On our part, a clear message must be sent, but it is also very important that the profession, i.e. pediatricians, doctors of general medicine and epidemiologists play their primary role in education, in talking to patients, in talking to parents to give the child a vaccine. I would take the opportunity, given that epidemics occur in the surrounding countries, and even in our Serbia, certain cases have been registered, that an appeal by pediatricians has been read to Serbia, which should be the subject of the media and that such statements are being read and that such statements are being sent to parents. Namely, Serbia's pediatricians held an annual meeting in Nis and took a unique view of children's vaccination, and it is very important that citizens know that pediatricians are aware of the fact of the irreplaceability and importance of vaccination in achieving the child's right to health, as well as the fact that immunisation is one of the most effective and effective measures of applying prevention and the most successful modern medical intervention. Serbia's pediatricians are consistent in pushing for the immunisation of children as part of their professional, ethical and legal obligations and are determined to persist in the ongoing struggle for immunisation, which they also committed themselves to by the conclusions of Serbia's Second Congress of Pediatricians in 2014, and the Round Table in 2015. Serbia's pediatricians are concerned about the strength of children's rates by compulsory vaccination in the last few years resulting in the occurrence of an epidemic of morbil, pertusis, parotitis, with an increased number of spontaneous diseases that can be prevented by vaccination and which take into account an unfavourable epidemiological situation in the immediate environment and wider Europe. Recognising the difficulties and problems that have existed in recent years and the immunisation process, it begins with a failure to plan through the untimely and incomplete security of vaccines, Serbia's pediatricians saying they support all measures advocated by professional and scientific institutions and organisations in the Council, by the World Health Organization, UNICEF, the International Association of Pediatricians, the European Association of Pediatricians, the Institute of Public Health "Milan Jovanovic Batut", the Serbian Doctor's Society, the Ministry of Health, with the aim of achieving and maintaining collective immunity of the population against infectious disease through immunisation. Serbia's pediatricians will actively act in achieving their child's right to health, promoting vaccination in daily educational work with parents and other target groups, to adopt scientific knowledge, to build proper attitudes and behaviours in relation to vaccination, to assist and the strength of a personal example, stressing the irreplaceable role of vaccination in the protection of children and the entire population. This memo by Serbia's pediatricians should be read practically once a week on national media, so that citizens who need to vaccinate a child have security and break those fears that individuals at one point have failed to respond to the profession itself and practically all of us and as states, create one space and create a chaos at a time when news that is interesting to some media, and not what is true, has ruled one fear that we must solve together just as this member treats, that prevention is done, and that in the event of an emergency situation, we know what our powers are. I think both paragraphs now go into the domain of the problem we have in Serbia with certain lobbies that promote antivaccinal attitudes. I'm fighting for freedom of speech and availability and the possibility that everyone is fighting for their own personal stand, but the presentation of medical untrues, especially from people who are not from the health profession, is inadmissible to me to create space in the national media, to allow opportunities for some charlatans to give very serious qualifications about something that is as a doctor and as a professor, I keep repeating, the immunisation of a civilizational good that helps our children to be healthier, safer and to live longer. I'd like so much for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26003	Thank you, Dr. Milisavljevic. The word is Branka Stamenkovic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26004	I thought I was talking about the Medical Assets Act and now I see that we can do a little wider, five minutes about vaccination and an antivaccinal lobby, if you've allowed it, the chairman, you'll have to let me do it too.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26005	Just don't talk about textbooks.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26006	I don't want to talk about textbooks. As a parent, we don't have representatives of parents in this House who may have some fears about vaccination, there's no one to say anything on their behalf. I think we need to do some public listening or survey committee to deal with this topic from all angles, but I think before we talk about the antivaccinal lobby, we need to talk about a lot of other things. Number one, I'm curious as a parent as to why in the last 10 years there has been an interruption in the supply of vaccines and for three months, five months, which you can read in the Institute of Public Health reports "Batut". Why are the recommendations of the Institute of Public Health "Batut" repeated since 2010, and the same recommendations are repeated over and over again in order for the coverage to be raised? Why are these prophets being ignored? The institution “Batut” says – vaccines should not be sold in pharmacies because there is a danger and risk of breaking that cold chain. It's from the report in the 2010 report on this one repeats itself. Vaccines only have to go through medical institutions. The Batut Institute says – we must not allow ourselves to lose the vaccine every year for three or five months. Please, the parent comes in for a regular physical checkup, the child can't be vaccinated if he's sick, he can only do it if he's healthy. So vaccinations are done during regular systematic examinations. A parent comes in -- yak, you know, we don't have vaccines right now. Well, well, what am I supposed to do now? You can buy at the pharmacy – but I didn’t bring the money – well, then come another time. She's going home. Is he coming back to vaccinate or not, question? Personally, I think the number of parents who are aggressive against vaccination is negligiblely small. I believe that it includes vaccines and not only the MMR vaccines, which is the most controversial, but also all the other vaccines, but also all the other vaccines then and because some of the things that the state can't do. She's late to call the tender, so the deliveries aren't about deadlines as the plan was made, but the tender have some other deadlines. You can read all of this in the recommendations of the Institute of Batut. Furthermore, there are parents who are concerned about the safety of the vaccine. Where do they come from? Are they going through all the procedures? Of course, the Drug Act when it comes to the agenda, when it is arranged as well as these medical means to comply with some European standards, may separate some doubts. But we're not going to achieve anything if all the blame for the fall in the vaccine is only on some parents who have a lot of questions, and they don't get answers. I remind you that the MMR vaccine is not controversial only in Serbia. She's controversial all over the world. We don't suffer from something other countries don't suffer from. At the American Congress, there was a public hearing on the subject. Please do not take all responsibility for your parents, and do not try to answer your parents and people who have some doubts and some fears to re-insult them, that they are uninstructed, but try to answer the questions they have and try to explain that you are diversifying fears and doubts by respecting the procedure, at some point before I don't know how many years ago, we have lost our vaccines, urgent imports have been made from somewhere, but since it was urgent that the procedure has not passed through the Agency for this, you have in the report of the Institute of Batut, I don't know exactly for a year, since 2010. I urge us to stop transferring responsibility to someone else. Let's first see what the state can do, stop the inoculation drop, and then when the state does everything it can do, only then can we talk about the anti-vaccinal lobby, as if someone who might be, maybe he's not responsible and to what extent he's responsible. What we're doing right now, we're just transferring responsibility instead of solving the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26007	Thank you, colleague Stamenkovic. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26008	I'm really surprised what you've told me in the last few minutes and how contradictory it is. I'll just try the facts. In your own way, you have combined the hill, nor have you said the period, neither when, nor anything, nor how. But it doesn't matter, we have to explain this for the citizens, to make it very clear. You're saying the problem was the vaccine shortage, not much education. We have a problem with little goddesses, which lasts a little less than a year ago, which came to us a few months ago. The fact is, we have enough vaccines all the time. They go out all the time, people who do this and explain why they need to be vaccinated, why they're wrong, people who say they shouldn't. And all people explain, lose their voice, spend all day, explain all night. So the state provided the vaccine. The vaccine's got enough. He says, "What's the safety of the vaccine?" You're putting it down to the state. Who knows what vaccines it has? First you need to know that you have two vaccine manufacturers and that the whole world buys from them. That's the basic thing to know. All vaccines have to go through the procedure, these vaccines, some historical fluids, they're supposed to bring that so far there are no little goddesses and all. So they have to carry out the procedure. They conducted the procedure, got enough vaccines, experts said what to do. We've changed the law, to raise awareness, to approach people, to have doctors explain to them, to explain to them that there's no fear of that vaccine, that there's no autism, that it's just a period of occurrence and it's been going on for months. Just one thing to explain. It's all done, and here we have it, it's come to Belgrade, and in the Kingdom and everywhere we have little goddesses, and it's still threatening us to enter a serious epidemic, and we have enough vaccines, and we've cleared it all up. Why aren't they being vaccinated now? Is it now the state that provided the vaccines, what she did, what she explained, why it's the state's fault now? The state tells you - people get into trouble if you don't vaccinate. What are we supposed to do, get people to arrest, then vaccinate them? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26009	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milovan Krikapic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26010	Do we want to make an amendment or should I say something about goddesses in two minutes? As far as goddesses are concerned, please, since I've been working at the Bureau, we don't get to Kim regularly, but five days, six days before, the cold mine chain has been getting to us regularly for eight degrees over the last five years, so I don't know where you get to say something like that. There's a regular vaccine coming into our office, and there's a distribution of all the health care facilities in KIM, for God's sakes save this, if someone told me, I wouldn't believe it. Lack says there's no vaccine. I don't know what else to say. As for the amendments, I don't think this amendment should be accepted, Article 13, because it achieves the same purpose as the proposal for a law on medical means, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You first said about the amendment, so you crossed over, I read on, please... All day long, the citizens of Serbia and we have heard the same story about the proposal for a medical law just to say something. In most cases, they turn the order of the sentence and it's not the neck, it's the neck. What the bishop Rade would say - people in their minds, this is about health care. Let us not use health care today that is truly on firm feet for other purposes. This law achieves the main objectives, so that medical resources, not to list other reasons, come to the market in 30 days and not 90 days, because we have a patient in the first place, and everything else. I don't think in most cases we need to give answers to the proposed amendments, because it's all about the same thing, unless the chairman lets the discussion go the other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26011	Thank you, colleague Krivokapic. The word is Sonja Pavlovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26012	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Article 106, is injured, where the speaker is talking about the subject we need to discuss today. First of all, it's not a member of the 13th, it's a matter of Article 10. We're discussing him right now. And to accept that, at least talk about Article 13, not talk about some general place, praises and underestimating all the other MPs who have given amendments, saying that we should not discuss any amendment at all, because the law is extraordinary. So it is our right to make these amendments and we want to discuss them, as the minister keeps saying, for the sake of the public, to explain to the citizens of Serbia why we believe that the law is wrong in certain members and leave us to discuss it freely. I ask you, Your Honor, to take care of this in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26013	Thank you. Do you want the Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Yes) Thank you. We're finishing the replica circle and moving on with the debate. Members of the 11th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Dr. Marko Atlagic answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26014	The esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly, here in Article 11, is said to be employed by the Agency and the Ministry of Health to keep all the information from the documentation attached to the application for registration of medical resources, especially if the data are classified. I have to say that this is well-set, however, the former regime in the Ministry of Health and the Agency did not keep secrets, or, if they did, they kept only certain secrets. For example, in the disability pension affair, during the former regime, there were 27% of disability pensions on total pensions, almost one third, and during the Serbian Progressive Party we reduced to 18%. So, for 500 thousand disability pensions, somewhere for 300 and something. During their regime, 23 PIO officials were arrested, along with doctors, etc. So it's about certain classified information that they kept only when there were certain affairs that served them to take money in their pocket. We are told that here, some MPs from the party, I think the party is called "The Door", that they have prescribed our amendments. They didn't just copy, they admitted, they even copied. From another party, "They've never had enough," a MP, a university professor, plagiarized the call. How? By handing over financial items, and he finished design, there's no funding at all. And he knew the day before yesterday on "N1"...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26015	Comrade Atlagic, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26016	Thank you, Vice President, I'm just answering the plagiarists and nothing else. The other day, on "N 1 CIA" the untrue data that MP gave, and the university professor, who is not here today, and he wasn't even there when the strangler was strangling me with a tie, was not in this home, but he knew at "N 1 CIA" that he was. That's what he says about his professorial dignity.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26017	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26018	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Article 11, of course, in which we support government solutions, is a very wonderful solution to some of the information that needs to be presented, which I don't think are secret. It's about a business secret. Namely, here it is said that I am lying about a "Milt Republic", and I am holding here, which provided the Duke's Milk Clinical Center. Imagine when the Vice-President of the Vojvodina Government supplies a milk emergency center and a clinical center, where the wife of the Prime Minister is employed. Is that a business secret? I don't think it's possible that this member is not prohibiting this kind of data from being presented on medical means. Here is a record that literally states that the work solution expired 41 days before the controls, that significant quantities were found. No documentation has been found in the facility to confirm that input raw materials analyses, raw milk, and in accordance with the applicable Regulation, it is not possible to establish that milk is being analysed for the presence of aflatoxins. That's what I said, and here's the solution here. We went one step further. Since it's not about the secret from Article 11, we've taken pictures of it. This is the famous ‘Milts Republic’. There is also a “Fruit Republic”. It's in hygienic conditions in the Markovina shed near Alexanderovec. From here, patients received food, milk, yogurt and so on. You can all make sure that it was in hygienic conditions and that it was the vice president of the duchy government, who was very eloquent for aflatoxin, that he produced and placed it on the market. So I believe it's not a secret from Article 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26019	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26020	Just for a short time, the chairman, that the proposed amendment should be rejected, because it is cosmetic corrections to some rather than to some constructive, fundamental proposals that would improve this text of the law, which is another confirmation that this law is good, because in the absence of arguments it resorts to such and similar amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26021	Thank you. On behalf of the 12th amendment, MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26022	Dear Ministers with associates, respected professors, colleagues and fellow MPs, I feel that this amendment is not acceptable because it does not essentially change this member. In particular, Article 12 specified that medical means must be harmonised and followed by appropriate compliance regulations, and that medical means, if the source of ionising radiation is the source, the conditions governing the protection of ionising radiation must be laid down. Also, as well as medical tools that are also machines, they must take care of health and safety and meet the specific conditions and requirements for the regulations adopted for its implementation. The purpose of medical means to be used as personal protective equipment must also meet the relevant basic requirements for personal protective equipment, such as, besides, in the Labour Health Safety Act, a very important emphasis on personal protection. In particular, I believe that this whole bill has fulfilled its purpose, which is all about patient safety and health protection, which shows that this government and the ministry are taking care of the nation's health, as well as the development of the Republic of Serbia's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26023	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26024	Thank you. I'm reporting for the amendment. I heard that the amendment we submitted was cosmetic, and I'd just say why are you looking for a thorn in your brother's eye, and you don't see a log in your own? The same amendment was submitted by counterpart Risticevic and counterpart Atlagic. So they're all cosmetics. That's what I've been talking about this whole session and I've been pushing for all these amendments to be withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26025	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Marijan Rističević has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26026	Thank you. I also thank my colleagues, who, by supporting our amendments, copying our amendments, actually support the government's position. We, by our amendment, Mr. Atlagic and I, have maintained the government's efforts to settle this area. I am grateful to every colleague, no matter what party he comes from, because he supports this law and supports the members of the law in particular. I don't have a problem with that. So, I am grateful to my colleagues, who have supported our amendment with their amendment, and we have appreciated the government's efforts together. This is about placing certain medical resources on the market. I have to remind you of the Verbas case, my colleague Becic is here, so he'll tell me if I'm right, if I'm wrong. But believe me, they've got documentation up there about it, too. Scanners in parts were left on the market. To get as much as possible, and to get it through small purchases, small purchases, as it's called, the former regime was taking the scanner in parts, so they made it happen in Vrbas, so it came out, mother of God so expensive. Also, they were buying obstetric tables, so our people knew. Here, my colleague Becic is here to correct me. The value of them is about 6,000 euros, as well as the ministry's gentlemen know, but those in Vrbas have been paid 28,000 euros. When they were placed on that market to strengthen all of this, then in 2008, Mr. Pajtic, if I'm not cheating on my colleague, came to Vrbas, dug up a bucket of land and opened up works on a new hospital block in Vrbas. Deadline, I think there's more board standing in Verbas, I've been passing recently, it was in 2012. Except for that dug-out can of land, no more work has been done, nor has been placed on the market, and we are now in a position to show everything the former regime has done, and we don't want to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26027	Thank you. National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 12th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Dr Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26028	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have no intention of copying anyone, we intend only to show that the ruling coalition is knowingly obstructing this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26029	Thank you. Members of the 13th and 13th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments in the same text were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26030	Dear Vice-President, this member speaks about what is meant by medical means and what basic requirements should be met, whether the requirements of Serbian standards or EU standards are concerned. If doctors had stuck to standards during the former regime, there would have been no affair in the trafficking of the deceased. It was the staff of the deceased and emergency doctor, and the price for reporting death during the party of the former regime was 300 euros. Emergency doctors deliberately let patients die to get a commission from a private funeral home. If you know this is one of the biggest health affairs known as "the affair of trade in undertakers". I am glad that some MPs from the opposition are copying our amendments. It would be good for them to copy and look up to us. The previous speaker would not be in the O.R. in front of his parliamentary group. The benches would be a little fuller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26031	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26032	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Guest, I thank you all once again... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26033	I'm sorry, there's something wrong with the system. If anyone in the department can come and try to fix it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26034	Can I go on? So, again, I don't know what you've heard, I want to thank all the MPs who have supported our amendment, who have proposed... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26035	I apologize to my colleague Risticevic. Hold on a second. I'm setting a five-minute break, just to fix it. [[after breaks]] We keep working, the system works again. Members of the 13th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26037	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just so you know, this system has been acquired by these mutibars from the party of the former regime. I think these parapsychological phenomena are affecting the system, but I have a rosary, so I'm a little resilient, but in the next session, just in case, I'll bring one red thread. Those balls, the cards, etcetera, the beans, and even if there's some black magic, a rooster, who knows what could happen. So this member is talking about meeting certain requirements, standards, etc. What's the standard we saw on the Werbbs case. So the gynaecological table, during the party of the former regime, instead of six thousand, cost 28 thousand. Interestingly, the godfather of high-ranking official Goran Jesic, was the health secretary, and his mother, they were against nepotism, was a deputy. It could then, nepotism on their part is not nepotism. Then the man moved to the Stonestone, and he began to make “Kamenica 2. ” The same godfather, those who object to the godmothers, and then the "Kamenica" instead of ending in 2008/2009, is only ended with changes in power. So it started working, it worked, but unfortunately, by then it cost four times as much. Then, meeting the standard of mammogram in India, which cost 5,800,000,00 dinars. It is that famous home of health that received all the Tomica Milosavljevic awards, in 2008 paid 5,800,000,00 and eight years did not work, nor met the standards prescribed by this member, because they simply did not know how to handle it. They only bought it for commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26038	Prof. Atlagic, you've already spoken under this amendment. You're not answering again? All right, we can move on. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26039	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, the amendment that we submitted to Article 13 of the Serbian Movement of the Dvora was not copied to be in the spirit of epic poetry, I would say the same thing just a little differently. Yes, I am at the moment, but I am not alone, and I am alone because the three MPs of the Serbian Dvora movement are excluded from the work of this assembly and I believe that in order to be effective in the work of this Parliament, all those who have submitted these amendments, and do not want to obstruct the work of the Assembly, should withdraw the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26040	Thank you, Dr. Vesovic. The word is Danica Bukvić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26041	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, in front of the SPS parliamentary group, I propose that this amendment be rejected, because, as we have heard from the proposal for this amendment, there is absolutely no better application of this law. I would just once again say that this law, which now singled out and in a special and unique way, regulates everything in the field of medical means, will contribute to the medical resources at our patients' disposal by all EU standards. In this way, the health care service that we health care professionals, through these means, will be at a higher level. Of course, the SPS parliamentary group will not vote for this amendment in the voting day, because, as I said, it absolutely does not affect the implementation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26042	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go, Doctor.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26043	The respected chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the 12th and 13th of this law, treat an important area for which the medical profession has an understanding. Now I speak truly as a doctor and what interests me is the safety of our patients, our citizens who come at some point into Serbia's health system, when they have some problem and when they need to be, or diagnosed by some disease, or to be operated, or afterwards to be rehabilitated. It is very important to make standardisation with European legislation and the quality of products that are valid in European countries. It's something that, to me as a doctor, there's no problem in saying that something is good when it's good, because it's good for our patients and it's good for healthcare professionals who work with these products. I witnessed in the 1990s, when I worked as a young doctor, that I met with material that didn't meet these standards at all, or had the safety to apply to our patients, from surgical threads to some antibiotics, to the very kind of medical apparatus that was used at that time. What I, as a doctor, want to send the Ministry a message, is that at a time when we don't have enough money, everyone looks at restrictions and savings to get a little more money in their budget, that as far as health is concerned, money must not be practical, a criterion of whether a device or a medical device will be bought, as it was in some years earlier, rather than buying quality, rather than entering into the purchase of certain medical resources that would only satisfy that we have them in number, without satisfying the safety to apply to our patients. That is why I say as a doctor, I stress the importance of Articles 12 and 13 of this Law, which obliges importers to have a standardised, practical standardisation certificate according to EU standards. It means that this quality is valued and that this quality, practically this product, or medical means, can be placed in Serbia, as it is placed in European countries as well. These proposals, practically, our citizens have security as citizens, patients in European countries, which is very important to me as a doctor. The message is that the price is not put first when medical supplies and medical preparations are needed, but to be quality. These members of the law are just rejecting one practice which has been in years earlier, and imposes another rule, which is that the most qualitative, practically, products will be taken. At least that's how I understood this member of the law, which is why I commended him. I don't know if that's the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26044	Thank you. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26045	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the amendment itself shows that it is about correcting a mistake that applies to this rather than to the one, using the same word in the plural, which is also logical when you look at the context of the sentence. I will take the opportunity to thank the Minister just for the government's opinion that this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26046	On behalf of the 14th amendment, MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 14 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Marijan Rističević, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26047	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honored Chairman, Mr Minister, the esteemed guests, therefore, are members of Article 14, which regulates the technical requirements and products and assesses the compliance of the regulations adopted for its implementation. As Pajtic and Jesic evaluated it, it is a miracle. So, I, Bojan Pajtic, as Prime Minister, propose that Dragan Draskovic, who begins to evaluate, agrees by placing politically similar people on the commission, and then allowing my internal regulation that pharmacists can pay 800 euros each to members of the commission, which he has appointed, monthly and thus legalises corruption. Bojan Pajtic suggests Dragan Draskovic, who did this, and then Dragan Draskovic, something sounds familiar to me, suggests Vesna Pajtic Bolidovski, regardless of having the academic calling that was needed, to be director of the Emergency Centre. Then, for harmony, Aca Diagonal, who did the work, so-called. Aca Diagonal, works that, place 15 million, eventually ended up with 40 million at the Clinical Center and the Emergency Center. Then, for the sake of reconciliation, the gate at the Emergency Centre was the same as the house of Dragan Draskovic, which I was already talking about, which was set up by Bojan Pajtic and to whom the republican prosecutor Zagorka Dolovac is the aunt. So they ended this harmony and that circle, and nobody got anything for 108 public procurements and nothing against the law and nobody for two spent billions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26048	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Milan Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Dr Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26049	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Tomorrow is St. Archangel Michael, one of the greatest glory of the Serb tribe, so I call on all those who consciously or unconsciously are obstructing parliament to stop it, so that many of the MPs can celebrate tomorrow in peace. On the other hand, we got a clear sign earlier when one of the amendment's proposings explained the amendment when the system fell. When "No Smoking" played somewhere in Pula, the marshal died, I mean the sound, and today the system fell as a clear sign that amendments should be withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26050	The system fell to a very short period when counterpart Natasa Jovanovic arrived. Members of the 15th and 15th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. The word is Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26051	Thank you. Article 15 is the most cleverly written member in this bill. Let's explain why. In paragraph 12, the conditions of the authorised body referred to in Article 8, but in paragraph 8, there are absolutely no conditions of the authorised body, but the same member deals with the obligations of the manufacturer. What is more, there is not one single position in this entire article that lists the conditions that need to be met. Also, attitude 12 prescribes the removal of the solution from Article 9, but the attitude 9 does not mention an absolute solution. In paragraphs 13 to 15, the solution set out in Article 10 is mentioned, and there is no solution in attitude 10. So here you can see with which attention and concentration the billmaker wrote this law. You can see what I doubt, which is that the lawyers didn't look at this after it was translated from an English language or after the doctors here made some adjustments after the first draft. Obviously there was a first draft, where there were all these things right, and then someone came and changed something, but he forgot to change absolutely everything, which was, after all, needed in the last review of the text by someone to look at. Imagine, if he had left and we had passed the law with this, what amount of chaos would have caused this in practice. This is just one kind of problem that this article 15 is suffering from. Also, in attitude 6, we have English words -- common specifications, and in attitude 4, we have an English abbreviations EEA, which is abbreviations for the European economic area. It is completely incomprehensible that the translator, first of all, did not translate this into an EEZ – European Economic Area, because we absolutely have a fixed EEA shortcut. In addition, of course, we have compliance with the unique methodological rules for making regulations. So I've turned my attention to this and to the board and suggested that we fix this somehow with a committee amendment. We don't know what the writer was going to say, so we don't know how to write the amendment, which way. Is there supposed to be a solution or should there be no solution? I hope honestly that it has been done or that one of the colleagues who are from the profession, who have fellow MPs, has submitted some amendment that can correct this big mess about the schedule of these positions within the members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26052	Thank you. Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26053	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Marinkovic, Mr. Ministers with Associates, Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen MPs, Mr. Aleksandre Martinovic, I address you for the first time tonight, because you are the only representative of political parties, or groups in this high house, which speaks of your dedicated work and responsibility for the work that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have chosen us for. Let me move on to the amendment now. It refers to an assessment of compliance in accordance with the basic requirements before placing it on the market. It's done, ladies and gentlemen, by a manufacturer or by a body of conformity assessment. However, I must say here, if the rules of the former regime had been respected, there would not be an affair in the trade of waiting lists during the former regime at the Institute of Oncology in Sremska Kamenica. You know, respected citizens, what was going on there? The list has moved for a large sum of the euro, 4000 per patient. Because of the abuse of the waiting list, as many as a hundred people died, and the advantage was given to people from abroad. That was 2005 to 2008. With the arrival of the SNS headed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Mr. Minister, Dr. Loncar, this has been stopped. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26054	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26055	Thank you. I will thank Mr. Komlenski, who is also present here by the heads of the parliamentary groups. I, as his deputy, my shortness, am here all the time. Ladies and gentlemen Members of the Parliament, Article 15 speaks about the procedure of the assessment of conformity, of the documentation, etc. Mr. Atlagic spoke of the lines that were in Kamenica in oncology, whose boss was Jesic's best man. So, during the rule of the godfather. It's not nepotism, mother deputy godfather, godfather, then a little godfather in Kamenica. There's no nepotism there, it's all in harmony with them, everything at the end, there's known how much of their share, but there's been a bad assessment between them. That's why it is the order, Mr. Atlagic, or, Mr. Chairman, to tell Mr. Atlagic that the order in Kamenica has increased because public procurement for the purchase of an air machine has been dropped three times, the minister certainly knows that the prices were too high, but they had two producers. They were both expensive, but they argued between themselves which offer to accept, that is, whose pocket in that yellow medical musketeer was too much, so their lives were not important to them either. That's why there were shops in these places, because the radiation line was four months, and sometimes six. The patients were taken to Kladovo, Mr. Minister remembers it anyway. So whoever wanted to survive, had to pay, and those others came to the order of radiation—if you survive, come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26056	Thank you. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Tomislav Žigmanov and Veroljub Stevanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The word is Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26057	Members of the Democratic Party MPs have submitted this amendment on the proposed amendment, however, is a technical amendment, but it is in line with Directive 93/42 of the European Commission. What I can say for Article 15, he is also a very important member of this law, but one dilemma where the procedure of compliance with other requirements is assessed depending on the class of risk of medical means and where virtually the companies importing a particular medical agent are. the manufacturer, who is obliged to choose an evaluation body in the EU Member State, if the notified body, or in the Republic of Serbia has the authority. This is one shift in our legislation, but yet I express my suspicion and need for even greater control by and agency, but also by the ministry itself. A few days ago, I brought the same information here in a plenary session, i.e. my position, that in the previous term, when the Law on the Ministry of Agriculture changed and when control at border crossings by the Ministry of Health was transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture, which was allowed to control the import of many things, including food, food security, I have made public and repeat, and now I think that it would be better to do so by our institutes of public health and our authorised laboratories, and specifically by this member of the law to make even more stringent control, that the ministry still has some possibility, the jurisdiction to control any imports of these medical funds entering our country. In the afternoon, we heard from lawmakers who were not much to join the EU that some products were less quality for the Eastern European market. This has proved to be true regarding certain food products and certain technical products. That is why, in the desire, and only in the desire for our citizens to have safe treatment, I believe it is necessary to have even more stringent control than the resolution ministry, as well as the agency that checks the quality and safety of these medical resources entering our country. I'm done. The proposal and colleagues to the MPs and the Ministry of Health itself – do we think it is better to return the health department's information for the control of food safety and all other agricultural products that enter Serbia, because agricultural products are agricultural products and this is what the Ministry of Agriculture needs to control, but when cattle become food, I think that the safety should still be returned to the Ministry of Health and to public health institutes that have extremely good laboratories, an extremely good fit. I'm from Nis. The laboratory at the Institute of Public Health Nis has accreditation from Graz and all checks carried out in Nis in that laboratory of the Institute of Public Health can be placed on the territory of EU countries, which shows the seriousness of our public health institutes and shows perhaps the need to change the laws and restore the health department's authority to control food products and everything else, not just to be responsible for food for babies and water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26058	Thank you. National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 15th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26059	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In order to speed up the work on this tide, I will use my right not to explain the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26060	Thank you. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is by the MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26061	Thank you. For the Club of Independent Members, Article 15 is a sublime of all the negativity of this law. Actually, he's a little sample that we can estimate the law by. So, one completely brown law, vague, quite confusing and needlessly complicated, as is this article we're talking about. There's something characteristic about this article, and it's running away from responsibility. You see, we have the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, one of the 173 employees plus 10% of the Agency's needs, and then we have a new body for harmonising the medical means, and then we have a Chamber of Commerce, which suddenly runs out, and it's like keeping electronic records of authorized bodies in the field of medical resources, establishing and maintaining Serbia's Chamber of Commerce as a trusted job. At the top of this entire pyramid I was talking about is the Ministry. So, Mr. Minister, I'm asking you next. Explain to the citizens of Serbia, explain to us, because we are MPs, not citizens, so we need an explanation, too, from where suddenly the Chamber of Commerce is here. I'll do it again. So we have the Ministry, we have the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, we have the body to match the medical means, and suddenly, behold, miracles, the Chamber of Commerce runs out as an interesting organization. Why, for example, wouldn't that record be run by an agency that's such a big, bulky machine, which has 173 employees, with the possibility of an increase of 10% in need? We have a new e-business law. So it's totally legal. A new e-business law, a record-keeping agency, not the Chamber of Commerce, which not only entered here, but also entered the Law of Education, behold, miracles, everywhere. Thank you. I'd like to ask you for the most beautiful answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26062	Thank you. The word has a minister, Dr. Zlatibor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26063	Just that you wanted to read, extremely simply, the Chamber of Commerce is involved here for two reasons. The first and the main reason – she is the only one who has a register of businessmen and those who participate in this process covered by this law. At one point, she took it upon herself to organise public debates in order to make this more transparent, so that everyone would get involved to have everyone give their opinion. So much for being vague or anything. Come back, look, with this law everyone who resists and touches this law has given consent, participated in public debates and in all that was necessary to obtain such a law. Of course, I understand that it doesn't suit you here and that you have to find something, but the facts are quite different. (Sonja Pavlovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26064	You have no right to a replica. By amendment, MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26065	Mr. Minister, I don't even know which way to tell us "that you wanted to read", "you didn't read". I read very well everything, but I still don't see the reason why the Chamber of Commerce is because it was involved in public debates and everything and took responsibility, so what? Rewarded. She was rewarded for it. I know the Chamber of Commerce has a register of economic operators, that's the basic part of the business and the reason it exists, but I don't really see why it couldn't be an agency, it would be completely normal for me, not rewarding the Chamber of Commerce for participating. So reward all the other actors. Or maybe it was done, I don't know, because there are so many members in this whole law that are very active. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26066	Mr. Lonchart has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26067	I don't know what you have so much, what's wrong with the Chamber of Commerce, but that's one reason, which is to simplify, if they already have a register that we don't transfer that register to someone else when there's already been, and we don't make a double deal, there's no financial transaction, and none of it's going to pay, it's done without any cash compensation, their database is used to keep it from moving to another place and not to complicate, to simplify to those people who participate in this and who are waiting for this to be realized.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26068	According to the amendment, MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26069	Well, we haven't simplified as soon as we have this many bodies, powerful agencies, so then we have a matching body, so, look, miracles instead of manufacturers, we have an authorised representative of the manufacturer. So, if you wanted to round up the continent, it was supposed to be surrounded by professional bodies, be it a drug and medical agency, and there's no reason to spread it to the Chamber of Commerce, which didn't mind me. I'm also a businessman, but it has nothing to do with our work here. So we're not defending the agency, we don't want to attack it, but we don't think it belongs to her in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26070	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26071	Short just around the Chamber of Commerce. In the previous term, we changed the Law on Chambers of Commerce and we did, I voted against that law because my Nis and the Niš, the thermal and pyrotical district had lost their powers in the Chamber of Commerce and it was all centralized in one place, and I also said in the morning session that I was a proponent of decentralisation, except for centralization in the need of medical execution of tenders and other procurement of medical resources. As far as the Chamber of Commerce is concerned, I have promised whenever the Chamber of Commerce is mentioned that I will report to you and say that the rights, the Nis' authority, my Nislims, the Nislims, the warm and pyrotic district, where they have jurisdiction in their Chamber of Commerce, are unwarranted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26072	Thank you. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Muamer Bacevac. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 16th and 16th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want to say that? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26073	Thank you. Here, from the beginning we urge that this and this bill be withdrawn from the procedure, that all errors, inconsistencies and ambiguities from it be made clear, that it be improved, that it should then come back to the Assembly, and now as we defend and explain the amendments that the lawmaker has all refused in the same way, we can practically only illustrate to the citizens of Serbia what has come into the National Assembly. In this Article of the 16th where the story of an external sign of conformity is introduced, we have a situation that the legislator or the one who has already written the law has simply entered in the text the sign “CE” in the Latin letter, and that nowhere has it explained that it is a Latin letter, but in the middle of a Cyrillic letter in the text of the amendment, suddenly the letters “C and E” appear on the Latin and, of course, which layman, who is not from the profession, and who is reading the law, and I guess we bring it to all citizens, not just for the profession, when he reads that text on Cyrillic, will read that sign as SE, and not as “CE” because he can't imagine that it's Latin. I added one position to the amendment – the foreign voice of consistency consists of the letter ‘C and E’ written in a Latin letter, in the following text SE sign, with the SE on the Latin, and the rest written with the Cyrillic. For reasons unknown to me, the legislator rejected this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26074	The word is made by Minister Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26075	It's just luck that citizens understand this law well, and not only this law, but all the laws that have been passed here lately and that they can very well assess who cares about the law here, who cares about the patients, who cares about the system, who cares about the time and the appearance here for the sake of order to appear because I haven't heard a thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26076	By amendment, MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26077	I can see that the legislator doesn't understand the essence. The point is that you disrespect the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If you can send this dirty and dirty law to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that means you don't have a shred of respect for the body that chose you... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26078	My colleague Stamenkovic, I beg you by amendment you have received your word. You didn't mention the amendment at all. You were talking about the law being dirty, that the minister doesn't know what he's doing, etc. (Branka Stamenkovic: The amendment refers to a dirty member, a dirty law. What? The dirty law applies to the amendment? (Branka Stamenkovic: On a dirty member of the law) Someone here has messed up something. (Branka Stamenkovic: Do you want me to repeat? Have you listened to what I'm saying? Someone messed up, but I doubt he's in the law. I understood perfectly what you said. I've been listening great. Ask for a word, if you like. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26079	I explained my amendment to my colleague Arsic, after which the minister applied for the word and introduced the essence into conversation, accused me of not dealing with the essence of my amendment. I now explain why my amendment deals with the essence. My amendment is a criticism of the depraved way in which, with disrespect, the Government of the Republic of Serbia sends bill proposals to the National Assembly without having previously read them humanely at least three times and lawyers have checked that everything is in accordance with the uniform methodological rules for the making of rules. It is a sign of disrespect for the National Assembly tasked with controlling this government and its work, the government thus resists and prevents MPs from carrying out what they are chosen to do in this assembly, which is to control the government's work. The opposition's job is to get used to criticizing the government, not because it's her whim, but to make citizens profit from that dynamic. If we still had enough hearing to accept constructive criticism, where our end would be and how much better our laws would be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26080	First, the right to the replica of MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26081	Just on the subject of this mess and this disrespect, if we're going to talk about it at that level, ladies and gentlemen, each and every one of us is going to start by himself first. Several times today, we've called for it to be applied. Is that right? Is respect and a good example of the absence of tampering when the MP can't even address the National Assembly fairly without making a mistake or without messing up, is that what it was? Is he referring to the National Assembly by sending her an amendment, heading to the Republic’s tail. What's your country's name? Has it been established in the meantime? And those who talk all day today about a free book for their own needs, and I suppose you mean this book, Mr. Chairman, which they also raised today. Looks like they're used to studying books from the back. We were dealing with unique methodological rules at the very end of this book, and apparently missed what was at its beginning. At first there is the Constitution, and in the title of this Constitution, if not elsewhere, and at least it is convenient, they could read what is called the state they refer to without wronging its name. It may also help them to use the National Assembly, whose dignity they are deeply concerned about and are appalled and appalled by some malices, to refer to it in the right way. I guess that's the elemental minimum of any communication we're talking about here, even that mess we're talking about. To begin with, this doesn't happen, and when it happens for an apology to be sent to everyone here, then we can talk about anything else, on this and on any other subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26082	Right on line, Minister, Mr. Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26083	I must say, as far as the respect of the National Assembly and your respected citizens of Serbia are concerned, I have great respect for the Assembly. I think you can see that. I'm here all the time, and I listen very carefully, and I try to see that there's some misunderstanding to explain. It's okay who's not from that profession that can't know all the details and help and clarify and know what's going on, but because of the citizens of Serbia, I have to say that when a law is passed, everyone who's focused on that law is involved in it tomorrow. In particular, for this law, everyone is absolutely respected and included and absolutely everyone has given consent to this law, and most important of all, there has been a public debate where everyone has participated, whether or not they had the right to say what they disagree with and what they would like to change. But to you and the people of Serbia, I must say that in this public debate, those who are now saying what they are saying did not say one word bad about this law. Did they not say that because cameras were not included at the time or for some other reason, you can judge whether they were created to have any regrets or the point is that you hear them, to see them, that they say something, and what with the law and with all those who participated in this has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26084	Thank you. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's MP Sonja Pavlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26085	Thank you. Lately, we have been witnessing various laws in which we agree with EU rules, signing various conventions with the EU, but the implementation of all these, above all in the legislation is very bad, even insufficient and very slow. We have before us a law where, in the light of the law, we have accepted all EU regulations, which are relied on by the legislator. However, if we have accepted them, should we not also accept foreign compliance documents, i.e. a certificate of the famous "SE" sign. Why is it so, we really don't understand it, except that the Agency can, based on some taxis to get for itself an unwarranted benefit in its own but also such a monopolitical position. As you explained this law of the Minister, you said it was because of it, correct me if I heard anything, to avoid the possibility of counterfeiting. What kind of forgeries do I really not understand? There, you can explain that to me. So, if this alignment is done ino credentials with our home IDs, how long does it take? I see that it is carried out in the process of registering a medical agent that, for as long as 30 days of compliance should be registered, and how long has the time not been found at all, can this compliance last with our regulations? That's what I'm asking you to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26086	Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Zlatibor Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26087	I really don't know how many, whether you've been here or not, but we've listed it here, and I can give it to you when, when the controls were made, how many products were found that weren't of adequate quality, and I'm going to deliver you very quickly all those percentages to see. More than 80% of the exams, of what came to us, which from the EU did not meet the standards and could not pass. I think it's already the sparrows on the branch and everyone's clear what we're doing, what we've had, what we've found, what the analyses were when we did, I really can't believe that part is not clear to you and from which producer and from which and from which. (Sonja Pavlovic: What do you do for a living? I have to make amends because we talked about it. It's expected of you, if I respect you, and that's a lot, that if you want to ask a question, at least you could see if we talked about it and what we said about it or if it's written. That's exactly what I was talking about when I explained all the percentages, how much, what, what we found, and what about this law when this law can't happen anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26088	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26089	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 16 speaks of foreign documents and certificates. If the former regime had fallen before, we would have had the situation we had in the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Those who write those texts in "Kuru" to let them know that... We take workers, but when they tell me I'm a peasant, I am, they need to know that we have the right to one representative. In the context of the association's circumstances, they decided it was me, I wasn't the government's proposal. Just so much about the truth, so the next time you order it, you know you order a little more precisely, but you had 21 members of the Management Board and you had a supervisory board of seven, we united the purchases and saved millions of dollars, tens of millions of euros, 24 innovative drugs. So, for the same money, you got a little or a lot less, given that your installation was more than a certificate. If this government were, you wouldn't be importing a scanner in parts of the Vrbas, you wouldn't be in India getting a mammogram that nobody has to see, and the women are coming there because of breast cancer, but you've got some diplomats there from Tomica Milisavljevic. It wouldn't have happened if a mammographer who reads for eight years, only when the changes in Vojvodina in India followed the mammogram worked, but you were having lunches. So 300 lunches at once, and that bar takes 80 people. There's nothing clear to me about your certificates and your IDs. Thank you. The word has a minister, Mr. Zlatibor Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26090	As long as we don't stay out of the loop. I'm talking, or I'm going to tell you the exact numbers, but they're already gone, it doesn't matter, because of the citizens of Serbia, as much as they care about. Out of the total number of 96 reports of suspicions of the quality of medical resources originating from funds outside the EU, 70% of the cases experienced a withdrawal of medical resources from the market. Of the total number of medicinal products withdrawn, i.e. placed on the market of the Republic of Serbia, which were identified as a quality defect, 95.7% were originating in non-EU countries. In the first two years of application of this law, a reduction in the number of withdrawals of medical resources from the market is expected for a 50% deficit, given the obligation to assess the compliance of these products with regulations and basic requirements that are identical to those of the EU market.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26091	Thank you. National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26092	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 16 is replaced by the following: I don't think this is about bullshit, although it's a matter that exists in Serbian and anyone can experience it. I don't think he's showing disrespect, because he's really been sitting with us all this time and he's having a discussion, but what's this all about? This law will also be used by people who are not men of the profession, who do not need to know anything about it, and now that we look at one member, that is Article 16, which is thank God in accordance with the Constitution, where it says that the language is Serbian, and the letter is Cyrillic, we get that SE sign. An ordinary man doesn't need to know that it's not SE, it's CE. I've been discussing the discussion in the tide and I know what it means and even by automation when I read the article as a CE, because I know what it means, but if it takes a man who has no idea what that sign of harmony means, he can read it further in the SE sign, because there's not a single word or English coin in this article that I just complained about. Maybe you really need to look at the technical correction to put it on or on Cyrillic, then at the Latin CE brackets. He can make a mistake. It's not such an ominous remark. Here, take a look for yourself. I think there's room to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26093	Thank you. On behalf of the 17th Amendment, MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Altagic and Marijan Rističević submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26094	Dear Vice-President Arsic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 17 speaks about when a medical agent can be placed on the market, or in use, so it is said only if it has a mark, as said the previous speaker, SE. I must say, the former regime has been supplying medical supplies frequently and without those markings. They also had many affairs that I was talking about today, and I prepared an affair for each amendment, and in the context of this amendment, the Jucit affair with the purchase of 45 ambulances. Vehicles were paid for in advance, and they weren't delivered. You know very well, Your Honor, that the investigation was conducted against five persons of the Ministry of Health at the time of the former regime, etc. So, I have to say, during their regime, health care was the most expensive and major mobster. Therefore, I support this member of the law because the government of the Republic of Serbia considers it to have done the right thing about this member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26095	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26096	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the President-in-Office, the objective of this amendment was to strengthen the government's proposal, to confirm with this amendment the solution proposed by the Government, for the simple reason that we think that in this area, too, there should finally be order, that the state should be promoted, as we farmers regulate our own ownership and that the quality of services should be pursued towards the quality of services in modern developed countries. All of these labels, all of these medical supplies, all of these regulations can lead to many patients being treated here for significantly cheaper health services tomorrow, and the gamma knife is proof of that instead of going abroad. That's one thing. This brings additional gross domestic product to the services, and another good purpose of this marking and standardisation is that through a good service good medical means the conditions are obtained that the patient from abroad, especially from the environment, use the medical services that our healthcare professionals can provide them, since these services are significantly cheaper. I think we can get extra income in that, too. So, when patients go abroad, they get extra income, and we get even more income by attracting, and already a certain number of patients from abroad are being treated with us. Thanks to this standardisation, I believe that this number of patients will grow and that this way we will create additional revenues, which is the goal of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26097	Thank you. National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 17th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the 18th Amendment, MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26098	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the objective and this amendment is to support the Government of the Republic of Serbia to confirm the solution that is in this article, and we have not kept it a secret at any moment, nor have I, I have proposed a little more amendments, except for the government's support and their proposal. The other thing was that we would no longer allow those who were several times worse than us, that those others, and that was the merger of the robbery regime, the former regime party and the bankruptcy directors, not to allow us to listen to their accusations, and we cannot respond as was the case a few days ago when we set the agenda. So with my amendment, I always want to confirm that solution that the government has proposed, and I respect all other colleagues who propose similar amendments, and I believe that our citizens will assess between this government and the previous if we describe to them the next situation that has long been ruled by the former regime by a dead race in these medical means. One of them used 300 lunches, and one of them used a nightgown. What was it, Mr. Atlagic? A mammal from the Wojbovac. They used beer. In the dead race, Smederovska Palanka won by 25 beers in medical means compared to the medical assets of the former regime's other part of the party, which in the 80-seat pub managed to kill 300 burgers, Vienna steaks, etc. The difference between this government and the government of the former regime, the governments of universal destruction, citizens see it greatly, and therefore the results of the elections are what they are to our happiness and to the misfortune of the party of the former regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26099	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26100	I thank the chairman. It is a technical amendment that has not been accepted this time, and we are a group of MPs who have submitted this amendment, in which I myself have been of the opinion that this formulation, or a proposal for a formulation, is better. But we won't insist on it. So I fully agree with the minister's explanation, or the government's opinion that we had the opportunity to see. I want to repeat because of the citizens of Serbia that we in the SNS are not making a political story out of these technical amendments, we do not want to profit, we do not want to abuse the Rules of Procedure on this basis, but only to make the law, if possible, as best as possible. I thank you anyway for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26101	National MPs Jelena Vujic Obradovic, Marija Jevdić, Djordje Kosanić, Petar Petrovic and Vojislav Vujic together submitted the 18th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 19th Amendment were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26102	The Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, this member speaks of the medical means intended for a clinical trial and medical means produced by order for a particular patient must follow a specific statement from the manufacturer of a special purpose, so that there is no abuse or affair, such as the former regime created the affairs that followed them. For example, an affair over the reconstruction of the Clinical Centre of Serbia, where a number of millions of euros were spent and evaporated during their regime, and now, by the arrival of the Serbian Progressive Party, it was placed in place. What I must say is that intelligence circles from the European Union and its institutions claim that with the help and full consent and support of Boris Tadic from the Serb health funds evaporated during his term of office several billion euros. According to Serbian clinics, with the help of Tomica Milosavljevic, experiments were carried out on Serbian patients and pharmacies examined their problematic medicines, paying Serbian doctors up to 1,500 euros, and they forced sick citizens to take these medicines in some way. It is one of the affairs that has shaken not only Serbia but as you can see, they have been surprised by these affairs and by the representatives of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26103	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26104	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, funds for clinical trials, fair exposure, interesting information that is necessary for the safe use of medical means, that is most important. I, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, believe that this law is good, that this provision is a good solution in this article, and therefore we have proposed this amendment, to confirm what possibly other colleagues would deny. I'm glad there are similar amendments, which is why the government of the Republic of Serbia's support is growing, and sometimes to my surprise. The safe use is the one that Gilas will no longer influence. So, everyone who followed the health care unit knows that what was in Belgrade was a means of subscribing. So, when someone conditioned a coalition with certain places in pharmaceuticals and health care, then there was the arrest of those other personnel and in order for Gilas to preserve his authority, he determined the medicine of his authority, his survival, and then there was the arrest of a lot of healthcare professionals and doctors, in order to enable the position of a coalition partner who had this information on security, etc. He used plenty to fill his pockets not only of the coalition partner, but, on the other end, let's say, on the bridge on Ada, which was built without permission, and Mr. Gilas fat-filled his pockets, takes over the party, etc. So medical resources are no longer the means by which coalition partners will settle, which was the case during the rule of the former regime's party and their government's general failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26105	Thank you. Parliamentarians Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26106	Thank you. Since the three people's MPs of the Serbian Dvori Movement have been excluded for 20 days from the work of the tide, and this amendment will have to be explained by me. I don't see that the Ada Bridge has anything to do with medical means, but one other thing scares me, which I hear for the third time, which I have no information about, that during the time of the minister in the former government, experiments have been made on Serbian patients. We've heard that one or three times before. These are very serious, let me say, and the charges, so I ask all those who know that such a thing has been done, to report the persons who participated in these unholy acts to be processed. To do experiments on the people of the Republic of Serbia is something that must be punishable by the law of the Republic of Serbia and something that must never happen. If that is true, and for the third time we hear it, without any responsibility, understanding the freedom of speech that every MP has, is something that must be investigated. Otherwise, I believe that in order to speed up the work of the tide, all those who, by their cosmetic changes, want to support the government and support the work of the country's largest legislative body, need their amendments to withdraw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26107	Thank you. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26108	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I agree with the previous speaker, who has drawn your attention as chairman, and also to the people of the Ministry of Health, that there are some things that are very, very, very, very, very, three times I will repeat, serious. In Nazi Germany alone, experiments were made on people. We as a parliament, even though we have freedom of speech, have to be careful what we say and how we talk. Clinical studies have been performed. What I was looking for in several previous mandates, when Minister Loncar was not a minister, as chairman of the Health and Family Committee, to get information on whether a drug has been studied in clinical studies in Serbia without being questioned by patients from Western Europe and America. It's a request and a message to the Republic administration. Clinical studies are very important and a study of medical medicines and medical means is very important for the progress of our profession, for the development of our profession, and what is most important, for the health and passing of medicine for our patients. So, we need to be careful when we choose words and we need to choose words in the Parliament itself, although we have immunity for a spoken word, because citizens listen to us and watch us. Of course I will support any request for review and legal sanctioning anyone who has made any mistake in the treatment protocol or caused harm to the health of our patients. It's important to point out, I don't know a doctor who would consciously enter any malicious treatment and harm anyone. At least I don't know a doctor like that. I don't think we have such examples in Serbia. But it is important to know, and counterpart Atlagic mentioned it several times, whether a drug has been studied only on patients in Serbia and has not been questioned by citizens, patients from the European Union and the United States. That's why I even publicly say that this bill is good, because it regulates that regulation for clinical studies, because now the medications that will be given in clinical studies and examined in clinical studies will have to meet the conditions of standardisation that is very important and there will be no possibility that some medicine from some country will only be checked on our patients. It is something that is good and which is clear, publicly, several times in the day I repeat, it is for the safety of our patients in clinical studies a very important European legislative regulation that we accept, and we practically as parliamentarians are considering the same thing tonight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26109	Thank you. On behalf of the 20th and Article 20th amendments, MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojicic and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 20th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska jointly submitted to the title of Article 21 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić, Mladen Ševarlic, submitted to the 21st Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Branka Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted to the title above Article 22 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic submitted the 22nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted the 23rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted to the title of Articles 24 and 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Tomislav Žigmanov and Veroljub Stevanović submitted together to the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the National Assembly Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted the 24th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the members of the 25th and 25th Amendment, MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment to which they propose the addition of the title of Article 27 was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment to which they propose the addition of the title of Article 28 together was submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the National Assembly Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the 30th Amendment, the MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Branka Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted to the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 31st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 31st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic, Vjerica Radeta and Sreto Peric submitted together. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26110	Article 31 regulates the conduct of a clinical trial on specific, sensitive groups. Right now, let me just say that this is nothing new. Since this medicine has been conducted clinical research, studies. The procedure is almost identical when it comes to medicines and medical means, because there is no principle of the difference. The public knows more about the clinical study of a new drug, something that could be a cure in the future, and very little know about the clinical studies of a medical agent, because it is not so attractive for the public and the public. Given the errors in previous discussions, whether experiments have been made, etc., I think it's a termological error. The procedure is almost identical. Anyone who wants to examine something before it is registered, before serial production is allowed, that medical agent has to be tested in clinical conditions, so where patients should be and on patients. The procedure is prescribed, it's important to keep it under control and not to let anything bad happen to the patient. It can happen badly when it comes to medicine, check the medicine, and it can happen when it comes to medical medicine. In our practice, we've had these situations. I remember, in her own time, Slavica Djukic Dejanovic had a special contract concluded, although she was president of the National Assembly, to participate in a clinical study of a drug with her assistant at the Clinical and Hospital Centre, I think, Kragujevac received about 1,300 euros every month. It's money, and I don't know what's wrong with it. The woman got involved in that job. What finally turned out to be the fate of that drug, whether it was clinically accepted or not, whether it was registered, at the very least it didn't matter, but as a scientist it was involved. There's nothing wrong with that. I'm saying, it's the same situation with medical supplies, so now if it's a syringe, if it's a medical device, or if it's some kind of apparatus, etc. Here are very interesting these endangered groups or groups on which the examination is carried out. I say, all in accordance with the regulations, with appropriate consent, permits with necessary medical and professional monitoring, that no negative consequences arise. You said under point 6 that it was carried out over persons at the mandatory service of the military service. Mr. Lonchar, we don't have that category, we don't have soldiers at mandatory military service. You could have talked to Mr. Vulin, Djordjevic, those who are experts in the attack department, the defense department. We don't have that. We have a soldier under contract, we have an officer, but mandatory military service, what, Mr. Djukic, what you and I served, it doesn't exist anymore, it doesn't exist, it doesn't exist. Furthermore, the second group you have excluded as sensitive, which can be done by persons who, by decision of the court, cannot participate in a clinical trial. How can they be subject to a clinical trial when the court is unable to participate? That's a little contradictory. So now you wouldn't charge me as radicals just "dry, delete, delete" I gave you two innovations for these two points. I replaced the first act to be done on persons employed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So everyone who works in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, advisors, referents, younger, older, etc., can be subject to a clinical trial for a medical agent. That's how we avoid the situation of Tomica Milosavljevic. You said it well – Tomica Milosavljevic knows what health care is, doesn't believe in health care, dishurs hernia, went abroad to operate. Why? Where the hell are they going to operate on me? I'm going to be disabled. In order for that not to happen, all employees of the government of the Republic of Serbia can be clinical patients for testing medical supplies, so whether it's a syringe, whether it's a pressure meter, if it's something else. Furthermore, given the other categories, these are persons employed by the authorities of the state administration after July 2012. These are what, when they come to work, if they don't have a chair a little late, because it's all too crowded, and those who come to work first, they have a chair, those who are 15 minutes late, they're all out in the halls all day long. Since that's what the state pays, so they don't get ganged up, let them go into clinical trials with a medical agent. And that's how rationalization is done, secondly, the concentration of the localities where these are, as you say professionally, I apologize, these are vulnerabilities of the population, sensitive, vulnerable groups. I think that the most vulnerable and vulnerable are those who are employed after 2012 and those who work in the services of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Why are they the most vulnerable? They get up an hour early, they lie an hour later, at half eight, nobody gets to be late for work, they're psychophysically prepared to withstand all possible experiments related to medical means. You can do a new scanner, you can gamma knife, you can do these other things that haven't been certified yet, you can try there and see if it really meets these clinical requirements and whether it can register as a clinical agent.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26111	Thank you. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Aleksandra Jerkov, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Dejan Nikolic, Maja Vidinović, Radoslav Milojic, Tomislav Žigmanov and Veroljub Stevanović submitted to the 32nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Branka Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted to the title above Article 33 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 33rd Amendment were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 33rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Branka Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted to the title above Article 34 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 34th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment to which they propose the addition of the title of Article 35 was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura, LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 35th Amendment were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Branka Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted to the title above Article 36 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Milorad Mircic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26112	Our intervention was really legal technical. Now, look, Mr. Lonchar, I don't blame you, you know, you're here on behalf of the government, you're on behalf of the law's legislator, the bill promoter is the government. You have seen in this amendment we have asked that the word "sales" be replaced by words – a company registered for large-scale transport. This is in line with the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. But when they told you this should be rejected, I agree, it should be rejected, you don't want to adopt our amendments, it's all right. However, Mr. Lonchar, this formulation I've been looking for, I haven't invented it, it's in the next few members of this same law. It doesn't say big-sales, but you wrote a company registered for large-scale traffic there in a member. Now, I'm really asking a question – have you read the bill? Not specifically you, don't get me wrong, your obligation isn't to read this. Did your services, did the legislation read anything? Couldn't he have seen through three four members that what was a wholesaler wrote was a very commercial company registered for the traffic of goods on a large scale. If you refused this here, then someone should have written an amendment to write a big sale in the next article, instead of a company, but that didn't happen. I'm not angry, right now, I'm not one to suffer if the amendment is adopted, not adopted. What's my goal? To show, through amendments and discussions on amendments, how serious it is for the representatives of the legislator to have a relationship with one substance. I'm not correcting literal mistakes, especially me, Nishli to teach you spelling, it'd be a shame and a shame. I'm not teaching you that, but I want to legally help you make it look like something. Unfortunately, you didn't accept it, you have your reasons, I don't go into reasons, but here, I've brought you this dilemma a little bit, in this article you can't, in someone next there can.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26113	Thank you. National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura, LJupka Mihajlovska, submitted together to the 37th amendment. Does anyone want a word? The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26114	Article 37 is treated for the first time in this law by the sponsor of a clinical trial and through several members of this law a sponsor is treated and legal regulations appear for the sponsor of a clinical trial. What I, as a MP, and as a doctor, want to say publicly, said two days ago, is that in Serbia there are practically certain doctors who have become literally models of certain pharmaceutical houses. I don't know what kind of benefit and benefit the state of Serbia, the patients, the health profession of their journeys by exotic destinations, except that, in my opinion, it's abuse of position, that in some cases one doctor advertises three different pharmaceutical houses dealing with the sale of corticosteroids or antihistamines, and where he persistently repeats for each preparation that it is the best preparation. That seems funny to doctors, but when he gets in touch with a patient, it doesn't look funny because patients don't know what's what and literally what the doctor prescribes, they think it's best. For individuals, it seems to be the most important destination where they will travel, not to say fly, and it is important for me to begin legal channelling of sponsoring clinical trials, advertising medical resources through national media. What's the drive, I think we should know, that the Ministry of Health actually knows which of the doctors uses and communicates with pharmaceuticals. It's no big deal that the doctor has been communicating with the pharmaceutical house, but the point is that he knows how much money he got for a particular trip, how much he used a certain pharmaceutical home and used the sponsorship of a particular pharmaceutical house and what we as a poor country had benefits from someone traveling to a nice exotic paradise island or some seminar, where he may not have had any lectures, but the pharmaceutical house paid him that trip. So transparency, communication with pharmaceutical houses and with sponsors who finance clinical studies and studies or studies of any drug. The need for this percentage that certain pharmaceutical houses give through the form of sponsorship, to be used by young doctors, more and more important for this country is for one of the young specialists to leave, not for some chief who is a few years ahead of retirement 50 times a year to go on a trip. It is more necessary for a poor country, such as Serbia, which is struggling with the poor economic, practically the situation in which it is located, to use these percentages that the pharmaceutical houses provide that through sponsorship there is the possibility that a hospital, some home of health, should obtain some medical medicine that would benefit our patients and for the benefit of the employees themselves. This is the first member of the law under which I report to these clinical sponsors and sponsors of clinical trials. In the course of the presentation, I will still come across a clear cheek, because I have no communication with any of the pharmaceutical houses, but with a desire, while I am in parliament, I am publicly and clearly saying that we need to regulate this. Many colleagues will be angry with my exposure, but I am in the best interest of the state of health and the interest of patients. If we are poor, we can use the opportunities that pharmaceutical houses give, to benefit citizens, patients and health workers, not individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26115	The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a discussion we had with Mr. Secretary when there was a debate in principle. Here, in addition to all this that a colleague from the Democratic Party has stated, we have another very pronounced problem, under the circumstances a problem, a patient, of course very much trusts the doctor and then we come into a situation that the doctor who is sponsored can suggest to the patient some medical remedy, however, in this case is a means or medicine, which has less benefit for the patient himself than the benefit of the pharmaceutical house or the manufacturer of the medical tool that promotes, represents and presents. So, the minister said it nicely when we talked in principle and I would just like him to explain to me afterwards where and when, I don't mean in this law, but in what law it will be or the legal act provided for. It's clear to me that we can't determine someone where they're going to direct their resources to some pharmaceutical home or a medical manufacturer. But what the minister said was that they would be required to be made public when, in which, and how much they gave, for what purposes, they were something that was right. I didn't get an explanation then from Mr. Minister, where it was intended to be published and how it would be available to doctors on one hand, here's a case of colleagues who never used it, such services. By the way, my wife is a doctor, I asked her – would you give the drug you recommend by the pharmaceutical industry to your closest relative, mother, to me after all? When she convinced me about the benefits of this drug, I have no problem, but often a patient who is not sufficiently learned, he cannot ask these questions that someone who is from the medical profession will ask, and that is why it is important that we get that answer – where it will be presented in order to prevent any abuses, which in this way can occur, from happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26117	The word has a minister, Mr. Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26118	I think this is an extremely serious matter and to be clear, we can't affect profit. They're basically private companies that can do whatever they want with their profits. Whether they're going to invest it further in some research, whether they're going to invest it in the doctor's tourist trips, that's theirs. What we can demand and demand from them, I personally demand, and I would like to have as much support as possible, which is that all of their investments in the Republic of Serbia, not with us, but with them on the site to put, that the citizens of Serbia know, that we all know what they have done with part of the profits, will, of course, never give their full profit here to spend, but what it is spent in Serbia. To put that on who they paid for the trip, who they paid for the lecture, whether they paid for some hospital, if they bought something for some hospital and put it on. I think we have absolutely the right to do that. Maybe it doesn't agree with any of their business policies, but if we're persistent enough, that's the only way we can succeed. But I'm not a lawyer, I'm not sure that we have any other basis, that by some law we make them keep us informed of what they did with their profits. But if we're bored enough, if we insist on it, instead of full airplanes of doctors who go on tour, I'm not sure they'll be able to publish it on their site, that they've paid tens and tens of thousands of euros, and then we're going to ask them and have citizens ask them -- well, and why didn't you give that money for something else? Isn't it enough for them to leave one, two, three doctors to see what's new there, so when they come back to pass on to the others or it's necessary for 30 doctors to go, I don't know, 50 doctors and stuff. That's the whole point of which we won't give up, which we insist on at every meeting, when I see people from the pharmaceutical industry, I insist on it. So there's something we can do, there's something we can't do, this is the thing we'll keep looking at.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26119	Thank you. National MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic submitted to the amendment's 37th, in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 37th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 37th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Krasic, Dubravko Bojic, Verica Radeta and Aleksandar Seselj. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26120	I would ask the proposer's representative to look at Article 37 because above that number of members stands the word - sponsor, and that should now be a member who should define everything that is our sponsor. However, in the views of this member, he has no idea what a sponsor is, who is a sponsor. We can only conclude that it's someone who's the inventor of a future medical agent, since we're on that ground, or possibly someone who's involved in the production of medical supplies. Whether it's a man or a company from abroad or homework, in the end, it doesn't matter. But with the amendment, we have turned our attention to one thing that is completely unsustainable. This article says that no matter who he is, he must have his representative in Serbia in the form of a legal person with whom he concluded the contract, or a natural person. We asked for this physical face to be thrown out. Why? Well, I don't know, there's a retired academic showing up, so he's a law firm, I don't know, that big and that big. How can he guarantee his assets and otherwise in the overall process of clinical examination of a new medical agent, on behalf of a manufacturer who is a legal person? Now we're going back to that previous member where it was -- the wholesale. That's what business is all about. A company by definition is a legal person. Business is a company of capital. For its obligations, it shall correspond to the founding capital and the total assets and capital of the company. Why are you inserting a physical face that can be ordinary naked, which is hidden or not available to some property, and he's a foreigner? So, the big pharmaceutical house, the big manufacturer, I don't know, scanners, syringes, etc., giant worlds, for a clinical study of medical means, the name of Janko Jankovic. Who's Janko Jankovic? He could be some specialist, too. Some Rakic, an academic, can be this one, too. And he, a natural person, by the power of his name and his authority, is stronger than a company that deals with the sale of goods on a large scale. Well, can that get mentally into this bill? So this law doesn't treat medicine at all, it treats the organisation of a state on a key issue, which is: quality, standards, procedures, how to take it to the market, how to sell it. There's no diagnosis here, neither this nor that. These are all some helpful things that a doctor needs to be able to be a successful doctor. And there's no profession here, there's a profession in terms of standards, there's a profession in terms of trade, there's a profession in terms of registration, there's a profession in terms of everything that provides the quality of a medical tool. I really don't understand why the medical regulations, or these health regulations, are so insistent on these white collars, white coats, that it's dangerous. I told you a year ago about the famous Peri Vidojkovic, another sixty-six years ago when he threatened the Committee. They also cut their salaries to doctors, and he said: "Just cut your wages; I will make all the doctors strike, so that I may see who will treat you." Both Tito and his comrades capitulated, since they're strong doctors, a strong institution. Now, unfortunately, they've taken over the pharmacists. You're saying you're having trouble with them. Minister Loncar, in 25 days, I'd have arranged the pharmaceutical industry and these doctors who are dealing with them. Be sure of that in 25 days. You know what I couldn't handle? These doctors of yours, not yours, these doctors, the professors who take 15 days paid to go to Slovenia, they operate on big money. I couldn't handle it, and this boranium's about to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26121	The 38th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 38 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic submitted together to the 38th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 39th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26122	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's about the Ethics Committee. When it comes to ethics, I want all those who celebrate tomorrow, and tonight they have begun to celebrate with happiness, in health, for thousands of years, and they and their guests, and never again to wait for this country to be ruled by a variety of peljescans, mutibarians, cheating, like that government of general national ruin made by the parties of the former regime. With that in mind, I'm not answering my word tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26123	Thank you. National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojicic and Miladin Ševarlic submitted together to the 39th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26124	Thank you, Chairman. Very short. So this is another one in a series of adopted amendments, technical amendments. The intervention was necessary in the part relating to the removal of one of the failures that was stolen. I'm glad this amendment was adopted, but I'm even more pleased that not even in the principle debate, but here we are today throughout the day, we haven't heard a single fundamental complaint. That is why this law should be supported. For the reasons he took out just before Mr. Risticevic, I'm joining, and I won't be answering again until the end of the night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26125	Parliamentarians Dusan Milisavljevic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojičić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Maja Vidinović, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Stevanović and Tomislav Žigmanov together. The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26126	This amendment proposed that two teachers of the University of Serbia medical faculty enter the Ethics Committee, since the proposed member of the law provides that the Ethics Committee of Serbia must have at least four medical specialists experienced in the scientific-medical evaluation of the results of clinical trials of medicines and medical resources, as well as ethical principles for clinical trials, as well as two representatives of the Association of Patients at the level of the Republic of Serbia. The amendment is that two teachers of the Faculty of Medicine in Serbia enter this Ethics Committee, given that the teachers of medical schools are the most verified medical department in our Republic, and not only in our Republic, but also in all EU countries, where they are literally every year, and especially every five years, when the status of professors in the university is checked, evaluates his work, his knowledge. I think the proposal for this amendment was in place and that the Ministry of Health and Family Committee, i.e. Even the assistant health minister said there was a possibility of adoption. It's not adopted, but I'm still at the point where it's important to be people who are the most professional. We all think we're the same, but we're not the same. As far as medical knowledge is concerned, the teachers of medical schools are most exposed to continued medical work, check this work, and I think they should find places in the Ethics Committee. That was the purpose of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26127	Thank you. Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the 40th Amendment, the MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted their name to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In terms of the more efficient work of parliament, I will not report as an applicant for the amendment in the future, but I will take advantage of the remaining time of the parliamentary group and the mandated proposing if I feel the need to clarify and talk to the minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26129	National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26130	When it comes to Article 41, it regulates changes and additions when conducting a clinical trial. It says – in the event that a clinical trial is conducted and some fundamental changes can significantly affect the safety, that is, the physical and mental integrity of the subjects, then it is necessary for the sponsor to submit a request to the Agency for these fundamental changes to be approved. Then the Agency has 30 days to respond to that request and that's all right. I can also imagine that in the middle of a clinical trial, there are some fundamental changes, of course we should check with the Agency and get approval. I had one single remark, i.e. The fact that it looks like it's enough for the sponsor to apply, and that's it, he can continue to conduct a clinical trial. I have only added one member - that in the event of submission of a request under Article 2, the clinical examination is suspended until the opinion of the Agency, which will either accept these essential changes or will not, or will say that they are safe for safety and physical and psychological integrity or not. So, somehow I just kind of left this unsaid. Turns out all that in the event of substantial changes, the sponsor needs to do is file a request. I think that this attitude should also be added to ensure that the clinical trial then stops until the agency gives the last word on the acceptability or inadmissibility of these essential changes for the further course of research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26131	Thank you. Members of the 41st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 41st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska jointly submitted to the title of the amendment 42. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 42 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 42nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the 43rd amendment, MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 43rd amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 43rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska jointly submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 44th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted their name to the 45th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 45th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 45th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska jointly submitted to the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 46 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic together submitted to the 46th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska jointly submitted to the title of the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 47th amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dusan Milisavljevic, Goran Ćirić, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojičić, Aleksandra Jerkov, Maja Vidinović, Dejan Nikolic, Veroljub Stevanović and Tomislav Žigmanov together submitted to the 47th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the 48th amendment, MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted together. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 48th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment to which they propose the addition of the title of Article 49 was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 49th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted the 49th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26132	Thank you. In Article 50, we suggested that paragraphs 2 and 3 be deleted because Article 2 allows the medical agent to be placed on the market before its registration is completed. We believe that a medical remedy should not be found in traffic before its registration is fully completed, while according to the current bill, which will unfortunately remain so, it is practically enough to apply for registration and that is enough for that medical remedy to be placed on the market. I don't think we need that kind of nonchalant. If we were a little more orderly country and society, such as most of the EU countries that we overwrite all of this, we might be able to allow ourselves, however, you know very well how many problems can arise with us because of such indetermination and because we have blindly stuck to a translated solution from the European Directive, rather than to think a little bit about what will cause this in practice in our case and in our market. The bill promoter had no hearing about the explanation I gave and refused this amendment, again for my understandable reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26133	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the 50th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska jointly submitted to the 51st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 51st Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 51st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 51st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 52nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26134	Thank you. We have a situation here again, as in Article 50, which is that without much thought, we simply translated some solution from the EU legislation, where approximately when it comes to medical means that the registration has expired, it is enough again to just file a request to continue the turnover of the medical means. With this amendment, we have suggested that this position 4 be changed by saying: "the medical remedy to which the registration has expired cannot be imported until that registration is renewed". So, again, if we were a regulated rule of law, it might be enough to make demands, as is clearly enough in EU countries. However, each country is specific, and we need everything that we take from EU regulations to look at and compare to our specific situation and to imagine what this can turn into. That is why this accession process is called negotiations. So, we need to negotiate with the EU whether we will fully translate or adapt to some of our conditions. I believe it is much safer for the market of our medical means and for patients and users of medical means that we make sure that the medical means to which the registration has expired cannot be imported only on the basis of requests for an extension of registration, but that requirement must be submitted much sooner then, if a situation is not to be interrupted. Again, this amendment was rejected by legislators such as, I don't know, this one, at least it's certainly well-intentioned and has in mind the patient's well-being and protection of the domestic market, enhanced protection of the domestic market when it comes to medical resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26135	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 52nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the amendment 52. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 52nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted to the title of the 53rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 53rd Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić submitted to the 53rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 54th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to the 54th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska jointly submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 55th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 55th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted their name to the 56th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 56 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 56th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska jointly submitted to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 57th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 57th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska jointly submitted to the 58th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 58 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlić submitted to the 58th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic together submitted to the 58th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 59th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 59th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic and Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 59th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic submitted to the 59th amendment. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk envoy Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26136	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will only briefly explain this amendment. We have submitted the amendment, because there is obviously a mistake in typing the very text of the proposal, and if you would compare the text of the proposal with our amendment yourself, you would see what it is. The amendment was accepted, or the Serbian government gave an opinion, a positive opinion on this amendment, which I thank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26137	Thank you. The 59th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Alexic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska jointly submitted to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic submitted together to the 60th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs together, Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zarić Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic, together with Jelena Vujic Obradović, Marija Jevdić, Djordje Kosanić, Petar Petrovic and Vojislav Vujic, submitted to the 60th amendment. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a people's messenger, Studenka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26138	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment concerns correcting a technical error. My fellow Members and I are trying to make a contribution to the better application of this law, and I would like to thank the Government for accepting this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26139	Thank you. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 61 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 61st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska jointly submitted to the 62nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 62 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 62th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska jointly submitted to the 63rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 63 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment to which they propose the addition of the title of member 64 was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 64th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 64th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment to which they propose the addition of the name of the 65th member was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 65th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dr Dragan Vesovic, Mr Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojićic and Prof. Dr. Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 65th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment to which they propose the addition of the title of Article 66 was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 66 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić and Miladin Ševarlic submitted together to the 66th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Branka Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted together to Article 67 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 67 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić and Miladin Ševarlic submitted to Article 67 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of the 68th Amendment, MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 68 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić and Miladin Ševarlic submitted to the 68th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 69th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 69 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 69th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 69th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted to the 70th Amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 70 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 70th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted to the 71st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 71 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Branka Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 72 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić and Miladin Ševarlic submitted the 72th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska jointly submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 73 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of Parliament Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojčić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs together Aleksandar Marković, Jelena Zarić Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic, together with Jelena Vujic Obradović, Majina Jevdić, Djordje Kosanić, Petar Petrovic and Vojislav Vujic, submitted to the amendment in the same text. The government and the Health and Family Committee have adopted the amendment, the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from the MP of the people Studenka Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26140	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, the same situation as before. So, we were dealing with correcting technical mistakes just because the law was fundamentally excellent and there was no work, so we were dealing exclusively with correcting technical errors. Thank you again for accepting the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26141	The 74th Amendment was jointly submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 74 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 74th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Constantinović and Zdravko Stankovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 74th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted to the 75th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 75 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 75th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 76th Amendment was jointly submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 76 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 76th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted to the 77th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 77 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 77th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On behalf of the 78th Amendment, MP Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 78 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 78th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 79th Amendment was jointly submitted by MP Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 79 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 79th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted to the 80th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 80 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 80th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Zoran Krasic, Sreto Peric, Ruzica Nikolic and Aleksandar Seselj together submitted to the 80th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) National MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26142	If we've submitted the amendment, we need to sort of explain it, make that last attempt to see if we've been able to convince the government's representative that it's not bad to adopt our amendment. It is a Article 80 relating to the obligations of importers. It says - the importer of medical supplies that are not members of the EU. These countries that are not EU members are our reason to draw attention to you. So in our legal system, there is something that is a state, a country of Serbia and everything else is abroad. The government of the Republic of Serbia also has the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. All those countries that are not EU members are abroad, as are EU Member States abroad. We are not in such a strong integration process that we have drowned and become a member of the EU. And all the countries that are members of the EU are now 28, from the point of view of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, it is abroad. It may have some specific relations due to bilateral and multilateral agreements that exist on the route, but this is not the level to regulate that specificity by this member. This specificity is regulated by the Foreign Trade Act, customs regulations and other regulations. That's the first drawback. He's legally political. Another much greater deficit is that this member practically prescribes that without the minister's consent, imports are not possible. I can understand that the ministry is kind of wondering, but then the question is, why the Agency, and why the Health Insurance Agency, why the Public Health Office, what about some other institutions? One who is being grabbed by law by an exclusive right to decide whether or not he will approve the import goes into one big risk. Medical means are products and goods, when they appear at customs. And every slave has a proper regime. Obviously, it's not a regime here - go ahead. But obviously the regime here can't even be a license, is there any prior approval, etc. When it comes to the regime of permits, then whoever retains the regime and the exclusive right to decide, he handles the balance sheets, the balance sheets of the production of medical resources in Serbia and the balance sheets of consumption. However, our ministry will not be able to know these balances, because there are even parallel private health care, which does not have much obligation to notify the Ministry of Health, and there is a great danger if there is a permit for some larger quantities, to burden payment traffic with abroad. I think this is the wrong solution. Here's a solution for intruding. Every minister likes to keep someone his exclusive right to decide something, about some permits, without his signature, nothing can happen, but those are bad solutions. Apparently, whoever copied this from the EU directive and the regulation has misrepresented it. There is nowhere in these regulations and directives in this way described. These directives apply to EU members and there is a completely different terminology when described, they are members. In regulations, if you talk about a third party that is not an EU member, then you say - another country, a third country or a third party. It has really become a problem here that someone wanted to do something to get some plus from the EU as it's all been implemented, something else has been fulfilled for some chapter, I don't know which chapter, in this way you've proved that you've done something, but, rest assured, when you go to the EU, to Brussels, and when you talk to them, they'll tell you from the commission that they're big opponents of blind copying the directive into the legal system of EU member states. And they are even angry if a Member State prescribes a solution from another Member State. So you have this situation. We were almost, Mr. Arsic and I were in Brussels in May, listening to what their experts were saying about this copying and what they call it, etc., etc. I think you've chosen a bad path. This will remain unclear. All non-EU countries, and not Serbia, are abroad. Take it, it'll be easier for you and for us.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26143	Thank you. The 80th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Marinika Tepic, Sonja Pavlovic, Aleksandra Cabraj, Jovan Jovanovic and Zoran Zivkovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Dubravko Bojic, Milorad Mircic, Verica Radeta and Nikola Savic together submitted to the 80th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska jointly submitted to the 81st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 81 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 81st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska jointly submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 82 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Marko Djurisic, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanovic, Nenad Konstantinovic and Zdravko Stankovic submitted to the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment proposing the addition of the title of Article 83 was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 83 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojicic and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted the 83rd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 84th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 84 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 84th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska jointly submitted to the 85th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 85th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 85th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) An amendment proposing that Article 85 be added after Article 85. together, MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Branka Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted to the title of the 86th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 86 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted the amendment to Article 86. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska jointly submitted to the 87th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 87 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojicic and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 87th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 88th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 88th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 88th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 89th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 89 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 89th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska jointly submitted to the 90th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 90 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 90th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs together, Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zarić Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic, together with Jelena Vujic Obradović, Marija Jevdić, Djordje Kosanić, Petar Petrovic and Vojislav Vujic, submitted to the 90th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska jointly submitted to the 91st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 91 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted to the 91st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 92th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 92 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojicic and Miladin Ševarlic submitted together to Article 92 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 93rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 93 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted the 93th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 93rd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Nenad Canak, Nada Lazic and Olena Papuga. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 94th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 94 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Vesovic, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic together submitted the amendment to Article 94. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MP Vesna Rakonjac submitted to Article 94 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment to which they propose the addition of the title of Article 95 was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenkovic, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 95th amendment. That someone wants a word, too? No, I don't. ) The 95th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 96th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic to Article 96. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 96th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Branka Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted to Article 97 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 97 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. That someone wants a word, too? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic submitted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On behalf of Article 98 of the amendment, the MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska together submitted. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 98 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. That someone wants a word, too? No, I don't. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. That someone wants a word, too? No, I don't. ) The names of the 99th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 99 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. That someone wants a word, too? No, I don't. ) The 99th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Vesović, Ivan Kostic, Zoran Radojić and Miladin Ševarlic. That someone wants a word, too? No, I don't. ) The 99th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Markovic, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Studenka Kovacevic and Aleksandra Mikeic. The government and the Health and Family Committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26144	Thank you. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have submitted an amendment in order to correct this provision by practically adding one word to the effect that this provision will ultimately get the right meaning in a language sense. Also, again, to make the provision more understandable, without meddling in the essence and without meddling in the professional part, I will use my report to tell you that I will no longer appear in this debate in particular and to thank the Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for a positive opinion and for the accepted amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-11-20-0.u26145	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, with this amendment, we would like to conclude today's debate. We will continue tomorrow with the amendment to Article 100, which was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Stamenković, Tatjana Macura and LJupka Mihajlovska at 10.00 hours. Thank you.
