ParlaMint-RS_2017-03-01-0.u14252	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the first session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. I would like first of all to hear the anthem of the Republic of Serbia, which will be performed today by the Children's Choir, under the leadership of Leontina Vukomanovic. We thank another children's choir "The Magic". [[intonating anthem]] I thank Leontina Vukomanovic. Before we begin our work, I invite you to pay tribute to the late Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Konstantin Arsenovic, for a moment of silence. Praise him. The honourable MPs, based on official records of the presence of the MPs, agree that 149 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 167 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You were presented with the minutes of the 5th, 6th and 7th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016 and the minutes of the 5th Special Sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the tasks of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I put to the vote The minutes of the fifth session of the Second regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016, held on 4, 5, 6, 8, 9 and 10 December 2016. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 41 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the minutes of the 5th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. I put to the vote The minutes of the sixth session of the Second regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016, held on 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 20, 21 and 22 December 2016. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 43 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, adopted the minutes of the 6th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. I put to the vote The minutes of the seventh session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016, held on 22, 23, 26, 27 and 28 December 2016. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 43 MPs for – 144. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2016. I put to the vote The minutes of the Fifth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th session, held on 20 December 2016. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 43 MPs for – 144. I find that the National Assembly adopted the record of the fifth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 11th Assembly. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions. Dear MPs, the government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the financial agreement "Improvement of the bodies of the judicial bodies B" between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 January 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions who voted 182 MPs for – five against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law on the confirmation of the loan agreement (the first programme loan for development policies in the field of public expenditure and public enterprises) be put on the agenda between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which submitted to the National Assembly on 17 February 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted 189 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the draft decision on the termination of the office of a member of the High Council of the Court of Justice, which submitted to the National Assembly on 22 December 2016, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted was 191 a Messenger of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government has proposed that, by emergency procedure, the proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the Economic Court of Appeal, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 December 2016, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted was 191 a Messenger of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society has proposed to put the draft decision on the agenda on the selection of members of the National High Education Council, which submitted to the National Assembly on 29 December 2016. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, voted was 191 a Messenger of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society proposed that, by emergency procedure, the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the National Education Council, which submitted to the National Assembly on 29 December 2016, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstentions who has not voted 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Zoran Zivkovic suggested that the draft law supplementing the Law on the selection of MPs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 12 January 2017, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against one, abstention—one, there was no vote of 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The state's major prosecutors proposed that the draft decision on the election of the deputy public prosecutor, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 3 February 2017, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for two, two, and 190 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested putting the draft law on amendments and additions to the Water Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 February 2017, on the urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for four, and there is no vote of 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sonja Pavlovic suggested that the draft law amending and supplementing the House and Building Maintenance Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 February 2017, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - three against - no one who is abstentioned - who has not voted 188 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Maja Vidinovic suggested that the draft law amending the Budgetary System Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 14 February 2017, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one, abstentioned—one, did not vote 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Radoslav Milojičić proposed that the draft law supplementing the Public Information Act and the media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 February 2017, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 175 MPs for – 16, against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Sasa Radulovic proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Authorisation of Signatures, Scriptures and Prescriptions, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 24 February 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, voted 175 MPs for – 16, against. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The MP group "Enough Has Been" proposed to put the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 February 2017, on an urgent procedure. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153, v – two, abstention – no one voted 35 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 February 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 46 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Group of Liberal-Democratic Party – The League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina – SDA Sandzak proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 27 February 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 versus – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 40 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda for a decision on the termination of the position of the Citizens' Protector, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 28 February 2017. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 151 versus – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 40 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 101(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break in the work, at the request of the heads of parliamentary groups, and this: SNS, SPS, PUPS, JS, SVM, the Party for Democratic Action, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, the Socialist Movement, the People's Peasants' Party and the United Peasants' Party, to hold consultations with them and to hold consultations in the government of the Republic of Serbia, which I was invited to in the meantime. In accordance with Article 101(5), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that you will be informed of the follow-up session following the consultations I have made with the heads of Parliament who have requested a break in our work. (Vojislav Seselj, from the post: What are these bosses? I've read it, MP, so I'm asking for a little patience and I'll let you know.
