ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23333	Dear People's MPs, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 92 MPs. To determine the number of MPs present today in the O.R., please insert your identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23334	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, several years since the power of the SNS, I and my colleagues and colleagues have been urging the subject to be the freedom of the media, freedom of expression, the atmosphere in a society that is unfortunately in Serbia in 2017 such that there is no room for public dialogue, that there is no chance for a free word, that anyone who dares to say anything free that pleases one man will be declared a state enemy, a traitor and completely criminalised. Unfortunately, this is not what politicians and politicians, party representatives, are experiencing, is what any free citizen who does not agree to remain silent. You know, today in front of the National Assembly, and this is the introduction to my very specific issues, there are journalists and journalists who were forced to come before the National Assembly, who gathered in a coalition for freedom of the media, because of the fact that they are constitutionally entitled to work cannot organise. The fact is, they can't work freely today. The fact is that today an objective independent journalist is declared a state enemy, a drug addict, a traitor, someone who is trying to assassinate Vukic. Today, anyone who tries to deal freely and responsibly with his work will be the most brutally marked by the top representatives of this government, primarily by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. The witnesses are citizens that for years we've had an inadmissible labeling of journalists, inadmissible labelling and criminalisation of anyone who dares to say anything that doesn't like one man. When we talk about freedom of the media, when we talk about freedom of endangerment, and I remind you all that without free society there is no democracy, without free media there is no democracy. I also remind you of the right of citizens, and it is the right of every citizen and citizen in this country to be objectively, timelyly informed. Unfortunately, something like that isn't possible today. Journalists and journalists in front of the Assembly today, who have committed and asked us, representatives of the citizens, to ask on their behalf certain questions and Serbian prime ministers, Mrs Ani Brnabic and the ministers, I will ask on their behalf today, and much more important on behalf of citizens and citizens to ask several very important questions. So, the question for Ms. Ana Brnabic -- why didn't she accept the invitation to a meeting with a media freedom group that brings together more than 30 press associations and civil society organisations? You know, Serbian citizens are the witnesses of an incredibly irresponsible statement by Mrs. Brnabic, least said irresponsible, that today there is no problem with objective journalism, but that there is a problem with objective journalists, which has not only humiliated journalists and journalists, but also all citizens of Serbia. Journalists gathered in the coalition for freedom of the media asked Mrs. Ana Brnabic to meet, talk, dialogue, the favorite word of this government, which actually does not know its meaning. They asked for it to happen within ten days and she at no time responded to such a call. Question for Mrs. Ana Brnabic – why don't you want to meet and talk to Serbian journalists and journalists, who have specific questions for you and who just want to show you the most incredible pressures they are under? Secondly, what does it tell you that in 2013 there were 23 attacks against journalists in Serbia, and this year, in 2017, only in the first eight months 54? The third question – on what criteria did you assess, is what is not only the European public but also all citizens of Serbia have the opportunity to hear, Mrs Brnabic's irresponsible statement that there are no objective journalists and why it falls under the principle of President Aleksandar Vukic, that anyone who dares to ask a critical question automatically becomes an enemy of Serbia? Question for Police Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic – why did police officers in uniform and in civilians not react during the incident at the inauguration of President Aleksandr Vukic at the first inauguration on 31 May 2017? More importantly, three months ago, the police minister said identified attackers who brutally pushed "Today" journalist Lydia Valtner and many other journalists, that these attackers were identified, so I ask the police minister to tell us what happened after that identification, were they in custody, were any investigations launched? Those answers are required to be given as minister of police. Who broke into the apartment of journalist Dragana Beqo, a journalist who belongs to the journalist organisation "Krik", research journalists who each day receive awards for courage? These are issues that are not only of interest to journalists and journalists, who do not give up fighting for the free word, because without a free word there is no way, these are questions for which you are obliged to answer Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23335	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23336	Thank you very much. I'm joining these questions and I don't want to repeat them, but you're free to record them as if I've asked them if they don't get angry with their colleagues. I have a few more questions for people called the highest-ranking performers in this country. First question, I'm telling Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. I ask him – what are the topics and what are the conclusions of the talks between Alexander Vukic and Hoyt Brian Ji, which were carried out the other day in a place in Belgrade, do not know exactly where? We don't have any information about this except information from the presidency, that it will be published by the US Embassy or that Vukic will publish it in the coming days. I ask Dacic - who is leading Serbia's foreign policy through the Constitution? As far as I can remember, the Serbian government is doing it. As I recall, Vukic is no longer president of the Serbian government. So the question is, was it a private visit or did it make any deeper sense? I'm asking Dacic and what scared Wolfie so shut up about those conversations for a few days. If there's something very dangerous, let's get organized and help a man, let's see what's going on here. The third question for Dacic on this subject – were there dinners with the deputy assistant, etc., did Dacic sing anything at that dinner, if he sang, what he sang and if he played, what games he played? The second part of the question is for the Secretary of Defense, Vulin. We've had this MIG situation. I don't know who was winking, but my questions are, when did your MiGs fly from Russia? Why didn't they fly on October 20th at Batajnica? It was announced that we would meet, that on that day we would become stronger, that from that day on everyone around us, from the north to the south, and to the left and to the right, would fear for our great power. Why didn't those MiGs fly? When one MiG flew back and how, when can't it fly? What is now, according to the media, and officially confirmed, flew away or transported to Russia to be repaired, why was it transported to Serbia before October 20th, if it was returned after October 20th to Russia? What's the point? Is it part of some technology, or is it some kind of political decision, to make that clear? Who's fixing these MiGs? There was a announcement that it would be done by our "Remont Institute", so now, I see, they're coming back for Russia. That's an important question. When are these MiGs going to fly or are they just bought for the Air Force Museum, which is in Surcinese, not the Batajna airport? If he's gonna fly, where's he gonna fly? What's their purpose? Will they be able to fly and how much they can fly? Another question, how much is this whole toy around these MiGs, which is a gift that costs between 150 and 350 million euros or dollars, I don't know what? These are all important issues for the Serbian public. Finally, another question for Minister Vulin – how is his aunt from Canada? Is he okay? A question for the president of the state, or at least a person that is thus represented, for the president of the Assembly, for the foreign minister, for the minister of justice and for the interior minister, whether they know the text of the oath that the Serbian judges made before the president, so-called. Kosovo the other day, as part of the Brussels Agreement, signed between Vukic and Hashim Thaci, and for this second one, our country has Interpol's warrant and is seen by the judiciary of this country as a war criminal? Do they know that this oath by Serbian judges is – I solemnly swear that during my duties as Judge of the Republic of Kosovo I will remain faithful to the constitution of the Republic of Kosovo and will act as judge with honor, responsibly, impartially, respecting the rules of professional ethics? Isn't this a betrayal of the country? Who signed and who's implementing this agreement?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23337	Thank you. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23338	Thank you, Your Honor. My question today is to address Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic and Vice President Marinkovic, and on the occasion of yesterday's appearance of one of the MPs from Dveri Boška Obradovic's parliamentary group, who, with his performance in this house yesterday, not only extended the idea of fascism through the denial of the national identity of Bosniaks, but also violated the Constitution and the laws of this country. My question is – why is Bosko Obradovic not being warned yesterday, nor is he punished for it, but is allowed, on several occasions, to insult the dignity of the entire Bosniak people, but thus all citizens of this state, and the dignity of this parliament? As the Bosniak MP of the SDA Sandzak, I urge all competent state authorities to respond urgently and to ensure the functioning and respect of the Constitution and the law of guaranteed rights, both individual and collective rights of the Bosniak national community in the Republic of Serbia. We will certainly file a lawsuit for this behaviour to the competent state authorities, but I believe this violation has been so harsh that the state authorities should act on their own in automatism. We also call on National Assembly President Maja Gojkovic to prevent the spread of hatred in the highest home, in the highest representative home of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to sanction this inappropriate behaviour of one of ours, unfortunately, I must say, colleague. I would like to remind myself that the challenge of national, religious, language, and any other impatience, and hatred in the Republic of Serbia, is forbidden and that this house was given a great slap yesterday. So, the SDA of Sandzak is on the view that respect for the nationality, identity and specificity of all peoples living in the Republic of Serbia is the basis of co-existence and that denying any national identity may be the source of the instability and conflict we have seen in the past time, in which Bosniaks have often been the target. What Bosko Obradovic said yesterday about this assembly speaker requires not only the condemnation of state authorities, but also of all people living in the Republic of Serbia. But what this congregation can least do is not let one of our own step forward, I say again, unfortunately, my colleague. I hope that in the next term for such people in this House there will be no more room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23339	Thank you. The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23340	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to ask the same question I asked on October 5th, but now to another address. Namely, my question today goes to Mr Stefanovic, Minister of the Interior, as regards the status of the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre. On October 5th, I asked Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, who told him at the beginning of this year, that he would discuss at the first next cabinet session with then Prime Minister Mr. Vukic about the status of the humanitarian centre, saying, quote, that the humanitarian centre should finally be resolved or should be abolished or given the status. The other day I received from Mr. Dacic, who often mentioned the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis, and he brought in a lot of votes and made a lot of promotions at the expense of the centre. I was told in a letter and was well written that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not in charge of the status of the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre, but that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for this. Therefore, I repeat, I am referring my question to Mr Stefanovic and Serbian MUP -- how will the status of the Russian-Serbian humanitarian centre in Nis be resolved? I think it's quite urgent, given that things are speeding up and since we've seen Mr. Brian Hoyt Ji's American clerk, who came here to line up, it would be time to show something. My second question goes to the Prime Minister, Mrs. Brnabic, and to the Minister of Industry. Namely, I found information in the magazine "Mon diplomat", which says that more than 700 billion taxpayers owe to the state of Serbia companies that are abroad, meaning what foreign investments are. So I'm wondering if this information is correct? I am also interested in how much is allocated to the various assistance given to these companies and incentivising funds, and on the other hand I have a third sub-question of this major economic issue. We witness every day that we watch TV, open up various companies, businesses, hire workers, and on the other hand we have information that some companies are also companies, that is, many companies buy their towels and leave Serbia. So, for example, two very large transport companies "Brothers Crnomarković" and "Jelicians" from Požega have left, and these are the transport companies that took with them to Slovenia and Austria thousands of trucks and brought thousands of qualified drivers, and we know that the truck driver can't get ready for three weeks, but that's a job that needs to be nurtured. You know, as we publish births and publish and death, it should be in a civilized society and known and announced how many companies have left Serbia in the last three years. That would be my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23341	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue my work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf the guests of Hungary, students and professors of the Faculty of Law at the University of Sječenj and Istvan in Jer, who are following today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the House of the National Assembly. Let me greet them on your behalf. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23342	Thank you, Your Honor. First one request to those to whom we refer questions, these questions are directed as they are asked here. It means that the stenographic notes are used, because three weeks ago I asked Minister Stefanovic whether he was aware or unconscious when he said in April of this year that no person who participates in protests against dictatorships will be taken, and 20 days later, the minister answered me that he was answering my question about misapplications against the person and then he referred me to the members of the law and the authority of the police in response. I know all that, and that wasn't the point of my question, and this isn't the answer I was looking for. I asked for an answer to the question – did he, knowingly or unconsciously, make false statements when he said on 5 April that no measures against the protesting participants would be taken? Please send the question to the future as it is here in the O.R. Now I'd like to ask the question of the Minister of Sports. It's Mr. Vanya Widow. We haven't had a chance to see him in this congregation. I ask him the question – what will he do about the election of the new Management Board of the Vojvodin Football Club in which, among other things, our colleague, Mr Dusan Bajatovic, was elected? I don't mind each of us wanting to help, to use his spare time, if he has it, to do other jobs in sports clubs, cultural associations or something. However, there is one problem, which is the Law on Sports, which this Assembly adopted in February 2016. In Article 33. The law on sports states that members of the sports organisation's administration cannot be persons who perform public functions, as well as persons who function in the political party's authority. That's what this assembly adopted. Now I ask the question – does it even make sense to adopt any laws in the state of Serbia if these laws are not respected the moment they come out of the room or do these laws not apply to everyone? It applies to all citizens, except those who are members of the SNS, the SPS and other parties in power. Unfortunately, if you look at the news, if you look at what is happening in Serbia today, you can see that a number of laws do not apply if you are a member of SNS, SPS and other parties in the government. (Srbislav Filipovic throws. Why are we sitting here, why are we discussing, adopting laws, spending citizens' money on the line, if the laws that come out of this room don't apply to everyone? This is a small and benign example... (Srbislav Filipovic throws. ) I ask the chairman, so that you do not come to the situation to punish only the MPs of the opposition again, to warn colleagues who are misbehaving and due opposite to Article 104 of the MPs who are asking the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23343	My colleagues, I warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23344	My colleague, yes, it's not funny, you could use a little more intelligence to be more witty. Does the laws in this country apply to all or not to members of SNS and SPS? That's the key question. With a country where laws don't apply to everything, we're not going anywhere further into Europe, and we're not going to go to Russia, in the far line. I would end up, if I were to refer to the questions that my colleague Maja Vidinovic, in front of the media freedom group, has asked, I will ask one of the questions they are asking for Justice Minister Nelu Kuburovic – are there effective control mechanisms to determine whether they are in use, such as monitoring, recording or covert surveillance of journalists' communications and whether the competent authorities abuse their legal powers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23345	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23346	Dear citizens of Serbia, it is the duty of the MPs to ask the most authorities on your behalf and today I will ask, first of all, the question to the Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic and Justice Minister Nelli Kuburovic about a truly painful topic that burdens the lives of more than 22,000 families in Serbia, and these are loans indexed in Swiss francs. So we have recently heard from Prime Minister Ana Brnabic that our national courts should plead on this issue. I ask the question – when will this happen? On 20 September this year, the European Court of Justice decided on consumer protection in cases of loans in Swiss francs. The European Court of Justice's ruling states that the contractual provision on the payment of the debt under the current course of the Swiss franc is part of the main subject matter of the loan agreement and that its dishonesty can be examined unless it is clearly and comprehensibly drawn up. It is in the national court to verify whether all the elements on which it could assess the total cost of its loan have been communicated to the consumer and if not, this contractual provision shall be declared void. On the basis of this, I ask the Ministry of Justice – are domestic courts obliged to act in accordance with this decision of the European Court of Justice and when will it start to apply in practice? So here are some concrete data, 22,000 families in Serbia have loans indexed in Swiss francs. It's a kind of green credit and over-indebted debt in which there are practically more than 100,000 citizens belonging to these families. Two and a half thousand of these bank clients have filed lawsuits against banks, hearings are scheduled for only a year, each in six to twelve months. You have a situation that many countries in Europe have solved this problem, from Poland, through Hungary, to Croatia. Only in Serbia are our overindebted citizens unable to free themselves from this banking slavery in which they are located. Then I will try to ask a question in context – why is this happening? Because just the courts that are to judge these banking clients have special VIP contracts with banks on special loans, which are only available to judges in Serbia, to avoid judging by law and to pass judgments that must be in favour of bank clients who are damaged, not only those indexed in Swiss francs, but complete currency clauses and complete fees and other fees that banks take illegally, because all their costs would have to be included in what is a credit war, i.e. in what is the basic thing to be paid back in every loan, not always a new fee and a new commission, additional and additional cost. The issue, of course, also applies to the governor of the National Bank of Serbia -- when will someone stand in the way of banks in Serbia and when will someone protect the citizens from these bankers who tear their skin from the backs of citizens in Serbia? The next issue concerns also an important sphere, and these are public perpetrators who are rich in looting poverty in Serbia. Millions and millions of public executioners are convulsing by throwing out a poor woman who has not paid for electricity of several hundred euros or other municipal services, which is why she is being kicked out of her family home. So we ask the Ministry of Justice, which controls the work of public perpetrators, to provide us with a report on citizens' complaints on the work and conduct of public perpetrators, and what are the answers of the Ministry itself and the Chamber of Public Executors to these complaints? At the end of the issue for the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Maju Gojkovic. During her term as Mayor of Novi Sad, did she conclude a contract with Žeravić Stevan from Sremski Karlovac, which agreed to do security and other jobs for the client, even though he was assigned to her as an official of the MUP for security matters and what additional jobs he did for Maja Gojkovic and did Maja Gojkovic possibly pay additional salaries to some officials because they were pleasant or dear to her on some basis? Second question for National Assembly President Maju Gojkovic - when you became mayor of Novi Sad, how much cash did you find in the safe deposit box of Novi Sad and how much money did you spend for the first three months of your term as Mayor of Novi Sad? Finally, on behalf of many Serbian citizens who are interested in this topic, is there a state institution in Serbia that can professionally answer the question of many concerned citizens - what is happening in Serbian care? What are these marks that you see every day? What kind of dusting is it and what materials? So people wouldn't be confused and suspicious about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23347	Time. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Stevanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23348	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to start with questions that are repetitions, but we from the Movement enough we've had such experience that the issues get lost 22 to 29 times when we ask them, so it's not bad twice. So, for Prime Minister Ana Brnabic -- why didn't you accept the invitation to a meeting with the Media Freedom Group that brings together hundreds of media, organisations, journalists and media associations, citizens and citizens? What tells you that during 2013, 23 attacks, threats or pressures on journalists were recorded, and this year only the first eight months of 54 cases? When will the government members begin to respect the Public Information Act and the media that prohibits discrimination on any basis? How many journalists are under measures like tracking, recording and covert surveillance in communication, just in case I say? In addition to these issues, which are burning, since we have major problems in our media sphere, questions for the finance minister – Budgetary System Law, Article 27e of item 4th point 2) clearly states that the possible consolidated debt of the Serbian state is 45%. In 2011, the state of Serbia, de facto, is illegally in debt, since the total level of public debt has significantly exceeded that amount and at this point is 62%. Regardless of the good results in reducing public debt, it is necessary for the finance minister, as a government body, to propose an amendment to the law and finally bring reality into line with the law we have in Serbia. So what exactly prevents the minister from proposing a law whereby the level of public debt would be 60%, for example. What is the master criterion and which I think will be reached in the next two years? Also, in the Movement, there has been enough, as with all the honest citizens of Serbia, who look forward to the successes we achieve, has been an exceptional joy because of good indicators when it comes to reducing unemployment. We were delighted to welcome every conference when we heard that unemployment in Serbia was falling and that it was now 10%, and it was 22%. However, after reviewing some indicators, we have seen that there is something that we can and we hope only to interpret as the existence of a paradox. In fact, at a time when unemployment fell from 22% to 11%, we record a total GDP growth that is barely 4% cumulative, and at the same time we have a 15% increase in nominal wages, which is somewhere around, when inflation is rejected, a real increase in wages that is slightly higher than GDP growth. So GDP is growing extremely low, unemployment is falling extremely fast. In the economy, there is no way for this to happen, unless there are some other things, and I would like the minister responsible for work, employment, wrangling and social issues to answer us – is it some paradox and do we have any new contribution to the economic theory in Serbia or is that the result of the changed methodology or, God forbid, the emigration of people from Serbia, who do not afterwards appear at the Bureau? A question for the president of the Serbian Development Agency. 2016 was a year of entrepreneurship. We deeply support the Movement enough is enough, everything that is aimed at improving entrepreneurship in Serbia, because that is what we need. What's our question -- when are we going to get a report on all six categories that were the subject of a year of entrepreneurship, and also when will the Serbian Development Agency do an impact analysis, because you need an impact analysis to know if we're doing the right or the wrong thing, where do we need to step up our efforts as a state, and where do we have to give up if there's no result? So it's very important to measure the intact we have. A question for the Minister of Economy -- when are we going to get one comprehensive analysis of the effects of subsidies? Subsidies are part of, as is called in our media, government policy, it's called eclectic pragmatism, if I'm not mistaken, and it serves to have, whether, more employment, faster GDP growth and things like that. So it's very important to measure the effects, because we have some few partial analyses that have really been doing credible institutions, where we have indicators that they say are extremely encouraging. If the subsidies are extremely good, my question for the Minister of Economy when this analysis is done is – if the effects are good, why don't we increase it at least 10 times? If we have such a mind and it's very good, so we would really like the opposition that it is very good, at least we from the Movement enough is enough? Why don't we give our "know how" to neighboring countries that aren't as successful as we are? For example, Romania or BiH, Montenegro, which only grows 4 to 5% a year, but did not have such a difficult situation five years ago, so we can understand why our GDP growth rate is slower? Why don't we share those experiences with other countries because it's important to us that if we develop this quickly, we have a place to place our goods and services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23349	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Seselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23350	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking two questions. Both for the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic, and the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic. My first question is -- why did the Serbian government allow low-class American diplomat Brian Hoyt You to so harshly violate the dignity of the Republic of Serbia? So, Brian Hoyt T, with his ultimatums he presented to Serbian officials, has made it clear that, of course, contrary to diplomatic practice and good relations, the Republic of Serbia should impose sanctions on the Russian Federation and sign a legally binding agreement on normalising relations with Kosovo. What is normalization anyway? What does the word "normalization" mean? What is it that official Belgrade can still do and has not done about rounding Kosovo's independence? Is that the exchange between the so-called ambassadors? Kosovo and the Republic of Serbia and Kosovo's consent to join the UN? The foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia is quite confusing. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, foreign policy is run by the government, while the president represents the country, the state of Serbia in the country and abroad, and we hear dissonant tones from the Serbian government and diametrically opposite attitudes. Ana Brnabic, Prime Minister responds positively to Hojt Ti's demands and claims Serbia is committed to the European path, while Defence Minister Aleksandar Vulin's statements mark Hoyt Ti as hostile. Is there then a common opinion in the Serbian government? What's symptomatic is that Brian Hoyt T also met with Minister Zoran Mihajlovic. What does Zorana Mihajlovic have to do with Serbia's foreign affairs? We know that Zorana Mihajlovic is an agent of foreign influence and that she can't say a word - a good day without consulting with the US ambassador before that, but that's not her portfolio. Foreign policy isn't her resort. Or might it be Hoyt Ji's demand to speed up the construction of the Nis-Pristina-Tirana highway and do so and to contribute more to the creation of a major Albania's infrastructure? Since this is not one of the state priorities of the Republic of Serbia, it is totally illusory to do so. Keeping all Belgrade officials in front of this diplomat was really embarrassing. On the other hand, the second question is what prevents the Republic of Serbia from granting diplomatic status to members of the Russian humanitarian centre in Nis? We've heard more announcements that it's going to happen, but none of it's going to happen. Members of the Russian humanitarian centre have repeatedly justified their presence in Serbia, not only during the catastrophic floods in 2014, but also in extinguishing multiple fires on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Given the agreement the Republic of Serbia signed with the NATO Pact in 2016, so-called The IPAP Agreement, which has made greater concessions to the criminal military alliance that bombed us than was foreseen between Yugoslavia and the Third Reich of the Trinity Pact, cannot, by the rules of reciprocity, at least, expect the same thing to happen with members of the Russian humanitarian centre in Nis. We think that the Republic of Serbia should be satisfied with the functioning of the Russian humanitarian centre, moreover, the SRS parliamentary group in the AP Vojvodina Assembly has proposed an initiative to establish such a centre in the Vojvodina territory as well. So, what's the more waiting for? Give us reasons why you want to or not grant diplomatic status to Russian aid workers, but I think it's obvious that foreign aggressors have much greater privileges here. That would be my two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23351	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23352	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my first question is for the Department of Justice, for the Attorney General. What will be done against Zoran Zivkovic for the release of Mazrek brothers in 2002 and 104 convicted Albanian terrorists? To remind you, it's a terrible crime in the Orahovac municipality, where girls from 8 to 11 were raped, where Serbs were cut off their hands, their legs, their eyes. The Serbian judiciary ruled against the Mazreka brothers and 104 terrorists, but with the decision of the federal government, which also had Mr. Zoran Zivkovic, all 104 terrorists were released, or sent to Kosovo and Metohija, which was controlled by Albanian terrorists and UNMIK, to endure the sentence they were sentenced to in Serbian prisons. It did not even occur to them to exchange them for the kidnapped Serbs, but they freed them without any conditions and all of them came to Switzerland. Later, if they are destined, they are not destined to be judged there, but released. Number two, what will the judiciary, or the Republic Public Prosecutor Zagorka Dolovac, take against my fellow farmer in an attempt, Zoran Zivkovic, for falsifying official documents, which he has released into "transport" on the alleged disease of Slobodan Milosevic? It never occurred to me in my sleep that one day I would have to advocate the rights of the late Slobodan Milosevic. If this document is a fake, and I believe it is, the prosecution must call on whoever first released this document in the press, it must call him responsible for falsifying documents. I do not believe that it is true, and if so is Mr. Sabic, and the prosecution and the judicial authorities must deal with Zoran Zivkovic for the purpose of providing personal data, or with Mr. Sabic, a double archival. The responsibility of the team is greater because Mrs. Vodnelic and Mrs. Zivkovic, who are allegedly top lawyers, certainly knows what misdemeanor Mr. Zivkovic committed by bringing out this forged document. The next question is what will the tax police, law enforcement and prosecution authorities take against Zoran Zivkovic and the Anti-Corruption Agency, because for a time my fellow farmer was also a national MP, as well as the director of the Empres company from Nis, which is not allowed by the law of this Anti-Corruption Agency. Either that agency has become yellow, or there are also double standards in dealing with politicians and their violations. I'm also asking what the tax police are going to do because it's from the company while Zoran Zivkovic decided to disappear 189.000 bottles of wine, which were allegedly given to a concignancy sale, which is not allowed by law for domestic companies, and they're losing track of each of them, which is the evasion of more than 17 million dinars, tax evasion? So I ask the D.A.'s office, ask the IRS what they'll do about these, for me already established, violations? I am also asking what will the prosecution do about the act of religion against Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic, who, by changing the UN Resolution, changed UNMIK's powers, transferred to EULEX and thus did irreparable damage to the Republic of Serbia by eliminating China and Russia from the process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23353	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23354	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Arsic, ladies and gentlemen, I have a few questions and they are all referred to the same, let me say, address, which is the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, but also the Directorate for Building Land and Construction of Belgrade. It is an issue and an affair that is affecting the citizens of Belgrade, which was not sufficiently talked about in public. The question is -- how much did it cost the citizens of Belgrade, but also Serbia, seven metres high top of the Mosta sawmill on Ada? Secondly, why has he never set that seven-foot-high tip of the bridge saw on Adi, which is a particular reason for that? Is it true that such a building tip of the sawmill was not intended for the original project at all, but also for the existing building permit? If it's true, then where does the idea of accessing it come from? And the last question is, who was doing this project? Now, why is this important? It's important because here you can see on this case all the haughtiness and insolence or the essence of theirs, when I say theirs I mean Gilas and the company, understanding politics and dealing with this business. So, first they do the project in one way, they get a building permit, and then some smart guy comes up with something to add, and then they order the part added, and then they do it. All that nice citizens pay, too much pay, and eventually that one piece ends up in the warehouse, ends up in the shed. This shows either negligence, absolute negligence, and the lack of interest of former city leaders or, on the other hand, full riding or, on the third hand, something I doubt, which is a pre-prepared fraud, a pre-prepared kidnapping, the money of Serbian and Belgrade citizens, I am apostrophysing. Why am I saying all this, so that missing pylon top is bathing shape, seven meters long, and it's made of stainless steel. It's made of eight pipes interconnected with rings in each place. So a structure like that can't be cheap. Absolutely can't be cheap. I'm not expert in assessing the value of such a structure now, which is why I'm asking those who are professional about it, but I'm absolutely sure the citizens of Belgrade are free to say, idioticness had to set aside a large sum of money. And as if there weren't enough affairs, as if there weren't too many affairs, as if the whole Adi bridge project wasn't really one big affair, as if the bridge wasn't in itself problematic in terms of price, as if it wasn't enough that the price of the bridge with the corresponding interest and all other costs amounted to more than 550m euros. counterpart Tomic says more than 600m euros. For example, I will provide information that the precalculation for the planned bridge, a tram bridge on Savi, is such that it will cost about 40m euros. It's almost the same bridge as the bridge on Ada. Almost the same bridge, same according to the number of tapes, the same length, the same width, and this one cost 160m euros, with no access traffic, and this one will cost 40m. How it's going to cost 40 million, so it's a price without a combination, no installation, no corruption, no bribes, no transgage -- franca, without me to you, that's why it's such a price. That's why it's going to cost 40 million. Just remember that for the purchase of 30 trams, they took a loan, a commercial loan of 80m euros, to get trams that, by the way, they couldn't even use, because the trams weren't even ready for the tracks we have. And where did those trams end up? Not to mention, when purchasing the bus, they were purchased exclusively by a foreign bidder from Solaris, not by the local, etc. That's the essence of their government.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23355	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing a joint principled single search with proposals for the law in paragraphs 1 to 7 of the agenda. According to Article 90 on the position of the First Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend today's session to attend Mladen Sarcevic, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Dr. Dusan Vujović Minister of Finance, Prof. Vladimir Džamić and Anamarija Vicek State Secretarys at the Ministry of Education and Technological Development, Nenad Mijailović State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Gabriela Grujic Garić, Vesna Nedeljković and Dr. Aleksandar Pajić, Deputy Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Sladjan Velinov Director of the Agency for the Protection of Ionian Emissions and Nuclear Security of Serbia, Branko Drcelic, Director of Public Debt Management at the Ministry of Finance, Ivana Avramović and Branko Brajić Assistants of the Agency for the Protection of Ionian radiation and Aleksandar Marković Head of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Education and Technological Development. The word has been given by MP Dejan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23356	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers welcome to all your associates. It's a good thing you're all here today. In fact, you're one team, a large number of people working on a very important and difficult job, and it's good for us MPs and the public to see who your associates are. Minister, I listened and read the stenograms of your opening presentation. In 30 minutes, you haven't mentioned a single key word when anyone is doing an education system reform. Three key words are the future, vision, security. These issues of education reform must always be answered. What's the future with these laws? Where is Serbia in 20.30, what is its vision and will generations of young people have certain security with the laws with which you have come to parliament today? Why am I saying this? You know for yourself that every educational cycle lasts for 20 and 30 years, so anyone who intends to intervene in the field of education must have a certain point in the future that it seeks. It's always accomplished in two ways. The first is that you have to have the ability to predict what the world or society will look like in the foreseeable future and then intervene in that direction. Another method is that they use developed modern European countries, good educators and strategies, which is that they actually create a vision that society in the future should look like. Then that's how they intervene in education policy. Where are you with these educational laws? In the first or second model? I honestly don't see it there or here, so I don't see it in the first model or the second model? Where is Serbia in 20 or 30 years with these educational laws? What's the future for young people? What does Serbia look like? Do they have certain security? You did not answer those questions and then impose ourselves on us or we are giving answers that this is actually the continuation of that campaign in 2012, when Serbia was advertised as a country of cheap labour on the most influential and largest television network. You don't have to react so hard when we mention it, because you started talking about it in 2012. I have a few more questions. Who worked on these laws? Why were the working groups secret? Who selected the people who worked on these laws? Why were institutions not involved that are important for education, universities, trade unions, research centres? About national councils and not to speak, you've cleared them with the past law. Who actually worked on these laws? Minister, there is no country, modern in Europe that has been doing education reform in a closed room without windows. It doesn't exist. Poland trembled for two years, 1998 and 1999 when they discussed education reform. Everyone discussed, a large number of people and other countries participated even, but when they brought and reformed education, their high school students achieved the result of the Pisa test in the first 10 countries. Poland today is the most developed economy after communist countries. Your actions by the Minister, both in the previous law and in the laws with which you are present in front of the Assembly or are contrary or even denying one of the basic documents in the field of education. I mean the Development Strategy by 2020. On this strategy, Mr. Minister, there were some very important experts working on it. She went through a serious procedure, from very dynamic public debates, from foreign and domestic reviews, even were hired by the opponents to make their comments to make the strategy better. And now, some secret groups deny one such document. So, with that kind of reform, I can't agree personally. My colleagues talked a lot about dual education. I have to agree with the fears we've brought out. What does Serbia look like in 20 years? What I am trying to do and what I could support is to separate society, i.e. education that will support new information, communication technologies, digital transformation of society, knowledge society, education society that will create leaders, functional leaders, or we will, on the other hand, what you propose, develop these profiles of two-year, three-year and create a new social layer of young people without a future. So, I think there's a collision somewhere in the concept of development of education between us and you. What's mine, in addition to the fears brought out by my colleagues, is that this kind of education will create an additional disparity between the regions. What am I talking about? Statistics show that people or children from poorer regions are dominantly selecting three-year profiles. They are based on statistics from poorer families and instead of in regions where additional educational support is needed, they will get less. So the poorer they will be, the poorer they will be, and the richer they will be. That's the concept of a minister, we can't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23357	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23358	Just to understand, maybe, in 23 minutes it was true, and not 30, I keep some things to say in the final word. The introduction was only about what we're going to talk about today, and this is what we're talking about, and this is the vision of the future, security is already there for a year in the local public and there's just a lack of elements to systemize it. By sticking to the above mentioned education strategy in 2020, we noticed that, and we said that the last time in the Assembly, there was no good active plan that could support and implement it. We are going to start now for the first time since this year to talk, firstly about the aspect of the possibility of using space, single-minded work leads to the change that we are talking about here, the conditions that need to be gained, teacher training, the conditions are laws, the conditions of national qualifications, the conditions of the national curricula are comprehensive, the conditions are, therefore, many other situations that have to be prepared to get into that. We quickly entered V class to introduce the second cycle of IT as a serious object for programming. Few European countries do. You can see that. But if we're talking about total middle education and basic education, we're talking about a segment that now takes up only 7% to 8%, and from so much dust, as if it doesn't need a working class at all, like there's just going to be some kind of internal work. You know that's impossible. So we have a very clear vision of what home education is and where it should go. What may have been undetected last time, and more importantly, I am glad that it was so finely accepted and prescribed, which is the “ZOSOL” System Education Act, and look only at what was done in 2000, at a time when the government was Zoran Djindjic and when it was started, the initial learning, learning concepts. It's a change that's going to happen in education that gives you further quality. High school reforms, I mentioned yesterday, is over. It should be 40% of that reform, now it's 22%, we've raised to 25%. So we are already in the first year of the preparation of many elements of the mentioned strategy. So to replace the thesis, there is a very clear principle of system law, efficiency and quality here. To achieve quality, with whom? With directors where half the school directors, here's every day you criticize here, they don't meet their obligations. They have units and twos in external evaluation, how do they implement it? Who's the one who's gonna do all this and get better at school? Here, we'll have SBS training for 80,000 people, and they'll have bad managers. So, we went the other way, to see the role of the state in this system law, so we took another step to get training that is now starting for good directors is a kind of training, they're going to get a license under a reduced procedure, and that's going to verify and acknowledge their good work so far. It's all the conditional things you have to do, we talked about Finland, it's been there for years. I understand our impatience here why it can't suddenly and understand our situation in the budget and the wealth of the state, and the richer states have been lucky because they're doing it faster and under more favourable circumstances. I don't want to answer everything now, I just want to answer everyone, I have the right to the final word, so I'm going to tell you what's been done and what we want. But I agree, without some vision and security, the future certainly doesn't exist. What's very important, I'll repeat it once again, because dual education is mostly the main topic here and yesterday, and that kind of education is needed, a great need and is not foreseen for the poor, we change the rights and regulations of these days around the scholarship, about the right to a home. Can't have a poor kid in the middle of nowhere. They'll be set up, they'll get the standard, they'll get all the conditions, the rich and scholarships. It's the role of the state. The rich will pay for it if they can, if they can make up for it. There will be no such division, simply if there is no job in some socio-humanist profession right now, so there are extra people on the bureau, and why don't you try yourself in one of your young lives through work. It's not a shame, it's not something the country doesn't need. Information and information society is the task of this government and we have taken steps of seven miles without even money. We've entered an electronic log. It was done in Croatia for five years. 75% of the work with over 250 million European money has been completed. With great enthusiasm, it has gone into serious reforms, now that we get to some critical point, it will be noticed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23359	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragana Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23360	The previous speaker injured Article 107 because he did not tell the truth. Since we come from the same local self-government, as his vision, that is, his former authorities, was in Sokobanja when children at minus 27 had short hours in winter jackets, and he forgot to say that in Sokobanja, this government invests 80 million dinars in school reconstruction.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23361	My colleague, you can't do this in the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Nikolic, you have no right to a replica. He has no right to harm his Rules of Procedure, no right to a replica. The word of the Messenger of the people is Krsto Janjušević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23362	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, dual education, and perhaps one of the greatest advantages of dual education is the development of the tendency of young people to entrepreneurship. Studies say young people who have had the opportunity to gain practical knowledge in 15% to 20% opt for development, more specifically to start their own business. Where they have not had the opportunity to gain practical knowledge in just 3% to 5%, they decide to start their own business. The difference and advantage of dual education is seen and what this will bring in the future, how many young and successful people will bring to Serbia and how much it will bring to Serbia through major economic growth. Therefore, it is necessary to observe through the prism that Serbia has many talented children in all areas and dual education is the basis where we will detect them and where we will follow them on the right path. All the great works, namely the greatest number of great works in technology and science, have created the youth of their authors. So dual education and the possibility that young people have training in a company, where they will gain practical knowledge, is to be considered a free textbook, it is a free textbook. More specifically, it's a textbook that financed you in some way to learn, but the students there are not to make money, the students are there to become. Dual education is very important because it in some way creates awareness among young people about the responsibility for their own development. In that part of dual education where young people prepare for work in the company they work in, the best example is, one of the best examples, a lot of good examples, is Bosch company in the Caves, which employs all students of the Technical School who attended classes in the previous two years through dual education. So, great example. Through this law we will only multiply the example of good practice, multiply jobs, multiply, increase economic growth more precisely. It's a shame the opposition didn't hear anything more concrete. Let's just say you mentioned an example of new directions for the air force. We have companies dealing with the production of ultra-light aircraft, but it didn't interest the opposition people to talk about it. They talked about the decomposed moments that arrived in Serbia. Perhaps he could learn at school, and he could certainly have been more careful. Don't spit on your own, don't spit on your own in front of the whole world. Let's have some dignity, let's respect something, let's keep something quiet at least be there for sure it'll bring you some petty political point. Speaking of those, as they say, decomposed crafts, they're very powerful crafts. But I'd like to point out, these drones and those flashes may be able to avoid the S-300 system, avoid the S-400 system, but they can hardly escape the DS-2000 system. According to that system as they land, right in "The Iron." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23363	The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23364	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Sarcevic, we've been discussing this set of laws the second day, and it may be even time, given that the discussion is nearing its end, to sum up the arguments we've heard. I must tell you that this discussion is still much lower than what I expected. This is the fourth congregation meeting in which I participate, and we have often been changed by laws relating to education. That may be the biggest problem, which is mostly done in a song, and when Alexander Vukic comes from Switzerland, and there he hears about dual education, the next day others appear, so they say – now we all have to. This is what the people said: “The frog saw a horse being raised up, and so did she. ” As for the arguments presented here, I'm going to reverse the situation a little bit, and start from what we've heard from the ruling coalition's representatives. We've heard about everything and everything, about bridges, about subways, a little bit here's some broken-down planes, we've heard, I can say more freely about Balsha's future wife than about the dual education itself, and that shows how many MPs of the ruling coalition have prepared for this debate and how much they really understand it. They talked about dual education, both Austria and Switzerland, those who apparently never set foot there, who do not understand what the system is in those countries and what it is that separates Serbia from those countries. If you're talking in Austria, especially Switzerland, it's arranged countries. Kenna, sit down. (Radoslav Milojičić: Adjudication of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Arsic. These are arranged lands. Minister, stop talking and listen a little bit. Be polite, listen to the messenger who speaks to you a little bit.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23365	Comrade Sarčević, the minister listens to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23366	He doesn't listen, he doesn't listen, he listens, he listens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23367	He's listening to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23368	He was a high school professor for many years, and he needs to know how he reacts.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23369	Do not warn the minister of what he will do.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23370	It is mine to warn the minister, for I am His Majesty's MP, and he is a minister, a civil servant who should behave accordingly. If you don't understand, Mr. Arsic, then I will warn him.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23371	Mr. Charcevic, it's me who runs the session. When you're in my shoes, you do it. Sharovich, please ask for the word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23372	You could have declared me a "mortadella", and it wouldn't surprise me either, but I'm still Sarovic, I'm not Sarcevic, Mr Arsic. Let's get back to the point. The countries you've been talking about have been arranged countries where these systems have been created for years. Serbia is not such a country. We from the SRS are apriors against this kind of education. So, against education with work, and that's one of the remarks, because dual education means nothing. You should have called - labour education law, Serbian, clear, simple, short. There's no need to introduce those foreign expressions. The fact that he may have gone out in public in the last year is not a reason to introduce him into the law. There's a lot in the law that you write in a way that just doesn't fit the law. The law must be precise. Every word, every one of them has to have its own meaning, and you don't. You write descriptively, and I'll show you later on some of these things. More than half of the ruling coalition MPs read with some papers and rifles. Would you allow that in your high school? I checked in with the Rules of Procedure yesterday, so the session was interrupted, to say that one of the colleagues was reading really well, but she obviously brought the wrong paper from home. No one will react to that, of course. The basic question is whether there will be abuses or not? I didn't like what you said yesterday, it seems too confident, that you as a minister will not allow any child to be abused. You may have good intentions, but you certainly do not look like Superman, and no one can take on such a commitment. I am absolutely sure that there will be abuse on different sides, both by employers and by students, because it is life and it cannot be avoided. You will have great problems and find employers, especially in smaller areas, because if you start from what the economy of Serbia looks like today. Well, half of Serbia is devastated, half of Serbia has no economy, no industry. How will you find suitable employers there? Employers should be interested in passing this licensing process, including at all. So, you're going to have this problem, and I wouldn't exactly agree that the sole reason is to create some kind of slave labor force, because education with work existed in Serbia before and should exist, and certainly that whoever develops certain professional skills will find a job, even if it's in another company. You're propagating here and writing, in law itself, you're saying that one of the principles of equal opportunities is to provide equal conditions for education without discrimination, given... And then you list some pointless things. All right, gender, race, national, ethnic, religious, but what black cultural background? What do you need that for? Who wrote that? So you say further – sexual orientation. Are you going to share children of 14, 15, 16 years of age based on sexual orientation and do you think that sexual orientation should be exhibited at 14, 15, 16 years in high schools? I really don't think you should. Well, you say you prevent discrimination based on the place of residence, the material condition. It's just impossible. Don't put into the law what I guess is quite clear that it's impossible to implement. How are you going to prevent this based on the place of residence of discrimination? You won't, nor will you prevent discrimination based on material conditions. So these are some things that are impossible. Then you say in Article 7. – in the preparation of the registration plan, among other things, conditions should be provided for the inclusion of students with developmental and disability and students from sensitive groups. A sensitive group is not a legal term. What black sensitive group? So everyone's going to think about who's sensitive and what's going to get through it. Don't let your answer be, well, we have good intentions. You'll be the minister for maybe another year, maybe six months, maybe three, you don't know, but it's your duty to make the law so precise that it prevents any abuse in the future, and that's not done. In the next article, you say other stakeholders can participate. Those aren't legal terms and that's not good. What might be one of the good parts of these laws is that it goes into effect now after adoption, but it won't apply for another two years. I'm, right to tell you, sure this will be one of those laws that we'll put off. We often do so in the National Assembly and it is not something new. You, Mr. Minister, claim these are serious laws, but I'm asking you why, then, the debate is not serious and why do you allow yourself to be humiliated and discussed seven points simultaneously? Seven points that have nothing to do with the relationship, because the Rules of Procedure on the Work of the National Assembly says - The National Assembly may decide to conduct a joint principle search on several draft laws which are on the agenda of the same session, and are conditioned or mutually linked. You, Mr. Minister, are a smart and experienced man and I ask you in what way, to explain to me, is the proposal for a law on dual education mutually conditional and linked to the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on Nuclear Security? Come on, please explain, let's see what the nuclear security convention has to do with...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23373	You're bringing the end, colleague Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23374	How much longer do I have?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23375	It's gone right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23376	Ten minutes, I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23377	You don't have ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23378	Here, as you've seen, just when I started on the first law, it's already over. Are you ashamed, Mr. Minister... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23379	The word has been made by Minister Mr. Sarcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23380	I'm not ashamed, let me tell you right now, nothing. I'm proud to be in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I want to tell you that. Has anyone seen what the Swiss are doing? It's nice to see what they're doing smarter than we are, and there's something to learn. What you said, four of these laws are connected, make one complementary relationship, is a dual part of high school, primary and preschool being a whole with a passed law ever since. It's not my fault I can't get in with all the laws, it would take too long, and this is too long, and it's a set of laws that are very connected. The conventions were, of course, plus, sure they weren't and they just had to get in line when we got really big trouble not to adopt it in the past few years. I don't think she's minding having a separate discussion with each other. Otherwise, not for you, but for the public, the previous speaker said something, we have very interesting dual profiles, not just for aviation. For example, you have profiles that are related to the exploration of oil and gas from NIS, where Zrenjanin provides for a further continuation of the education of these boys and girls in Russia at the most prestigious Russian universities. This relationship is good, it exists with all the countries we work well with and whose experiences we can find. Otherwise, I wrote down everything you said very carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23381	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Balša Bozovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23382	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm advocating Article 107, the dignity of the National Assembly. Minister Sarcevic, Mr Arsic, has said for a little while that the Swiss are smarter than we are and thus insulted our own people and citizens of our country. I don't think the Swiss are smarter than us, I think their political elites, especially their government is smarter than our government, so she managed to establish a rule of law and make it possible, through the rule of law, for the economy of Switzerland and other sectors to develop, unlike Serbia that doesn't know the rule of law. So you are the problem, Mr. Sarcevic, not the people in Serbia and not the citizens of Serbia who are much smarter than you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23383	I can't give you an answer to the breach of the Rules of Procedure on Rule 107, which wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but a chance... (Balsa Bozovic: You weren't in the O.R. That's what's keeping me from tracking the transmission. (Balsa Bozovic: Where, on the phone? ) No, but in the cafe with you, Balša Bozovic, from where you follow the events. That's my answer to the fake violation of Rule 107. (Balsa Bozovic: I would not sit with you. Don’t be brazen and rude. So this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this is abuse of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Aleksandar Martinovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23384	Article 27, Mrs. Gojkovic. Yesterday I invited Balša Bozovic to bring his index, here I brought mine. Look how nervous they are. As soon as the indexes are mentioned, those who keep talking about how we from SNS bought some diplomas, PhDs, etc. get nervous right away. Here's my index, Mr. Bozovic, and I'm asking now - where's yours?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23385	MP, I've released you exactly 27 seconds as much as Balša Bozovica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23386	I want to say, Mrs. Gojkovic, that we who bought the diplomas, who we forged the PhDs, who do not belong to this civil elite that belongs to Balša Bozovic, have as president of the party of the man who, here, is a copy of the index by Aleksandr Vukic. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23387	Thank you, MP. We'll do it further in the discussion. I've exactly let you go as much as Arsic released Balša Bozovic and there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: sit down. ) Do not shout and “sit down ” cannot speak to other MPs. I don't know how long it takes to sit down, Balsa Bozovic, since she's sitting down. Don't, please, this is not the level of parliament representing the citizens of Serbia. Don't yell. Nemanja Sarovic: Replica. You didn't get a replica. The word has Serbian Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23388	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens of Serbia, we are witnessing a historic reform today in Serbia, education reform. Education reform is perhaps the most important for our society because of what our education in this century will look like and how our children will get school and what knowledge they will gain and how ready they will get out of their schools and colleges, it depends on what our country will look like and whether it will exist in the next century. As I listened to the remarks, if they can be called objections, it is more demagogy from the opposition's ranks, I can say, thank God their time is up, because this is the time for Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia and for the sake of Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23389	Nemanja Sarovic is being warned because she is obstructing parliament's work by yelling at parliament's president as the MP speaks.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23390	It is good, as I said, that their time has run out because it is time for Serbian citizens to win, for our children to learn, for schools to be better and better and for this country to be more and more successful. I heard a remark that we as a government have no vision. What they certainly have a vision, they have a vision of their hands being in our pockets, again in the pockets of Serbian citizens. It will never happen again in this country. The opposition's sticky fingers will never be in the pockets of Serbian citizens again. What makes dual education very important for us and for children in Serbia? It's important because in previous times, we've had cases of high school kids coming out, and they don't have practical knowledge. Our children were mostly good or excellent theorists, but weak practitioners. That's what we need to change in our education system, that when our kids get out of school they have concrete knowledge, that they have a certain working experience, that when they apply for jobs and when they pass tests, they show that they have practical skills and that they will benefit from a private employer, and if they don't work with some employer, what's even better for them, that they're ready for a competition, as I said at the beginning, and that they're going to start their own company, their own business, and that they're doing something good from their lives. It's also good that we've seen these two days of discussion that some people don't want anything to change in our education system because they see their chance in it. If there are no changes, if this society is bad, or if it taps in place, it's an opportunity for them to maybe come back sometime and maybe somebody picks them again. Every change, a change for the better, moves them about to return to the coat of arms of Serbian citizens and to rob this people again. I am convinced, if they have the opportunity, in some of the next elections, that they will not succeed and that citizens will also through these discussions and through exactly how they see the system of education see how they see the future of this country. I am sure that our country led by Alexander Vukic and the government that we have today can only go forward and live in it better and that there will be a better place for students to stay in our country and open their private companies here and that our private companies with these young people are spreading further around the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23391	Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23392	Mrs. Gojkovic, you've hurt your ankle. 103, 104 and 27. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. I'll start with the right to the replica, that's the first right you've hurt. I picked up the line until you were in the O.R. until you walked in. I was right about that replica. I've been discussing a normal and civilized tone with the minister. He came after me, misread my presentation, and you denied me the right that you gave to all MPs before that. So there was no reason to raise tension, and the tension was raised again by representatives of the ruling coalition who appear to be abusing the Rules of Procedure, which you tolerate and allow. Then you told Mr. Martinovic – here, I gave you 27 seconds, and then it went on and on, although it was quite clear that he was not talking about the law or any particular injury by the chairman, which he could only indicate, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I told your colleague Arsic, who presided at that time, to tell you. I had previously reported for the replica, when you responded – there is no right to reply, I decided in accordance with Article 27. I have one thing to tell you – you decide in accordance with Article 104, he does not give you the right to determine it based on your free will or your current mood, so to say that there is now a replica, now there is no replica, now I can hurt the Rules of Procedure, now I can't. You decide based on the standards that are in the Rules of Procedure. If they are fulfilled, you are obliged to provide for the right to replication, and the right to point out the breach of the Rules of Procedure always exists. You can never deny it. You have to listen first.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23393	Thank you very much. The amount of words you've spoken can't cloud the essence, which is that you're misusing the Rules of Procedure's injury to speak as long as you can, because your MP group has wasted time. Article 104, you've been here for a minimum of a year, not to count the previous internship, speaks very clearly about the previous rights of MPs in the exercise of the rights of St. 1 and 2 - is decided exclusively by the President of the National Assembly. Everything else in line with your efforts to say something else at this session. So you're not right at all, and you're misusing the breach of the Rules of Procedure for who knows which time and therefore you're devising the existence of an infringement institute of the Rules of Procedure. The word is Maja Vidinović. You have three minutes and 19 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23394	Thank you, President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, you know, the largest number of laws this government comes to parliament with is not correspondence with reality, without any vision, without any goal, completely not correspondence with reality. Unfortunately, this law that we are talking about today, which is the proposal for a law on dual education, is the most accurate vision of this government. The most accurate vision and messages to citizens that the Serbian Progressive Party, as the government sees Serbian citizens and much more importantly, the future of the country. In a few key things, as long as it allows me, I just want ministers, and I hope you listen carefully, to distract me. The trend in economic development in the modern world is such that there is lifelong learning. What does that really mean? This means that all responsible governments, everywhere in the world, are putting education and education reforms as a priority and trying to keep young people in some form of education as long as possible. This government, we witness it every day, puts three-year dual education priority. So we're coughing not only for modern tendencies, but for responsibility for the future of this country. When we talk about human rights, it's a segment that we talked about a little today, and I think it's very important, you know, when you set up dual education as a priority, not a way to motivate young people, to educate themselves, to stay in this country, to give them a boost, to compete in the best solutions, so you abuse the poor position of students who, because of their material status, will at some point choose something that is necessary. That's how you deny him the right to education. When we talk about it, we talk about the constitutional category, that all children and all students have the right to quality education, and you, as the greatest innovation, are setting them something that is dual education. It is an unacceptable position for students who are in dual education in case the company where they are working is out of the country, when the company we give subsidies ceases to receive these subsidies and decides to flee from the country, when those children work on some machines that are out of the way in the modern world and such machines no longer exist. Respecting the weather, I just want to draw attention to a few things. Youth unemployment is due to the atmosphere in society, because we have collapsed institutions, because we have no rule of law. Young people won't get a job because we don't have dual education, it's an incredibly malicious bribery that you're offering to the citizens. As SNS sees Serbian citizens, this is the SNS programme for the future and that is the most accurate description of this law. What a dark picture of the future. This indirectly deprives the opportunity to educate young people. This is the abuse of the poor and this is a terrible message that we are the society of the future of the cheap labour of the humiliated young people, by the authorities, and it all comes from the authorities, where people with suspicious diplomats sit, with suspicious PhDs, all of which are qualified to be at the jobs where they are today. So this is the programme of the Serbian Progressive Party -- a humiliated and cheap workforce, which is a helmet for the modern world and these are the reasons why this law is wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23395	The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23396	I thank you, Mrs. Gojkovic. To answer this civil elite that does not know who Nadežda Petrovic is, who Milutin Milankovic is and who is Slobodan Jovanovic and who is constantly giving lectures on some forged diplomats. Here, I brought my index today. I, who am stupid, who am uneducated, who do not belong to the elite, Mr Bozovic did not bring his index, and I have photographed the index of the president of our party and the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. If you allow me, since we have nothing to hide, we are a people's party, we are open to the people, we want the people to know everything about us. Here, I will now, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, dear friends, read to you just some reviews received by this ignorant, uneducated man who doesn't belong to the civil elite who belongs to those of the Democratic Party, and his name is Alexander Vukic has graduated from the Law School in Belgrade, with an average score of 9.44. From the introduction to the right he got... [[Maya Vidinovic: Excuse me, what kind of replica is this?]] (Alexandra Jerkov: And where is Tomislav Nikolic's index?) Here, look how nervous they are. I don't know what's wrong with them. He obtained 10 from the introduction to law, from general sociology, he received 10 from constitutional law, from the political economy of Mr. Labus, therefore, from someone who was his political opponent and political imposter, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who was ignorant and uneducated, got 10. At Mrs Vesna Rakić Vedinelic, if I am not mistaken, the distinguished representatives of the party Zoran Zivkovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23397	Time. Thank you. That's enough tens.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23398	I'll keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23399	He just said you made a commitment yesterday to bring the index. All right, everything's gonna be all right when there's the elements to the replica, you're gonna keep going. The same rule applies to Nemanja Sarovic, Article 104(3). Here you are, MP Marko Djurisic, according to the Rules of Procedure. [[Balsa Bozovic: Here's a time for replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23400	Thank you, Chairman. I think you just hurt that Article 104. Rules of Procedure, Rule 3, which gives you the right, you decide on the right of an MP to receive the word for replica. It is your right. But it's very important here to determine how you use your right. So, you use your right so that SNS MPs, your MP groups, can get a word whenever they ask for it, regardless of whether the conditions laid down in Article 1 and 2 of Articles 104 have been met and the opposition MPs can never get it when the conditions are met, because you are calling for Article 3, which gives you, as chairman, the right to do so. And that is very important, to determine how you use the Rules of Procedure here, in which way you abuse your right, rise above the position of the chairman, who should treat all MPs equally and only give the right to reply to the MPs of your MPs whenever they ask, whether or not the conditions of St. 1 and 2 have been met. I think that should be repeated here, and we will repeat every time, that it would be clear to those citizens who look at you in what way you have come up with a debate in this House, not giving the same rights to all MPs. I'm not saying that the Rules of Procedure is bad, he's written as it's written, I say that you apply it inconsistencies, inconsistencies, tending only to your colleagues, from your parliamentary group to report here whenever they want and talk about anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23401	Of course, you only said this to offend me, but it's no problem, and you said yourself that article 104 is talking about the President or the Chairman... .
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23402	Of course I said everything to offend you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23403	Thank you for throwing so you won't let me answer, that just speaks of you MP and your intentions, of course, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23404	Your behavior says that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23405	My behaviour will be judged by Serbian citizens in the elections, so much for your insults. Article 104 is very clear, you are saying that you should consult with the writer of this Rules of Procedure, which is Nenad Konstantinović and counterpart Gordana Komic, who has been more than rigorously applying this Rules of Procedure. But that, and yes, they will testify to that, will be witnessed by parliamentary groups. Thank you, thank you for throwing all the time, it's no problem, it's a matter of education. This will be witnessed by the entire parliamentary groups who have been excluded and expelled from the session here for several months... .
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23406	Not like you, will, will.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23407	And while you're at it, please see how a nice MP of the opposition is doing who says that it's the Rules of Procedure's injuries and then takes a phone call and talks to someone outside the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23408	I consult with the author of the Rules of Procedure, you said I should consult.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23409	This picture says more than anything I'm going to say today, that's right. Thank you, MP, many of you have helped me, since the entire public of Serbia has seen you chat, while the president of the Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, is trying to explain, yes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23410	How could you be wrong?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23411	Thank you very much, a minute's break for the opposition's MPs to embodies, chat, talk, etc. (Alexandra Jerkov: Can you be less rude? I can't speak any less. Yeah, I can talk less. When I sit in the bench, then you warn me why I speak. Figure out what you want from the chairman, but what I promise you is that I won't throw out all the MP groups that aren't in the O.R. at all. At least I don't talk to you with my hands in my pockets, so much about the elite. (Radoslav Milojic: The break seems to me a minute. You take a break from 15 minutes, and you leave after five minutes. Nor do I sit on the back of a chair in parliament. (Radoslav Milojic): So where do I sit, I don't have a pillow. Go ahead, hit me, insult me, no problem at all. Everyone has their own voters, you probably represent your own. Me and my God, that's right. (Radoslav Milojic): And you don't have any voters? ) [[after breaks]] I thank the MP for talking about Serbian citizens who went to the polls. Well done. Thank you very much. Let's move on. The word has Tanja Tomašević Damnjanović Article 104 and Article 3. Here you go. [[Maya Vidinovic: I have the right to replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23413	Thank you. Dear President, Mr. Minister, with fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament. Today, we have an extremely important proposal for a law on dual education, which allows for a systematic, rational and gradual approach to the introduction and development of dual education, with a comprehensive view of the process from the start to the end of education. Also, a clearly defined system of school rights and obligations, employers, students, should ensure that more companies and schools are involved in a new model of practical teaching, aligning education with the needs of the economy and the possibility of companies getting appropriate staff, and students of adequate knowledge, skills and skills, thus enabling faster and easier employability of young people. By applying the Law on secondary education and education, it regulates self-practical and professional practice, which the school can carry out in collaboration with the company, institution, other organisation or other legal person, but does not specify the conditions under which this cooperation should take place, i.e. through learning through work in the real working environment. Therefore precise legal solutions are necessary with clearly regulated rights and obligations, which will link the interests of the state, employers and workers and students, and professional education, to the function of economic growth, development. Article 11 The draft law is taxed on the conditions which the employer must fulfil, for the purpose of carrying out learning through work, which concerns the performance of the work that enables the implementation of learning content through the work prescribed by the relevant plan and programme, teaching and learning, space, equipment and teaching means for work, the number of licensed managers, ensuring the application of the safety and health measures at work, verifying compliance with the conditions of employers to conduct learning through work, the Business Chamber of Serbia, which educates the Committee for the Determination of Conditions in this process, to carry out learning through work. The presence of students in companies is defined by the curricula and the programme. Dual education is based on the obligation that all in this process be managed by the best interests of students, in accordance with principles such as the partnership of schools and employers, the establishment of a social partnership at local level, professionalism, ethics, quality assurance, career management and employability, accessibility, relevance, passivity, lifelong learning and choice rights and equal opportunities principles. Unlike our opposition colleagues who have said that this law is bad, that it is immoral, that it will introduce a slave system and that criticise everything that is good for this country and for the citizens of Serbia, and that they have the least right to do so, because we all know it well and the citizens of Serbia know what happened during their rule, how they ruined this country and brought it to the brink of bankruptcy. Serbia's Progressive Party, President Aleksandar Vucic, believes dual education is a very important topic for Serbia's future and therefore we worry about the future of this country and the future of these young people. We have to change our habits, realize that while we're learning, we have to work, and also while we're working, we have to study our whole lives. Dual education is necessary because of employment, GDP growth, living standards, European integration, for all the most important issues for which we have to give the best results. It is extremely important because the country's economic growth is based on the growth of industry, as industry faces a huge lack of educated labour. Dual education raises competences for faster employment of young people, encourages entrepreneurial spirit among young people. Dual education, meaning a fundamental, deep and strategic change in Serbia and the SNS will support the bill's proposal in a voting day, as well as any other proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23414	Here you are, Maja Vidinović, Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23415	President, right after the injury I applied for the word of Article 103, and you are obliged to give me the word, to point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which you did, giving the word to Mr Martinovic, who answered for the replica of my discussion and brutally abused the Rules of Procedure, which he is doing right now. We know that fellow Martinovic is prone to read private tweets of citizens, the court's verdict, and here's Alexander's index... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23416	The breach of the Rules of Procedure does not apply to discussions. (Maya Vidinović: I explain all this. You do not explain, but you explain what he said. You said I hurt by not giving you a replica, and then you started talking about Alexander Martinovic. (Maya Vidinovic: I have said well Article 103 and Article 104 is a replica and you should know that. ) Thank you very much for reminding me of the contents of the Rules of Procedure. Let's see, Article 103, and what do you even explain?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23417	Member of the 103rd President, don't read anything I didn't say.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23418	You started talking about him.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23419	Article 103. You violated the Rules of Procedure by giving Mr. Martinovic a replica of my exposure. It was no replica, but the abuse of this Rules of Procedure and let me explain in three sentences what I say, which is that you violated the Rules of Procedure, giving the word to Mr Martinovic. This injury, respecting the Rules of Procedure, looks like this – Mr. Martinovic, as a prone to read private tweets, to label them, to show photos, to read court judgments here today and comment on them, and today he reads indices and reviews that Alexander Vukic received and the way he finished...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23420	He can't hurt the Rules of Procedure. I'm just explaining the injury. Please listen to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23421	If that's Alexander Vukic's greatest achievement, I'm going to...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23422	It can't be like this. I see you agreed to insult Alexander Martinovic today, out of the question. What's so funny? [[Laughter in the O.R.]] It's funny in cafes, and it's not in parliament. So this parliament is either going to be a place of respect, or it's going to be what you want it to be, to bring down that level to shout out -- a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then we're going to say what we want. The injuries of the Rules of Procedure are not real. The People's Messenger Milovan Krikapic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23423	Thank you. Honored chairman, respected ministers with associates, ministers and respected colleagues. Today I'm going to say what it means to pass all these laws in the field of education for us at KIM, because listening to yesterday and today, I didn't see any of these conceits who every day use KIM to collect cheap points, they didn't say a single word. The identified problems, in general, on education by the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development of the Republic of Serbia, are even more pronounced in the KIM area, so we have a special obligation to support the adoption of the Law on Dual Education. All the laws that have been passed and that need to be passed from the field of education, give education institutions in the KIM area the certainty that they will remain in the education system of the Republic of Serbia. Without the survival of educational institutions, as well as the adoption of all these laws, in the area of KIM, there is no survival of KIM within the education system of the Republic of Serbia. The young are a guarantee of our survival and the development of KIM and the preservation of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in these areas. Educational institutions in the KIM area have a special obligation to implement consistent new laws on education, because only by quality of work can we justify the efforts that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is making to our development and to improve the programme, the teaching staff of our educational institutions. The improvement of spatial capacity, the quality of equipment and the professional staff the Government of the Republic of Serbia is working on with a consistent application of new education laws will create conditions for our survival in the KIM space. President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic and SNS, the government and the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development of the Republic of Serbia, the KIM Office, supported the proposal for a new law on education. The Law on the Education System changes the system of work and learning. It is a revolutionary change that reform brings, according to Minister Sarcevic. By adopting all these education laws, the National Assembly will contribute to preserving the education of the Republic of Serbia in the KIM area. I would only use a few seconds to thank Minister Sarčević on behalf of all students and educators, and to convey to him the greetings and satisfaction of the educators, students and the people of KIM, because of your latest visit and decision to come, although these 10-15 days before that they returned from the crossing, you were resilient and you came, you gave us support and morale and the will to continue living, we fight and remain on our eternal hearths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23424	The word is made by the National MP Snježana Bogosavljevic Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23425	Dear Presidents, Mr. Ministers with Associates, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the topic of the parliamentary debate of this assembly session, is extremely important, because through the proposed laws in the focus of our discussions are young people and their education. Every serious and responsible society strives to provide better and better education for its young generations. The specific challenge of the education system is quality, efficient and functional secondary vocational education. The challenge is so much greater, because this education must be both dynamic and flexible. It must monitor scientific and technical achievements, but also modern economic flows, economies and the development of society in general. So today we expect educated technicians, craftsmen, masters of different profiles, who have adopted the necessary theoretical knowledge, but also mastered the necessary practice and skills to quickly and easily engage in the work in the profession. Employment in the profession is important for every individual who has earned a degree in secondary vocational education for his personal and professional career and prosperity, but it is also important for society in general, as it promotes reducing unemployment, strengthening the entrepreneurial spirit and economic progress of the community. I believe these were the most important motives of the government and the Ministry of Education, to propose a law on dual education that we are discussing today. This law legally regulates the issues of partnerships between secondary schools and businesses, i.e. schools and students on the one hand and companies on the other hand in the development of knowledge and practical skills, future technicians, craftsmen and masters of different profiles. This partnership is important, since behind our economy is a long-standing transition period followed by huge earthquakes and changes, changes, primarily in the form of property, so from social property for two decades not full, we got economy, mostly private property. Today, the willingness of economic operators to open their doors to the practical teaching of our high school students, I consider a positive gesture and progress both in the development and education and society in general. I also believe that a large number of students will find their full-time employment in these companies where they have acquired practical knowledge. In the context of the discussion on dual education and learning with work, I would like to point out that the practical teaching and training in our secondary vocational schools are deeply founded and have a long tradition. If our goal is knowledge, but also practical training and skills, no doubt, the best example is our agricultural schools. In these schools knowledge is also acquired by classrooms, and practice and skills in school economies. Valuable attention and praise have been given to these very schools, which, primarily for the sake of practical teaching and all professional subjects, have preserved and developed their school economies through decades of work knowledge and enthusiasm and educational workers and many generations of students. I therefore believe that our agricultural schools in Svilajnc, Požega, Kraljen, Leskovac, Šapac, Pogorevac, Sombor, Futoga and other places should continue, but should also help them continue to maintain and develop their school economies, because these economies are secure, a basis for the acquisition of practical knowledge and skills of technicians in the area of agriculture, veterinary and forestry. It is also worth the attention and mentioning of the Milky Way School in Pirot. The students of this school, in addition to learning, are also involved in the processing of milk and the production of milk products. More than 3,000 liters of milk are processed daily in the craft workshop of this school. Their products, helmets, white cheeses, yogurt, are in sale, are on tables throughout Serbia, and are gladly bought by foreigners. Benefits of this kind of learning are very high-quality, functional, expertise of students of this school, and benefiti schools are able to invest from selling cheese and other dairy products in the development of technologies in this area and thus improve the education of their students. I'm also saying this as a professor of the university who is currently working on the education of agronomic experts, but also as a former agriculture minister, when I visited a large number of our private schools. The work model of these schools, which includes compulsory practical training and training on my own economies, I consider one of the most organised in our country's secondary education system. Of course, in some other areas, in machine, metal, wood-processing, textile, etc., it is not possible in such a direct and transparent way to organise practical teaching and training, but therefore the largest number of these schools have their own workshops where students, along with teachers and teachers of practical teaching, also acquire important professional, practical skills. This is why it is important not to neglect and to degrade the importance of school workshops and the role of teachers of practical teaching. Moreover, I think it would be good in the context of higher education, such as higher vocational schools and their specialist studies, to introduce a programme of training of teachers of practical teaching. Sometimes, as you know, in Vranj, we had a high school for schooling teachers of practical teaching of machine and metal professions. In this way, education and economy would be given quality, because even in regular education and learning with work, more competent teachers and instructors would be involved. Starting with all this, I see the proposal for this law as a desire to improve our secondary vocational education, especially in those areas where, practically, teaching and training can be better and better organised in the real economy sector, i.e. in companies that have opportunities to do so and show their readiness for partnership with our secondary vocational schools. So clearly, the proposal for a law on dual education offers solutions to achieving our important goals, and only some of them will I mention – better quality, more efficient and more functional secondary vocational education, bringing this education closer to the needs of the economy, greater employment of educated staff, strengthening the entrepreneurial spirit of young people as a result of newly established craft workshops, small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why I am convinced that the projected outcome, the economic progress of the community, will certainly follow after these legal solutions have been applied. Due to all of this, the SPS parliamentary group will support the law on dual education, as well as other draft laws in this search, which will be discussed by my colleagues from the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23426	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23427	I thank you for opening a nice subject. I've been to a lot of agricultural schools and I think it's a great resource. There are mostly four-year professions and, besides everything you've listed, there are scientific centres there. So this really is where science went further, in Ruma we have opened up now, recently, both the pigyard and the genetic material that now serves the entire region of South Srema that they can encourage their individual agricultural producers to have better genetic material, so that a set of sciences and fully digitised models of children are learning IT in agriculture, and a link with the "Bioscience" Institute and high-tech sciences and agricultural schools, the landlordships are also something that has been done for the last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23428	Thank you, Minister. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23429	Meeting today's session, when we ask questions to the members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, or when they will probably be asked by representatives of the ruling majority's parliamentary groups, as was the case, I draw attention to Article 205(2). Rules of Procedure. The government was obliged to inform us in writing which of the ministers would not be able to attend today's session. Mr. Milicevic, the government was obliged to do so three days before this session, and we have been informed that there will be no Mrs. Nela Kuburovic, Dusan Vujovic, Aleksandar Vulin and Vladan Vukosavljevic received half an hour ago. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia continues to insult the dignity of the National Assembly, and this really cannot and must not be tolerated and you must draw attention to the government, you who have this kind of communication, you representatives of the ruling majority, to draw attention to the Government of the Republic of Serbia that, behold, they have shown good will and have an obligation to come today, that they also undertake to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, we will not even be able to talk today about the violations of the Rules of Procedure because we are working on a Rules of Procedure that absolutely deprives the Members of the People or is almost absolutely denying the Members of the People to do their job. I therefore used to speak, perhaps this is not literally, in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but a violation of and insult of the dignity of the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia did and should not have allowed them this. You had to warn them, or at least today, that the Prime Minister apologized for this national assembly and the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23430	I think that through the question you asked, which is about the violation of the Rules of Procedure you pointed to, you actually gave the answer that I actually wanted to give you. So it's not about this part of the session of the injury you pointed to. What is very important to us is that this part of the session, which will take place from 16 to 19 hours, will be clearly and precisely defined and arranged in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, members 204 to 209. That job certainly is on us, and it will be held accountable. On the other hand, we will convey your suggestion, but I think it is also far more important that the MPs will be able, because we have listened to the previous days by certain MPs of the opposition that the government must not appear before the MPs. Here, today from 4:00 p.m., last Thursday of the month, the government will be in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Marko Djurisic: After four months. You, too, Mr. Djurishic, will have the opportunity to ask a question. So, the government will be in the National Assembly. I don't think I've done any harm to the Rules of Procedure, but it's my duty to ask you if you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged injury? No, I don't. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23431	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 107 has been injured. - the dignity of the National Assembly. I don't think my esteemed colleague, who's usually a good lawyer, was very well read by the Rules of Procedure, because she said that they, i.e. The parliamentary group it belongs to will not have the opportunity to ask the government a question. That's just not true. The Rules of Procedure have been regulated to ask government questions by moving from the so-called independent MPs, then moving on to the parliamentary groups that have the least MPs, and only then comes to that parliamentary group that has the most MPs. And if someone is to be discriminated against, conditionally said today when the government comes, which we of the SNS voted for with all our hearts, it will rightly be, most likely, God forbid, the SNS MPs, and the SRS MPs will certainly have the right and the ability to ask questions to the Government, given the number of MPs they have. We from the SNS will most likely be denied, but we will patiently listen to all the questions that will be raised to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because for months the atmosphere has been created in the National Assembly that the Government of the Republic of Serbia must not come to the National Assembly because it is afraid of this terrible and, as you can see, quite a number of oppositions. We don't think so, the government will come today and all these great heroes, all these elites, all those who are too smart, who understand everything, will be able to ask the question of both the Prime Ministers and the Ministers in the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23432	My colleague Martinovic, I don't think I'm as specific as the chairman in violation of Article 107. (Alexander Martinovic: I do not ask to be voted. ) I think that I answered what you were actually talking about, which was the content of your presentation, which is that this part of the session from 16:00 to 19.00 hours will be very clear and precisely done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, in particular to the members of 204 to 209. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23433	Since I, as People's MP and Vice-President of the National Assembly, am unfortunately not in a position, not now, but otherwise, to chair the session, I must, in accordance with Rule 32, which is binding on me by the Rules of Procedure, to assist the Chairman or the President, the current chairman. My colleague was wrong earlier when he was talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure the way he spoke, because I wasn't in that previous report or wanted to cause replication. I simply want the citizens, otherwise we want the citizens of Serbia to know the absolute truth about the relationship of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly and everything that is of the interest to the citizens of Serbia. We Serbian radicals have prepared questions for representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as is known, we have them always, and we ask and ask serious questions of interest to all citizens and to the state of Serbia, whenever the Rules of Procedure allows us to do so. I didn't say that we wouldn't be able to ask the question, but I said that, unfortunately, only the representatives of the ruling majority will be able to ask the questions and, of course, because there are 14, 12, 15, I don't know exactly how many small parliamentary groups, they're all going to be worked out, to spend time. God forbid a colleague Martinovic is right and it would be interesting for Serbian citizens to be able to question the members of the government of the Republic of Serbia today. I sincerely hope that's what happens. If you hold the presidency, Mr. Milicevic, take care of how long he talks. Don't extend two seconds to that 10, to that 12, so that even the little time we have is spent unbusinessfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23434	Thank you. Here you are talking 11 seconds and more. It's possible they'll criticize me. Do you want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Miss Radeta: No.) I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23435	Thank you. Indeed, without the desire to point out the violation of Article 27 and, of course, I do not ask to be voted and I do not want to go further into this controversy, but simply because of the public, I would like to say that much more chance of asking the Government a question will be asked by the MPs of the SRS Group who have 22 MPs, but by the MP group of SNS who has 103 MPs. They're all ours, Mr. Mircic. The SNS parliamentary group has 103 MPs. I'm talking about the parliamentary group, not the election list. You should know that. Here, Mr. Mircic doesn't even know how many MPs we have.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23436	Don't give me a direct address. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23437	So 103 SNS MPs will have less opportunity to question the government of the Republic of Serbia than a parliamentary group that has 22 MPs. It's almost half past now. We're still a few hours away from that part of the session. You will see, there are much greater opportunities for ladies and gentlemen of the SRS to ask questions to the government than we do from the SNS, although there are 103 of us and 22 of us, and we also have questions for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, above all for the Prime Minister on issues that are important to the citizens of Serbia. But regardless, we will be at that part of the session and we are very interested in what questions will be asked to the government and how the Government will answer those questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23438	Thank you. Since you said at the beginning that you did not want the National Assembly to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure, we continue in the order of the elected MPs. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23439	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, of some seven common agenda points, five are talking about laws and two on agreements, and for a little time I have to take advantage of, I will only talk about what was the most common topic of discussion these days, about the law on dual education. If you've looked, but of course, you as a minister and there's no need to look at it, there's a list of speakers here, and on that list of speakers I'm... I'd like to pray that after a few seconds I've spent waiting for my colleagues to stop the discussion, I'll get back.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23440	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23441	So, on this list, I am the first who is undetermined and the entire Serbian Movement Group of Dveri is undetermined, not because we have written it like many others we know for sure that they will vote for the law to write that they are undetermined, but really because we have some doubts and dilemmas that I will try to talk to you in these few minutes to clarify, and that, as we would say illustrious, we would break it to one side or the other. As a person who I have long worked as a lecturer of professional subjects in education, I do have a personal interest in something besides what is the general interest of the Serbian Movement of the Dveri and I believe that this set of laws, which I would like to commend you and your Ministry on, because in a short period of time, you have thrown out quite a number of laws, which speaks of something, that you do, and I would commend you and because you are willing to enter into discussion, controversy, no matter how often you disagree. But, thank God, let's make some moves that can be of general benefit and profit. This reform has long been announced in terms of this dual education, and now we have been able to get the impression that this is something that will solve the problem of unemployment that arises in the Corps of young people of our country. We have an explanation that you wrote very correctly and in that explanation you didn't really want to hide anything, and that gave us the opportunity to interpret things one way or another, so let's talk about it. It is explained that 65% of young people with a high school are classified as a group of long-term unemployed, and then immediately after that, it is said that as many as 150,000 young people, from 15 to 24 years old, are unemployed, then somewhere on page 17. You mention that what we are doing now in dual education is in line with Serbia's Educational Development Strategy, where it was proposed to increase the practical teaching fund, etc., and then I personally entered... I'm really asking my colleagues to be a little quiet. I'm long enough to hear myself, but there's no need to get used to it. So you're saying that there's a strategy for developing education in Serbia by 2020, and that's where I first got into some dilemma. In fact, you yourself said that this strategy is a list of good wishes, that it has cost Serbia a lot, that nothing has done well, and now there are two questions - who is responsible for what it is? I don't think it's you, you're short on the head of that ministry. Who's responsible? Can we get out, God forbid, a bad conclusion that what we're talking about dual education is going to be some kind of a list of good wishes? What happened here? We came to that story to say that our students, who are going to finish high school education in this dual education system, have one of three opportunities -- to get hired in one of the companies they were in, conditionally to say, a practical part of their education, to start their own business or to continue their education at a higher education facility. I heard earlier that you mentioned an example of a school that would have the opportunity to go to higher education institutions in Russia, but if we, ministers, have reduced the number of theoretical classes to 20%, where we will go with it if they have 80% of the practical ones, will those 20% teaching allow them to continue higher education. I think in the general education section they'll be maimed. If they are not employed by a company on the other hand, it may lead us to conclude that they may not have satisfied the employer because they have not adequately mastered it. If that's so, hardly will, I'm an entrepreneur, I work privately, you can adequately perform that work. The biggest problem I've had in reading this is she's talking about instructors and those huge powers that have been given to the Chamber of Commerce, from licensing, from training. In other words, the Dvori parliamentary group received an opinion from the Anti-Corruption Agency this morning, where one 15, 16 members of the law, which you are proposing, are advised to correct them because there are possibilities for some mistakes in this regard. Just tell me one thing. She talks about funding, it's said that all will be financed by employers, so I ask, where is the employer's interest then? Those who need to pay minimum wage and a hot meal and a trip don't get anything from the state or get something from the state, you can't see it here in the law. As for what you said yesterday about certain countries, such as Germany, Switzerland, already making money donations, I didn't like the one thing when I saw that so-called. GIZ, not to read the keybinding he gave probably, six million, supports five interests – industrial mechanic, locksmith, welder, electrician, motor vehicle mechanic and fashion tailor. We'll agree that all these occupations are needed by Germany. They need her and Serbia, and now there's another fear. When they introduced dual education in the '60s, they did it for themselves. Are we working today because these are their needs? The mass of my acquaintances who are from these professions have just gone to Germany to do so. Unfortunately, because of the time I don't have, I can't talk any further, I've had a lot of questions. We tried to fix some things with amendments, discuss them through amendments, and we would like this to really be applicable and to live, because I think the state of Serbia needs it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23442	Thank you. Minister Mladen Sarcevic has the floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23443	Thank you. In the spirit of what you've said, goodwill, communication, I think 20% of the minimum in the subject's professional relationships alone, general education is preserved at full capacity. We always separate that in percentages. In the follow-up to education, one number will be defined either for professional or university. There's a huge need for that much to learn, to advocate, to be his goal, because he has to pass a professional prom. If three-year-olds are dual, since we keep saying they're three-year, four-year-olds, agriculture is all four-year-olds, medicine is all four-year-olds, part of the economy, trade, that I'm not counting any further, but it has to be understood that two years of work in a company on these jobs, that replacement for the fourth year is just in the narrow profile section. The candidate has to study general education courses to be competent, because he is a graduate, as well as the one who works in high school and is equating it with the rights in the course of education. The role of the chamber at this point is extremely necessary and necessary, because we do not have the capacity. We have teachers of a class of subjects who are in schools by some model, because they have followed technological developments, innovated where they are not. We mentioned earlier, so 80% of agricultural schools are innovative, a small number is not. If we don't talk further, which second level of education is better and stronger, it would take me a while. They give instructors, they're those people from the company, who'll learn the practical part of the work, but I'm giving my answer to colleagues who took care of teachers of practical teaching, that they'll lose their jobs. No, we took care of that. The same question was, when we were doing the law, yes, the unions were partners with us all along, and that was a sensitive question. In one drink, we solved more trouble. This training coordinator is the school teacher, who has pedagogical skills and we do not know because of the process of work, so the strong norms and sublegal acts will regulate certain things. You'll agree, if it's a complex machine, it can't be many students around it, we can't fix it with anything or give it to a rock. This has yet to be arranged, and is why it has been applied since 2019. So we're very aware that it's better to make the first entry law, protect everything that's important, because countries that haven't done it, and even from the group we mentioned, Slovakia hasn't worked, Romania, get into trouble. I think we're in good timing now to do it. When we talk about Strategy, I'll repeat the sentence that she's very good. I don't have time here to expose how much money anyone made on the same strategy, I have all that data. It's just that there's no story of it being done for the love of the state and the glory, etc. Action plans don't follow her. There's this universal relationship between theory and practice that needs to be excluded. It's good for people who are still today someone who protects the right strategy, because I don't completely reject it. I refuse only those parts that are planned and not feasible, because they never followed the economic flows of the state. I think it's mature to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23444	The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23445	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Around the chambers, it seems to me that the biggest source of corruption is possible, because they determine entrepreneurs, i.e. companies where practice will be carried out, they send instructors, they license and they have a lot of powers. Our proposal is for the Ministry to be more involved here. With regard to the agricultural school, Minister, we just mentioned the Royal Agricultural School, do you know that part of the country will be given to a foreign investor who has the parts used for practical work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23446	Thank you. The word has been made by a representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23447	He's just doing the full truth. The committee to be designated shall be joint. They're a junior partner of the Ministry of Education. We don't have any other resources for that. Otherwise, the co-operation has proved to be in preparation for everything, in the field tour, the companies, as very valuable. By the way, you've noticed that the educational inspection is in charge of all matters, so it's part of an education that is partly entrusted with our control.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23448	The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23449	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, respected colleagues, the Law on Dual Education is a very important law for our country, and it should enable Serbia's education system to be coordinated with the needs of the economy on the one hand, and on the other hand to address to some extent the problem of under-quality practical teaching in our secondary schools. It is clear that not all students can finish colleges and work in higher education positions. It is therefore very important that high school graduates bring as much quality practical knowledge as they can and can find a job. The criticisms we heard in the previous days by the opposition completely banish this debate and show a clear lack of understanding of the needs of the economy. How much incomprehension is the fact that the state of Serbia lost as many as 400,000 jobs in the economy between 2008 and 2012. I'll only comment on a few of the most frequently repeated criticisms. They say there are no guarantees that every student will get a job after school. I don't think there's an educational profile, whether it's high school, whether it's high education, which guarantees every single student that they're going to get a job, and that criticism is raising one logical question -- did the education system they created enable every citizen and every student to get a job after school? Well, of course not, the most citizens lost their jobs in the private sector during that period of the former government. The thesis that students will work on only one machine is completely banal, as Serbia's economy gives much broader opportunities to gain practical knowledge. At the end of the line education does not end with a finished school, it is lifelong, and a student who has learned to work on a kind of machine will learn to work on other similar machines, to professionally perfect and to build on the knowledge he has acquired in secondary education. The thesis on cheap labour and low wages, I don't think it should even be commented, because in their time they pay in the private sector almost there wasn't. What may be the most interesting criticism, is that this law will allow businessmen to quit their existing workers and then hire students. I think that one professional, efficient, productive worker is valuable to every businessman and the thesis that this businessman of this professional, efficient and productive worker is going to replace with a student who at that moment has not had enough experience and knowledge is completely banal and if our businessmen thought so, they would fail at the same speed that the yellow company collapsed after getting out of power. The town of Cačak has shown interest among the first cities in dual education and the economy of the town of Cačka, which consists of about 1,800 companies and about 4,300 entrepreneurial shops is productively oriented and has a need for production personnel. The town of Cačak has already taken certain steps when it comes to dual education, and this year there is an open department in the direction - a fashion tailor where 30 students have entered this direction and these students will practice in three chacan companies and also one educational profile in the direction - a trader, where students will practice in five chačav companies and two trade chains. Also, the Chamber of Commerce has done an analysis for the needs of the city's economy, and the need for a number of other educational profiles to be introduced in the coming period has been halted. So, the Serbian government and the president of the Republic of Serbia understand the needs of the economy perfectly, and this law is one step towards further reducing unemployment, towards hiring new people, so that students after high school will bring much more quality knowledge that they will be able to apply in practice and thus the SNS in the voting day will unequivocally support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23450	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23451	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Minister, it was just said that you and this government have no vision or anything about education. I'm telling you that unlike those of the DS, who told you that, you have a vision, you have a mission. And all these four laws and three agreements are exactly what they say. We've talked a lot these days about dual education. That's why I'm sorry we haven't spent much more time on other laws that are basically harmonizing with the roof law, but they have a lot of new and important things. It's hard for me not to comment on someone talking and constantly potentiating the story of the rich and the poor. Is it possible that we are talking about the rich and the poor now and that only the rich have the right to professional training, to higher education? Who knew? I know a lot of people who were once poor, who were apprentices on April 6, 1941, and today they're multimillionaires, people who have millions and millions of dollars in property, and they always remember what they were, where they came from, that they're part of this people. They remember that April 6th and remember a city called the Kings. When asked Mr. Milomir Glavcic why he invests so many millions in the Kingdom, he says on April 6th when I went to my Kopalnik as an apprentice from bombed Belgrade, to my village of Kovaci. In the city of the king, a man stopped me, a railroadman, and asked me, "Son, do you have anything to eat?" Of course I didn't have anything to eat. He gave me a piece of bread. That piece of bread has brought the city to the city of Kralje five, six million euros. Right now, and Mr. Milomir Glavcic, who is 95 years old, is following these efforts to provide a lot of new kindergartens through a 47 million loan. He donated 200,000 euros to the city of Kralje. He made another kindergarten. So I think you have a vision. You have a mission. In 1941, this man had a vision and achieved what you predicted and planned for these laws. Unfortunately, these DSs will never figure it out. For the sake of time and for the sake of my colleagues, I will end up here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23452	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Zoran Radojcic. He's not there. The word has a People's MP, Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23453	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and fellow Members of Parliament, before I speak more about the Law on Dual Education, first of all, to express satisfaction because this law, that is, this bill, is in line with the trade unions. And something that is very important is, and the more I express my satisfaction, and the fact that a significant and comprehensive public debate has been carried out because it is essentially a guarantee of quality legal solutions. The very fact that certain employers in our business system cannot employ people from the bureau because of certain incompetence or lack of skills, says in support of the fact that this law should have been passed in the past. What is a fact and what I can say is that the practice so far that this practical teaching is done in school workshops that are generally not only outdated, but simply belong to some of our common past, says that practice is necessary primarily in technologically developed factories, not in school workshops where children simply will not learn what they need for future work. In parallel with this, not only school workshops but also teachers who conduct practice were unable to monitor our country's technological progress and at all civilizations, and those teachers had also remained in the past. With these suggestions, I think he's getting rid of that problem. What we could hear as the main remark of the opposition is cheap labour, even heard, for me, some absurd terms such as abuse, slaver society, etc., which is absolutely nonsensical. Why do I say that? Because that's what people who actively participated in the robbery privatisation are talking about, who actively conducted the robbery privatisation. I'll also talk about the town I come from, about Probation. In Prokuplje, no factory that was, I'm talking about state factories that worked during the SFRY and the 1990s don't work today. In the places where they were today, the ruins, the buildings, the misery and whatnot. Can those people who took part in this talk about dual education, about how our children have to be prepared for the competition, the labour market because it's the essential thing. Is anyone normal supposed to think that a kid who gets out of school should be incompetent for a job? This child has to be prepared for his own work when leaving a professional school, either in his own direction or in the employer’s office. It's a fundamental thing, it's a state interest. The story of some material student security I think is completely surrounded, because in the period when knowledge, competence and skills are acquired, compensation greater than 70% of the minimum labour price is a big deal. I was on my own as a doctor, and during my specialization, I received compensation as a general medical doctor until I learned the trade and passed a specialist exam. It's natural that during the adoption of knowledge you have a fee that's not 100%, but it's a fee. So far, professional practice in various school workshops, for working in school workshops, was no fee, so there was no rebellion. I just don't understand that kind of thing, except I understand that it's about politics and abuse of really noble things. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23454	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miladin Shevarlic has the word. He's not there. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23455	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, the co-workers of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this set of laws that we are considering today are practically what comes from what we adopted about a month ago, the Law on the founding of a system of education and education. So, this important job that we did a month ago was set up as a basis, and we got one basic, or as it says in legal practice roof law that covers these areas that we're working on today, and we analyze through the adoption of these laws that have the character of special laws. The word is, therefore, that we actually comply with these laws and these areas with what is the Law on the founding of education and education systems. So, these new laws, we practically have one projection of everything that is a systemic solution to the basics of education and education systems, so in the Law on Fundamental Education, in the Law on High School, in the Law on Preschool Education, and of course we're passing a new law on dual education. Looking at all the elements and aspects that are an integral part of the educational-experienced process in pre-school, primary school and secondary school, the remarkable complexity of the educational-experienced work process is seen, and therefore this complexity points to the seriousness of such a large and significant work. I only mention some areas that appear in these laws that are regulated by legal solutions. For example, the issue of regular teaching, additional classes, extra classes, classes, classes, classes, classes, and then support for children and students from sensitive social groups, classes for students on home and hospital treatment, remote classes, cultural activities of school, school sports programme and recreational programme, protection against violence, abuse, neglect, protection against discrimination, environmental protection, co-operation with the school's family, health care at school, then special pedagogical orientation programs, which is very interesting and important to mention. Finally, we mean general and specific principles and objectives of education and education, and then general and cross-cutting competences at the end of primary education, as well as cross-cutting competences for the end of secondary education. So it's really about one important and complex, responsible and difficult job in this area, which you, Mr. Minister, are running. Figuratively speaking, this area can be said to build from the child of a man educated, educated, cultural, of course it is not only the role of educational and educational institutions and it is not just a matter of this resistor, of course, that there is more or less part of it in the family, but also other segments of society. He said something else that is very important at the moment, and this question is particularly relevant through the principle of rationalization of the educational process, i.e. education. So, on behalf of savings and rationalization, you should make sure that there is no ease in shutting down, or closing down individual schools where we have fewer students. Serbia is faced, in a vast space and in its large part of the space by the depopulation process, especially in southern Serbia and eastern Serbia, and once the school is shut down, it is the last bumper to be, which still retains people in the area. Furthermore, it is important to say, it is certainly commendable, that the current government and your ministry continue to work on renovation and reconstruction of schools, as well as building new school and other facilities, with a high degree of energy efficiency, this is very important. Also, it's important to make it even more involved in preschool children. The coverage of preschool children in EU countries is greater than ours. The overall percentage of preschool children in Serbia, however, is on the rise. It was 32% in 2002, and in 2016 and 2017 over 50%, but in this direction we should certainly continue. However, we should be aware of the fact that the coverage of children from families of lower socio-economic status is lower, as well as the number of children from rural areas, and we must change this. When it comes to dual education, but before that let me say what I should have said at first. I would like to commend this work in the area of this portfolio on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, and I believe that the policy of the ministry and this government is going, as far as education and education are concerned, in a good direction. So, by coming to the head of the ministry, you have continued a good tradition of some ministers from earlier periods, and I have no doubt that the large results will follow with you at the head of the ministry in this area. As far as dual education is concerned, we've had this before in terms of school students in the economy. Of course, it is not the same, but it certainly needs to continue in this direction, because it involves the interest of businesses, at least those who need certain profiles, or occupations that those in the current education system can hardly come to. So they become an important partner, and in the process itself is an interesting phenomenon of instructors and coordinators, and it is actually one tandem, which consists of representatives of the school and of representatives of the economic operator and those in that tandem are actually making up a single set, a system in which both what is practical work and what is the essence of that interest by experts from a business operator will be provided. On the other hand, what is the pedagogical side, etc., it is satisfied with the presence of coordinators. Of course I'd like to join the praises of our schools, the middle-aged schools that we've been talking about here. I often visit, for example, the Agricultural School in Pozarevec, but there are great other schools, not to mention, my colleague Boskovic mentioned it. I would suggest, Mr. Minister, if that is possible, that when we adopt the budget, when we discuss the budget system, that we make sure that it is possible to return the school's own income to which it has been seized under that law? At a given time, the school cannot react in a timely manner, and the sowing goes, plant protection goes, machinery malfunctions go, etc. In the budgetary system in some other areas, such as science, culture, etc., these funds have been left behind. We think it's in the interest of education and these schools, which we can really raise ourselves with, to get it back and I'm asking you to talk about it and stand up together. Finally, I would say once again that the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group welcomes your efforts, which is going in a good direction, without politics, going professionally and I hope that we will have good results. Of course, we will uphold these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23456	Thank you. The word has a representative of the promoter, Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23457	I think maybe it's a good time to just tell you about this last thing you said. We know about this problem and schools have a real problem with how to sow, how to buy food for animals, and everything else that they grow there, and what they do, but we put the solution in these last two laws, about elementary and high school, which we don't talk about at all. The solution of a student cooperative, in new properties, a new capacity, is a completely good solution that will allow each school to make these own incomes, and even something that is productive or something that is useful or anything, in some way earns itself and to remain its own, under conditions, of course, to take care of each dinar correctly, to put what are priorities and to be cooperatives, is said by some MPs yesterday, both teachers and students. They can be parents and all well-intentioned people. So it's very important that we help them with that. These days, we have one working team that is working intensively, edits the legal and financial framework of the story, and we will suggest to all institutions in Serbia, through that form of autonomy. Cooperatives are not only useful because of that, of course, it's some visible benefit, it's just a benefit, but if we're talking about the aspect of the educational function of every institution, the benefit of the educational, when we're talking about learning for work, something that a young man has to learn from small, in the house, which is to know that he throws garbage, that he knows that he goes to the store, that he knows that he can make his bed, and from other things, and he won't be used, surely, by his parents, or by anyone at school or with the will of this thing. We signed a contract the other day with the "Serbian State", a public company, which will be our partners, such as the Chamber of These Things, as we have partners in the economy for almost all the goals that we have pointed out, and that really holds us high, even where we didn't have budget funds, just like, where a kind of planting or growing up is going to be possible in all rural schools as a work of cooperative. So we have cooperatives that do software, high school, we have a lot of good stories and good examples of practice. It's left to offer it to every school as a finished, good model. And here's a solution to that story.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23458	Thank you, Minister. The word is made by the People's Messenger Ivan Kostic. He's not here. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23459	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, respected ministers with associates, it is impossible not to notice that you are here in this respected home, but is being measured for weeks. This really speaks of the seriousness with which you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have approached to solve this problem, with the seriousness you approach when it comes to revitalising the Serbian education system. I must say, Your Honor, it won't be a simple task. It is not easy to establish a system that has been destroyed to the ground for the past 12 years, during the Democratic Party's reign, and a monster called the Democratic Party. But it was actually only one part of a broader plan to destroy Serbia and its youth overall. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23460	Go back to the subject, colleague Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23461	It is impossible today, ministers, to talk about education and not to remember the great Holy Sava and, after all, Vuk Karadzic and those quotes that he recorded and recorded for his life. Here, I'll only quote you one. The great Wolf, whom I see, is ashamed of the opposition: “Do not you, my brother, worry, whether the people are going to perish or not, but do what you are able to do, and if everyone does what is right, the people will never perish. ” You're showing, Your Honor, that you're frames, you're showing that you've taken this assignment seriously. I have to say, first of all, because of Serbia, all the time, these days and these weeks you have a large number of associates present with you, now it's being measured for dozens, and it's also talking about the seriousness with which you approach this problem. Of course, by this law you are now approaching the real sector and the economy of the education system and thinks it is unequivocal and how useful. I have experience, I come from Subotica, where we already have four departments that have come out, who are graduates, they were all engaged, both in foreign and domestic companies. It's not easy to put these companies back on their feet. In fact, for 12 years, the monster of the Democratic Party in Subotica has led us to lose our jobs. Here, fortunately, with the Mayor of Subotica and with the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of Serbia, we have reached 6,000 jobs in the free zone. But these four departments, I must tell you, are all others to work in these companies – Bajmok furniture industry, the furniture industry "Future", the furniture factory "Bačka Topola", all others stayed to work. There are more than a hundred young people left to live in Serbia. It is a great benefit to our community, and finally, and I end up, I think that a lot is today and said, I wanted to make these arguments for the public of Serbia. I know these arguments won't convince the opposition to vote for this bill. I will end up with the great Vuk Karadzic, who many are ashamed of again, in another quote, Vuk Karadzic says -- pearls are not thrown in front of pigs. So much, Mr. Minister. Thank you for trying for this Serbia, and I will certainly support this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23462	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23463	Mr. Milicevic, I am advertising the first article in 106 that the speaker can only talk about the topic of the agenda on which the search is being carried out. I think we've heard about everything, just not about the subject of the agenda. I'm also advocating Article 108, to be in line at the session of an old chairor or his deputy. In this situation, you. I think we could have heard all kinds of lies from the previous speaker. I really didn't expect him to understand how bad this law is for the citizens of Serbia, and I would really like to know how he explains to young children at school that his mayor is Subotica... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23464	Comrade Milojičić, you have the opportunity to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. (Radoslav Milojic: I command. But through the breach of the Rules of Procedure. When you answer and point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you cannot abuse the Rules of Procedure... (Radoslav Milojic: I command. Please give me back my time. Just a minute. You can't abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure to replicate with a people's MP who spoke to me for a moment, and you're talking to me and you're pointing to a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'll explain to you whether I think I did or didn't do any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23465	Mr. Milicevic, I know very well what is in this Rules of Procedure, but obviously you do not know as the chairman, when you allowed the previous speaker to speak about the rule of the DS, how in 12 years the government of the Ministry of Education ruined the education system, that is exactly what the previous speaker was saying, and DS was only a year and a half of the Minister of Education, Mr. Gaš Knezevic, whom we are proud of. The minister was just your party mate, Mr. Zarko Obradovic... .
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23466	You still want to replicate. Before I give you an explanation... (Radoslav Milojic: No, I'm talking because you're wrong.) I've figured out what you're pointing at. Do you want the National Assembly to declare in the voting day? (Yes) I thank my colleague Milojičić. You've referred to article 103 and 106. (Radoslav Milojic: Error, you must listen, 106 and 108.) You're right, in 106 and 108, so the speaker is talking about the agenda point. A colleague, Vujadinovic, spoke in his own way about what today is a part of the agenda. The moment I, as chairman, felt that for a moment he had strayed from what was topic, I suggested and warned him and asked him to return to what is the topic of today's session. I don't think I have done any harm to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23467	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Milicevic has been injured by article 27. Mr. Milojic did not seem to understand best and did not listen to Mr. Milimir Vujadinovic, he said the Democratic Party has devastated the state of Serbia. So, not only the education system, but the entire state, and above all the economy of the Republic of Serbia. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure? ) So in 12 years, their government has completely ruined Serbia's economic life. (Radoslav Milojic: Is this the violation of the Rules of Procedure now? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23468	Comrade Martinovic, please speak to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23469	Thousands of factories in robbery privatisations have been closed and more than 400,000 people have lost their jobs in the period from 2008 to 2012, and SNS shows otherwise. So we promote such a policy, that the economy... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23470	My colleague Martinovic, I will have to interrupt you, as well as my colleague Milojičić. There is no reason for our fellow Martinovic to replicate through the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please address me, I understand what you want to point out, that the misread colleague Vujadinović is. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23471	Mr. Milicevic, I'm advertising Article 107. I know that you are trying to make every SNS speaker, regardless of what topic of the agenda has appeared, regardless of whether it is the Rules of Procedure, let them give the worst lies and accusations to DS or one of the DS MPs and then tell them with one smile – please, I will have to interrupt you. So I'm asking you to have the same arches and let me say that the SNS destroyed Serbia's country, reduced wages, reduced pensions, and then interrupted me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23472	Here, I didn't let you do it either. I will not allow you to abuse the Rules of Procedure and to replicate through the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. (Radoslav Milojičić: Just the same arches we're looking for, nothing else. ) The Arches are exactly the same. You misread the presentation of colleagues from Vujadinović, and I repeat, the moment I personally felt he had strayed from the topic, I suggested and asked him to return to the agenda point, which he did. I thank you, colleague Vujadinović. We move on, the word has a People's MP, Ljubinko Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23473	Dear Chairman, Mr. Milicevic, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I had no intention of talking about the law on dual education. But indeed after yesterday's unfounded, often criticism and insults, I must also say congratulations to Mr. Sarcevic's working team and especially to his assistant minister, Professor Gabriela Grujic Garic, who certainly made great efforts to make this law well and to keep it on the agenda today. Why do I trust this law? All criticisms that are often unfounded are not based on some research results, on some studies, on some scientific experiments, and Mrs. Gabriela Grujic is engaged in scientific and research work in this area. I'm not going deep into this law, they're just saying their impressions. I must say that these criticisms were truly unfounded and that probably from the people most critical of this law, tomorrow they will take credit for the application of this law. Be ready for that. Therefore, do not come out of this congregation disappointed, from this home, as if it were a failed job, but be proud of what you have done in the past year. You did not sit with your hands cut, but you gave a five-step result for the country's education. So much to say about this, I'm sorry, and I'm going to talk about the Law on Confirming the Joint Convention on the Security of Fuel Management and the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management. This is an area of environmental protection, and I'm sorry it really was a little talk about this law. Perhaps there should be a minister of environmental protection at this session, so the debate would also be discussed in this direction, because this area is divided into several ministries in the Republic of Serbia. It is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, then in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Mining and Energy, then in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. Which are the reasons for confirming this international contract. The Joint Convention on the Safety of Fuel Management and Safety of Radioactive Waste Management deals with a wide range of issues related to the management of spent nuclear fuel and the management of radioactive waste of civil character. The issues in its work are not only about countries with nuclear energy programmes, but also those with only sources of radiation in medicine and industry in their application. The space indivisibility factor in case of possible emergency situations or cross-border transport and other relevant cross-border movements also stresses the international character of the Convention and its subject-matter and seems significant to all countries. The aim of the adoption of this law is to introduce higher standards in implementing nuclear safety measures, more effective law enforcement, more comprehensive and modern regulation and control of sources of ionic radiation, nuclear facilities, radiation and nuclear activities, and above all, of the management of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. The implementation of the provisions of the Convention shall meet the fulfilment of international requirements and ensure consistency in the international plan, thus enabling easier and more adequate communication and coordination with other countries and international organisations in this area. The Convention is the first binding international legal instrument that reflects the intention and commitment of the States that are in its Contracting Parties, to achieve and maintain a high level of security in the areas covered by the Convention, in accordance with the global regime, which provides for the protection of people and the environment. I must say that the Convention was adopted in Vienna on 5 September 1997, and the Convention is open for accession to all countries, including the Republic of Serbia, which has not taken part in any of these phases so far. According to the 2013 data, 69 countries are contracting parties and 42 signatories of the Convention, so are the contracting parties and all former countries of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, then Albania, Romania, Bulgaria and Hungary. The government and the Republika Srpska Assembly recognised the need for safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste as a matter of particular importance that needs to be addressed in an adequate manner and as part of other issues related to radiation and nuclear safety and security. This is being witnessed by progress in the innovation of the legal regulatory frameworks.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23474	Thank you, co-worker. The word has a folk MP, Stanja Komirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23475	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers with his associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, since we are talking about very important laws, education laws, I will point out that education reform is very important because it is human capital for the future and we must learn and strive to adopt new knowledge. It's the only way to the new force this country needs. Knowledge should guide this country and its knowledge should shape it and set goals for it. Yes, that's what our President Aleksandar Vukic talked about in this house ahead of us, presenting the government programme in August 2016, that it is the most important task of Serbia to learn to learn, specialize and discover new fields of knowledge and become frames to solve them. That's what education reforms are for, to get a more capable generation, more willing to respond to every task, to develop and preserve our country. This will also eliminate all the harmful consequences created by the DS in this system and system before us. The basic ideas of dual education are governed by the Dual Education Act, which aims to regulate learning through work for secondary and professional school students, improve education that will be tailored to the needs of the economy, increase the scope and quality of practical teaching, build an entrepreneurial spirit in young people, encourage the movement of their own business and continue their education in vocational studies and universities. The reform of the education system is very important and contributes to our society, including our education, as well as to our institutions in the areas of Kosovo and Metohija, as this proves the arrival of Mr. Minister Sarcevic himself these days in Kosovo Mitrovica, who visited our schools, our pre-school institutions, our education systems, as well as opened a scientific system for young people. Because only by gaining knowledge are we trying to defend ourselves, by gaining knowledge we are trying to unite and to show that only united we can go on. Thus, "Serbia" has also shown its victory in all Serbian municipalities, and that is the power and knowledge of our people and our president, which proves to us also our security that he is there and that he cares for us. Only in such a united way will we be able to overcome and overcome many of the problems that have been caused to us in earlier lies of the Democratic Party, which did not care at all about the basic systems of our society and society in Kosovo and Metohija in education and education. In voting day, I will support these laws completely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23476	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23477	Dear Mr. Minister with Associates, I have little time left to read to you the conclusion of the Anti-Corruption Agency regarding the proposal for a law on dual education. "The bill, without sufficiently narrowing down discretionary powers, leaves a very important role in the field of dual education to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which is an interesting and business professional organisation of economic operators. A particular problem is that the bill contains several unarranged and inaccurate solutions that leave room for different interpretations and which can favour particular interests that are contrary to public interest. Finally, the bill also contains other shortcomings which, among other things, concern the absence of conditions and criteria or elements of the criteria for the appointment of committee members, the granting of broad discretionary powers and the transfer of the Minister and the Chamber of Commerce to regulate significant issues by means of its act, although it is necessary for these issues to be regulated by the legal provisions. “
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23478	Thank you, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23479	One more sentence, Mr. Chairman. "The Anti-Corruption Agency believes it is necessary to remove identified shortcomings in order to create an adequate legal framework in the field of dual education. “ Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23480	Thank you, colleague Obradovic. The word has a folk MP, Djordje Kosanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23481	Dear Ministers with Associates, Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, it may be good to remind ourselves once again that these two days before us we had four laws in the field of education and education, in addition to confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and two conventions on nuclear safety and security management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. The JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the bills mentioned, and my colleague Vojislav Vujic spoke as authorized in front of the JS parliamentary group about all these laws from a united debate. My presentation will be focused on the draft law on dual education. Minister, at the very beginning, I must say that you have discussed here on several occasions with JS President Dragan Markovic the need to introduce dual education into Serbia's education system. Also, on the other hand, I really have to say that there was a need for the economy for adequate personnel. Also, even though we have a large number of unemployed, we have one, on the other hand, illogicality. We have certain interests in need and open competitions to fill those occupations. On the other hand, when it comes to dual education, Minister, the good thing is that you've already got about 2,000 companies interested in entering the dual education system. If we take all of this into account, I think that this law, which you and your associates wrote, is one big step forward, with the aim of adapting secondary vocational education in the first place with the economy, with the needs of the economy, and on the other hand by reducing the number of unemployed young people to 25 years of age, and that important thing, that our economy becomes competitive, not only at regional level, but also at global level. Minister, what seems to me, today and yesterday, we haven't heard the most important thing that you and all your associates, the whole government, and I think all of us MPs here, are to hire young people, and on the other hand to prevent young people from going abroad. That's what I think is the crucial thing that we stand for. It should also be fully open and said that in 2013, the ministry, headed by Zarko Obradovic, recognised the importance of dual education. We had a couple of pilot projects back then that gave great results. I think all those students who ended up getting a job. I'm saying, we have high unemployment, although from year to year, good work reduces that unemployment, but we still have about 450,000 unemployed people somewhere. We have a high unemployment rate of young people, it's moving somewhere around 150,000 young people, aged 15 to 24, or it doesn't have a job on one side, or it doesn't go to school. So by this system, we already have a large number of schools that work in dual education. They are working on different educational profiles that schools have already had, but the important thing, ministers, is that new educational profiles will be opened in the wake of economic operators in many cities. You signed the contract the other day, I think, with the minister of the military, where you opened up some additional occupations in the area. But I have to tell you, we also have to listen to the voice of young people. I think we need a variety of ways to bring certain interests closer to young people. Minister, we in Serbia today have, say, certain occupations like welders, where the initial salary is over 50,000 dinars and we still don't have enough people, they're constantly open about the competition to make these people work. Also, the very important thing that I have to say today is that by finishing this professional training, young people don't have to stop schooling, they can go to school without a problem and finish colleges, even master's and PhDs. But, Minister, something I should really point out, and I think it's already been heard in parliament, and I think you and your associates are thinking about, too, thinking in the next period, about introducing dual education to colleges. I'm not going to spread it anymore, but I'm saying it's an extremely important thing that should come in some future time. I'd like to say something about how things are at school. This year we had a little under 70,000 perfect founders, we had plenty of room for all the students, but I want to tell you one important thing. Not all schools will work on the principle of dual education. I think somewhere around 180,000 students are already working on the principle of high school and the important thing is that at this point we have some increase in high school that you've increased a small number here this year, but it's going to go to that 40% magic figure to get along with the national education strategy, which predicts, say, 40%, and we have 23% right now, if I'm not wrong, right? This year we had the biggest rush of economic and medical schools. The good thing I want to point out is that we are on the right track, when it comes to dual education, indicators of the “Ghost of Youth”, which has visited even 33 places, I think you have come across really good impressions and schools and businesses and students. It is one really good thing and it shows that this is dual education on the right track and that it is a good thing for Serbia. One thing very important, someone will say that we should look up to someone, someone not, but I'm sure it's a good example of how dual education is organized, it's an example of Switzerland, Austria, Denmark and other countries. Of course, this dual education differs from country to country. It has its advantages and faults, but what I mean is, every country has its own specificities, and so does our dual education that we do has its own specificity. It's certainly not the same with any education. Also, here in Parliament we heard today that various schools, to say, have been working on this model for a long time, but Minister, I have to tell you, you are well aware, I come from Kragujevac, we have a political school there. I have to tell you that since 1854, when she was founded, at Topolivnica, when she had 12 students, so to this day, I think she's been working on that dual education. We have excellent cooperation with economic operators from that city.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23482	Comrade Kosanic, please bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23483	Thank you. At the very end, since I have no more time, dual education in one way leaves not only the perspective of young people to work after completed education, but also business entities that have safe staff to be in a working relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23484	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23485	If you'll excuse me, I just want to support this attitude of yours and we're working on it. He started a student practice program, and that's the introduction to dual high. So earlier attempts have been real since 2010 so-called BG practice, but it's kind of moving faster than it started. I think that we have now seriously stepped up and strengthened our teams with these parts, the interest of various higher education institutions and businesses is also very large on the issue. When you talk about Kragujevac, I went to this technical center and in the spirit of what we were talking about at the Valjev Centre of Excellence, we think it's one of the potentially best points that this is about that part of the Forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23486	Thank you, Minister. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23487	I do not know if I will dare speak of minority education, because I simply see the mood of national minorities and let alone education and expression in my own language. I was disappointed in the thinking of some MPs who were still my colleagues, and I don't think there was room for such conversations here. I will only make remarks in some members, because I thought this law on primary, secondary or preschool education would correct some of the injustices that national minorities have been facing for years, they have a problem with their education. The basics of the education and education system simply did not touch these problems, so I really thought that the primary law on basic education would correct some of the illogicalities that really education faces and has problems. It primarily refers to an electoral object now called election classes, but rather an electoral programme, where religious and civic education is assessed in a descriptive manner. It's been so far, and I think it's okay, because we're just not all the same confiscations and we're not all in the mood to learn civicly in some way, and we don't think it should have belonged to schools in some way, in my opinion. We all went to religious school, but we went to churches, and I think it still belongs to churches, and it's civil to belong to one of its own home educations. That's my personal opinion. As for teaching in the languages of national minorities, I especially mean in Vojvodina, where education has its continuity, I, for example, I belong to the Russian national community where we celebrated 260 years of education in Russian, we have a whole vertical education in that language, I even studied in Russian in the Russian language department in Novi Sad, and I don't think anyone has a problem with having a mother tongue education, or at work, or in any professional or other advancement. That's why I thought that learning the native language as a university course would simply get some other treatment, and the treatment remained the same. So, even in some way, I'm going to use this term, humiliated because teaching in the language of a national minority, or university language, is now not going to be graded, but will be assessed in descriptive terms, so it will have the same treatment as civil education and religiousism. It hasn't been good so far, because the case was graded, but the score didn't go on average. I'm not saying that now it gives some motive for both parents and children to go to mother tongue learning if it's going to be rated numerically and if the rating is going to be on average, but we do know that it's multicultural, that it's tolerance, we saw it in the Assembly, really on some test, and I'm just interested in why it's not rated numerically. On the Education Committee, you told me, Minister, it's because of that fund of lessons. But we have long proposed, since this is really applicable in Vojvodina, and it is also applicable throughout Serbia, why not introduce the language of the social environment, it is a neighbouring language? That tolerance we really see is now at some very low level. These would be neighbouring languages, such as languages belonging to the European Union, Hungarian, Slovak, Russian, Croatian, Bulgarian, Macedonian, these are the languages we need to learn not because we have a life with those neighbours, but simply why not learn that language? If you think that members of national minorities would be in some way damaged by having one more object, I don't think that's right. Secondly, I would like to commend that, in high school, learning the native language, academic language learning, evaluates and counts, rather than described as in high school, in my opinion, it's good, but still, that grade does not go on average. We're talking again about why that grade doesn't go on average. It's simply another problem again, if children don't learn the native language, and I'm not saying that the school is the one that teaches the native language, parents are primarily the ones who teach the children the native language, if they don't affirm the learning of the mother tongue in primary school, why are they affirming in high school? I mean, if he doesn't learn his native language in elementary school, he's certainly not going to be taught in high school, nor does he care about having a good grade in that class. Those are some of my grudges. Another one of my objections, in bilingual teaching, why is there no agreement of the National Council in introducing a bilingual teaching? Simply, in line with the local self-government, which is also the founder of primary schools, but for example in mixed environments or in the environments where the Serbian department is being introduced, I think that is what it is, that either introduces the Serb department or introduces a department in the language of the national minority. That's why I think the national council here should give consent in either case. I don't mean either language right now. I think the National Council really needs to have, not opinion, but consent, because I say either the Serbian department is being introduced, or a section in the language of the national minority is being introduced. Still around preschool education and education, if I think it also cares about local self-government, simply in the area where local self-government is said to in some way to finance some extra activities for children in preschool departments. For example, I don't know English or some I don't know sections. So learning, the university learning of mother tongues in environments where there's no regular preschool classes in that language, it just hangs out and nobody finances it. For example, an educator or teacher, a teacher who will come once or twice a week to teach children the native language. So here I was, thinking that local self - administrations should still make up for that tutor who would come and nurse that native language. Thank you, and I think that's mostly LSD Vojvodina's amendments, so I'm asking you to reconsider that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23488	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23489	Dear Olena, I am also on the Education Committee as I was then trying to give a reasonable explanation. For years and decades, something has been added to basic education, and because of the age of children, it has already been exaggerated. High school kids are older and their weekly fund allows them to go into different forms. For the first time, we covered this story to make it appear and informative and everything that matters, and we also called it objects that are mandatory and go on average, and this burden of students is invisible. All other forms of work are also very important, they are also recognized and they really have a function. Whether something is rated numerically or descriptive, so the whole first grade of elementary school is described. Many countries in the world have a percentage rating, believe that it may even be the smartest. So there is nothing at stake in the right of a national minority, and you know well that the National Council and the National Minorities can't set up institutions, we talked about it when it was the system law of local self-government, and a colleague of LJIlja Marolt who normally cooperates with you on matters and pre-school institutions, so we want to solve the specific rules for the role of local self-government in the work of each pre-school institution by estimating the specificities that you're talking about. So I think it's all somehow just a little bit in other packages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23490	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word has a National MP, Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23491	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, since we are ending this principle debate, let me also do a synthesis of what Parliament's Davery Group has been talking about in these days. First of all, what we think is absolutely unsolved, although you have passed an entire set of educational laws, is to increase your salaries to educational workers whose salaries in Serbia are below average wages and this is indeed the biggest one, of the biggest problems that Serbian education faces. The second problem, of course, you failed to solve because I think you didn't have the strength to oppose one of the major corruption at the top of the government, which is to get rid of purchased diplomas and doctoral works that are plagiarized by the police minister, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Belgrade Mayor Sinish Mali and all those who are first on the list.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23492	Let's get back to the agenda, please. Well, can we talk about the agenda in these two minutes and 46 seconds? Here you go. (Alexander Martinovic: Mention and listening center, please. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23493	A colleague, Martinovic, asked me to tell him where Nenada Kovaca and Nikola Petrovic, the godmother of Aleksandr Vukic, are located, but I will not now, because it is not on the agenda, the government will come and we will also ask about listening centres that hold Vucic's godmothers in Serbia. So, what the subject is is exactly the state of Serbian education and the status of educational workers, and don't let Mr. Chairman talk about it in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, as far as this law is concerned, first of all, I'm thinking of the Law on Dual Education, Mr. Minister, I think that first of all, we should have solved some other things that are a prerequisite for the success of one of these laws, from the problem of white plague, to the problem of a domestic economy that practically does not exist and the most important problem that is directly related to this law, which is that we don't have a law on craftsmanship and that the Chamber of Commerce should be a real partner in dual education and not a Chamber of Commerce. You know it well, but you can't have a craft chamber as a partner because it doesn't exist, because there's no law on trade. Since 2007, there has been an initiative by entrepreneurs in Serbia, since 2010, there has been a bill. So, please take responsibility together for the former DS and SPS regime and the current SPS and SNS regime why we don't have law on trade. I also received a letter from the craftsman’s woodwork association that draws attention to this problem and people correctly conclude that the craft chamber would actually be a real partner to your ministry for this law on dual education. What are all the problems of the law? Number one, lowering the general level of education. Under the number two potential corruption through the PKK, which is a highly suspicious organization with which the businesses in Serbia...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23494	Thank you, Mr. Obradich. The word is made by Minister Mladen Sarcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23495	A little while ago, we said that the level of general education and general objects is not reduced. That's what the fact is. The percentage ratio of the first year is changed, so towards the final years, it means the first and second and third craftsmanship of the three-year profile of professional subjects. And there are differences. Zanatically, it's only three years old, so masterly, and here it's dual and three-year-old and four-year-old. So there's this important difference. I think I said yesterday, because I asked Minister Knezevic, that's their domain, that law is done. It might have been better if it had been done so we could use it, but we'll be able to match it safely and make our contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23496	I thank the ministers. Replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23497	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to replicate to the representative of the former regime, Bosko Obradovic. As for the financing of Bosko Obradovic, fewer people who were in power until 2012. First of all, he was funded by DS, through the Ministry of Diaspora. In 2009, Mr. Bosko Obradovic received 300,000 dinars through the Ministry of Diaspora, received over the Ministry of Religion 400,000 dinars in 2008, and in 2008, he received 300 thousand diaspora dinars through the Ministry of Diaspora. Also, he was funded by the DSS. Just to remind you, at the time of the DSS, one of the biggest robberies in Serbia's history was committed. It was financed by the DSS through the public company Kolubara by Mr. Bosko Obradovic and his organisation in 2004 and by the "Colubara" which otherwise lost ten billion dinars to 4.2 million dinars. So much for who funded who. You were funded by the yellow and funded by Kostunica. In the meantime, if anyone else has funded you, we'll figure it out. As far as falsified diplomas are concerned, let me just tell you, Mr. Minister, that's probably what you're interested in. Mr. Bosko Obradović graduated from Professor Milo Lompar who is otherwise a member of the Political Council of the Dveri and on the subject, so he wrote a degree paper on the subject from which Milo Lompra doctored. What old Latina would say, smart enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23498	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23499	Mr. Milicevic, I'm advertising Article 108. I don't think there's a 27-year-old DS theme here that we're proud of. I think you were obliged to distract the bar and the previous speaker, and the one before him. I understand completely that the SNS and the Two are getting in the way of the DS because we're gonna take them down, and we're not gonna let these guys ever come to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23500	You're just right, we should go back to what's the topic and what's the agenda point and I'll respect it. Let me, I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure and the said member for one simple reason, because many times we've said so far, you can't predict what the MPs are going to talk about. But I'm glad you noticed that the replica was caused, not after the debate by the MPs, by one of the MPs from the ranks, but by the opposition, and we will not continue with such a debate, but we will return to the agenda. The word is by MP Branka Stamenkovic. (Bosko Obradovic: I am mentioned by name and last name. How come I don't have the right to a replica? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23501	Thank you. Our Constitution guarantees and says basic education is mandatory and free of charge. Half of this claim is true. Our primary education is mandatory. However, when it comes to this freeness, our basic education in practice is free of charge only as fairy tales. In other words, the costs incurred by parents to educate their children are extremely high financial pressures. It starts with free textbooks that have to be paid, which are not free and which represent one huge blow in September, so through buying school supplies, equipment for physical, art, technical, all other items that are usually too much, by the way. Through various tours that are being organized, by paying private professors to teach children what children at school have not learned, and that's a big problem. Such a system favors children, better-standing parents, and leaves behind the children of poorer parents. We must finally make our education free. I suggest we start with free textbooks. As you know at the last session when we discussed the roof law on primary and secondary education and preschool, the MP group "Enough Enough", she tried to install a member who would guarantee free textbooks with series of amendments in the law. Why? Because obviously what the Constitution says isn't enough. We must in each of these laws we adopt, individually single out a member in which to say – textbooks are free, the purchase costs of textbooks are covered by the budget of the Republic of Serbia. That's more than doable. We calculated that in “Enough was enough”. So, about 560,000 students we have in basic education, getting school textbooks for all of them that should basically be done every four years, is so much a useful century, four generations can benefit from the same textbooks. So the cost of getting all the textbooks is 56m euros. When you set it to these four years, the annual budget cost of the Republic of Serbia is 0.15%. There's no argument that there's no money. We stand out a lot more for subsidies to foreign corporations that came here for cheap labour. In that sense, we have also this time when four new educational laws, amendments that we have submitted, demanded that a place be found in all four laws and that this provision be put in place to guarantee that all future generations, regardless of the changes in ministers, on changes in government, are guaranteed to have free textbooks and that parents are certain that this cost will not be borne. I'm asking you to think about this one more time. We can't welcome any new school year with this parenting burden. It's time for this to become part of free education, even if the textbooks aren't like fairy tales for free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23502	The word is by MP Balša Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23503	Thank you. Mr. Sarčević, we read the explanation that you finally read to us, and we expected you to at least orally tell us something that doesn't say in such a shrewd explanation of dual education. We wanted to hear that dual education will be projected in the next 30 years, and what is our goal, what society we want to have, what fruits of your work will be in 30 years from now in Serbia? Unfortunately, we didn't hear that. Instead of coming to the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today and proposing a law, for example, that all the basics in Serbia get free textbooks, which would relieve their parents of huge costs that they have every 1 September and every year. If you had come and said, let's talk about whether secondary education should become mandatory in Serbia, so that we can have a debate on how and how to increase education and the number of educated in Serbia and whether this increase in the number of educated in Serbia will ultimately be the biggest savings in the Republic of Serbia's budget for the next 30 or 50 years. You came with dual education, with an explanation that absolutely does not exist and of course we cannot support it. Just imagine the situation in which we are also as MPs of the opposition and you as minister and to discuss how much money it is necessary to invest in those children who are talented, in those children who are in high schools and how to help students with new homes, with better conditions to become the most successful experts in this country. If only those 180m euros we spent on buying some of the years-old planes, invested in education, you would be the minister to whom everyone would take off their hat when they met you on the street, because they were talking – here is finally one minister who managed to provide Serbia with a much bigger budget than it has been in the past 10, 20 or 30 years. We are, instead, returning to some of the centuries behind us. Do you know how expensive the money the parents take to buy children's textbooks is? Do you realize how often parents are in debt slavery to buy pillows, shoes, anything someone needs to finish primary or secondary school? Do you know how many kids go to school, and in fact there are no textbooks and no conditions to become a student like some of his peers who have all the conditions secured? Dual education doesn't solve it. Dual education does not improve the situation in Serbia, and it will not make a man a stronger citizen, braver, and will not inhale his confidence. On the other hand, we've been trying to get used to kids facing a harsh labour market, especially non-legislative work and not safe. We have dangerous and difficult jobs that children will be able to do, even though they are at school. Do you know just how many tens of millions of euros were invested by Serbia, or by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the City of Belgrade and Obrenovac Municipality for the Meita factory, 60m euros, to employ several hundred people with 20,000 dinars of wages that have been standing behind the tape for 10 hours and cannot go to the toilet and then carry diapers. You're telling me that now we're going to let some school make a deal with such a "Meita" that this "Meita" as a factory will make a contract, where parents will sign contracts, because their children will work for free for the same factory, because it's cheaper from China to transfer production to Serbia, because it's cheaper labour, and now they're literally getting it for free, and every year they're going to change new generations of students and new generations of students and have retail free production. Who doesn't get paid to use people like that? I want to tell you, it really scares me very much, not only did the Anti-Corruption Agency say this is a deeply corrupt law, not just what the experts said, who wrote the Education Strategy, among them my colleagues, said this had nothing to do with the brain. Not only have many academics said absolutely dual education is not needed by Serbia. The Minister scares me that you didn't ask for the profession to say what he really thinks about this. You adopted the Education Strategy in 2012. You can't tell us in part I accept or in part I don't accept. Your government did it in 2012 by the Dacic-Vučić Government. So it is for you a binding document and according to it you have to act or bring a new education strategy. It is not good that because of some experts from Switzerland that we are paying for, to introduce dual education because, well, some companies have also expressed the need for some young profiles in the Chamber of Commerce, so here you have listed two or three jobs, for 50,000 dinars, and that is the only argument you have come to the Assembly. Well, those two welders will find you anyone in this room to fill those two jobs, but don't, when I ask you, be the only argument that we're depriveing generations and generations of young people of the possibility of education. Why am I telling you this? Because it is not even in accordance with the Constitution and this bill does not comply with the Constitution. In Article 71. The constitution states that basic education is free and mandatory, while high school is free. None of it obviously obliges you to have those kids, and those kids, make sure they get to school tomorrow, start a business. How can business start when serious factories and businesses in Serbia are closed because there is no legal certainty in this country? Of course, it's a prerequisite for everyone to start their own business, but don't tell me that one who earns 12,000 dinars, at the hardest jobs behind the tape, has any chance of starting a business in Serbia. Well, that's a colorful lie and that's the only argument you came to the assembly with. So instead of making this education of citizens who are masters of their fate, we are obviously making cheap extensions of machines and not if it doesn't bother the ruling majority I thought it would bother you who come from education. There's one more thing I need to get under. How does this law apply when it comes to the even development of Serbia? The huge disparities in Serbia's regional and even development exist here because those poor areas in Serbia, and everyone knows that because many come here, will be even poorer, and those richer will be richer. Not the children of SNS officials will go to factories to study schools because they have money, obviously for private schools, to send their children to the best education because they obviously have five or six salaries and they can afford it. But the children of parents who have absolutely no means of schooling them will be forced to move them to a factory, to renovate some cables in diapers and their labour rights absolutely no one will respect, especially those who want to maximise their profits. You cannot give something to the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, even if it gives you an opinion, but not to ask the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. Can't the American Chamber of Commerce, Portuguese, finish, another sentence, Italian to have a stronger word than the academics in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23504	Thank you. Minister Mladen Sarcevic has the word, please welcome the ministers.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23505	Let me just say we heard all this and I don't have a comment on it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23506	Thank you, Minister. The word has Alexander Martinovic, I presume? I apologize to my colleague Martinovic. The word of the People's Messenger, Alexander Jerkov, is a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23507	Thank you, Vice President. I ask you, Article 107, to point out both the Minister and the Minister's associates that they can't budge and turn their eyes as the MPs speak, and that when we say that we care about the companies that use adult people, the full-time workers who enjoy certain rights, we now send children who don't know what their rights are, who don't have rights, because the school has signed a contract with the state, etc., that the least they can do, if they don't already care about what we're saying, to show that they don't care so openly that they don't care about those students we send there, because at the moment when we express such a fearsome, the co-workers of the minister turn their eyes and mock, obviously some kids who are going to go to the companies that are cheaper to hire labour here, rather in China. Also, Mr. Sarcevic won't communicate with us for days, saying that we need to change the board, we don't talk under the board, maybe Mr. Sarcevic is speaking under a board prepared by employers who want cheap labour. When the law is changed, what we're saying will change. Until then, Mr. Sarcevic, you need to talk to us, you can't have a comment. You can't have any comment on any of these things we said, because I guess you came to the Assembly to explain the law, and when we ask you something, you need to answer us, not make fun of yourself like that. The least of the trouble is that you're making fun of us, it's a much bigger problem that you're making fun of your parents whose kids are going to work tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23508	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to declare themselves in the day of the vote? No, I don't. I didn't see it. First of all, you took the opportunity and the minute and 47 seconds to replicate the minister, and about 20 seconds dedicated to hurting the Rules of Procedure. Of course, I've expressed tolerance and nothing else, but no one, at least I haven't seen what you mentioned it to be. (Alexandra Jerkov: I want the National Assembly to declare in the day that vote. You want to, all right. All right. Thank you. The Word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23509	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I want to respond to this Duke of Maldives, who is crying for workers in Serbia. At a time when the Democratic Party ruled Serbia, there was no exploitation, I agree with that, but there was no exploitation. But there was no exploitation for one reason only, no one in Serbia worked. All jobs in Serbia have been shut down, only for four last years their authorities over 400 jobs have been shut down in Serbia, workers have been expelled into the street, and the story of free textbooks has already been proved to be the most common lie. There were never free textbooks for all children in Serbia during the DS. The Duke of Maldives invited me two days ago to bring the index. I brought my index, I don't see anything of his. I don't see that he brought in his party president's index, Dragan Sutanovac, who, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Sarcevic, has otherwise studied a great genius for 12 years. Here, my president and the president of these people around me, the president of our party, we're not some elite, are we, Marianne? We don't belong to this high-ranking gentleman who belongs to the DS, but here we have a president who finished law school in Belgrade for four years, with an average score of 9.44. Since we don't have the Dragan Sutanovac index, I don't know what his average is, and these are his skillfully hiding it. Let's take a look at each other's elite politicians from their ranks, Sasa Jankovic, so let's try to compare whether it's really a elite, or whether it's a quasi elite. Here's this guy, Sasa Jankovic, who was the DS presidential candidate, who says he knows everything about constitutional law, about the rule of law, is having a lot of brains about what happened in Savamola. Mr. Sarčević, please, if you can answer me and check it out, is it true that this great expert in constitutional law was during his studies, for example he had a six in constitutional law, and my president, the ignorant and uneducated Wolf 10? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23510	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Goran Ciric. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23511	By who knows which time is mentioned is DS and who knows which way is broken by a member who says you shouldn't let people talk about the private life in this room the way we don't talk about your lives. But in addition to the assessment of the president you've read here, I think it's important to read the evaluations of the former president of the SNS and the former president of the state, as well as the doctorates we talked about and ministers sitting in these benches and explaining many laws. But more importantly, it's more important to have a relationship with students, it's more important to have a relationship with children who needs free textbooks, and that's what DS is talking about, this is what Mr. Balsa Bozovic is talking about, and that's what Professor Micunovic said in the proposals you refused, which is to pass the law to provide free textbooks for every child in Serbia. Last time I proved to you and here he is sitting with us former Minister of Education, Mr. Zarko Obradovic, who made a statement in his own time in 2011, saying that for two years we have provided free textbooks for students in Serbia. So you can check it out with your coalition partner and I think it's a fact we can't forget and we won't forget it. So it is possible in Serbia to provide free textbooks for all children, and I think it is a more important issue than all those most often mentioned and I think it is important that we hear. Here, I now also invite Mr. Zarko Obradovic as former minister to say whether there were free textbooks during that period of his ministry or not when the SPS was in the coalition and in the government with DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23512	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Martinovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I read these reviews amongst other things and because of that when I entered the National Assembly building today, Antonela Riha, Slavisa Lekic and all these greats of free journalism in Serbia were waiting for me, and here I have a flyer that writes among other things – why are we here? Because citizens and citizens have the right to be truthful, impartial, fully and timely informed about all matters of importance for their lives. Here are the DS gentlemen carrying the badges of Antonela Riha and Slavo Lekic, and when I want to inform the citizens of Serbia in good time and in truth about the issues that are important to them, they object. So, I'm going to pick up where I left off. Sasa Jankovic, an expert on constitutional law, says, we know what the state is, we know what the legal system is, we know what happened in Savamala, we know who organized the Savamala. Mr. Sarčević, I don't know if the exact information, I somehow came up with this information that this too smart Sasa Jankovic got six from constitutional law and imagine a paradox, someone who was the Protector of the Citizens, protected the citizens from the so-called. Bad administrations, that's what Americans and English call a small administration, at least they're my information, from administrative rights 7, and that Sasa Jankovic took all the exams in his political counterparts, with those who still support him today, with those who signed his appeal 100 when he ran for president of the Republic, and my ignorant and uneducated president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, who graduated from the law school with an average score of 9.44, took the exams with the worst political opponents. At Labusus he got 10, constitutional right won 10, Vesna Rakić Vodalić, I don't see where Mr. Zoran Zivkovic is, I guess, parking his shark again, I hope now in a prescribed way, with Vesna Rakić Vodnelic civil rights 10. What does that tell you? This isn't no elite. These are people who have ruined Serbia, who know nothing about the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23514	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23515	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, given that these flyers are being shared at the entrance to the Assembly, I want the media in Serbia to be freed. We as the National Assembly have been followed by RTS... (Balsa Bozovic: On what basis did this gentleman come forward? Wait, don't be nervous, Duke of Maldives. They brought that wine over to you, so you drank it in a hurry, so obviously it's hurting you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23516	My colleague Rističević, I would like to ask you about dual education and to conclude this debate with honor and how it is appropriate for the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23517	I didn't distract him, I listened very carefully. So, I'm fighting for freedom of the media, they're wearing these badges, and I'm asking for the release of RTS, especially the diary because the diary is being edited by Jeremic's godmother, the yellow TV garden and the RTS diary should be released from the godfather, and here is the mention of brother, godfathers, etc., right on the other side, and then the freedom of the media. Then the RTS godfather, Vuk Jeremic, should be freed in the shock show of the journal she has been editing for years. (Radoslav Milojic: Is this about the topic? ) Again, it is time for me to devote myself to dual education, given that I was someone who graduated from school in 1976, that there was a school of students in the economy and I had to start to say that communism was not my order, but as if at that time it was a division of the rule of knowledge that Mr. Martinovic persistently tried to prove here, in which colleagues insisted over. I am for the rule of knowledge, but not calling, some fake 12-year-old students like some Jesici there, etc. With that in mind, Plato said that those who know best should rule. That is why I ask Mr Martinovic to read it well, that our people know that the President of the Republic and the former Prime Minister, whom I congratulate, together with all of you who chose the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, is awarding the World Bank. You of the opposition have certainly heard that Serbia has received recognition as the best in Southeast Europe for investment and employment. You were more of a layoff, though. You've been making more social cases. You didn't hire workers. You've turned workers into poor people, etc., but dual education is being talked about here as if it's the only education. At Plato, there were people who were going to operate, soldiers who knew little less, they went to soldiers, and the producers went to the ones whose school went to the weakest. If you don't have a cobbler, you won't have shoes and you'll pass as barefoot or as an opposition to the election. To have shoes, you have to have a shoemaker. So that we may have the bread they speak of, even if it costs ten times as much. Instead of 150 dinars, it costs 1,500 dinars. Their bakers are some special or they get into those bakerys... (Radoslav Milojic: Who robbed the stock reserves? Here's Heena Ken throwing again, but never mind. To be brought up means to stay and be brought up when you're dealing with rudes. So, the post office sold the buds, so they're flying a little bit in the Maldives, and then the workers were expelled, and they didn't need anyone to work in the economy. We who watched the school of students in the economy know how the school ended, how they were educated, how knowledge was acquired by those people who became masters, builders, carpenters, tailors, waiters, chefs, toolmakers, moths, scrapers. Not only did they bring income to this country in the country but they built half of Africa. They worked in Iraq, Libya and increased the country's national income, but at the same time they prevented metropolis, hired as close as possible to home. There were mixed people who had some countries and I think it's a perspective and through these days they say dual education made knowledge, and in the nearest factories they did it, they did some land, they were aware of their opportunities. And there were those who went to college after the trade, because in the meantime they realized they could learn more. Today when we talk about dual education, it's like it's gonna be the only one. No, it's just an extended possibility for people to gain some knowledge, to make that knowledge applicable, because I've been listening here to a lady who has hairstyle, who I think is in a party called Vuk Jeremic, who has a haircut. How does she think she's got hair if she doesn't have a hairdresser? Should he then make his hair by reading the WikiLeaks and what Vuk Jeremic wrote in muddying his country? Is it necessary for the hairstyle to be furnished by the fact that everything that Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic were doing when they changed the UN resolution and UNMIK's powers were being transferred to EULEX and that they kicked China and Russia out of the process?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23518	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23519	What's that? I've got 12 minutes left. You've made a mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23520	I'm sorry, let's just check it out. I'm sorry, my bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23521	I see you're wrong on my account a lot. But never mind, I don't blame you. There's a proverb said by a Western statesman. He says the worker, illiterate or written, can steal something from the car, he says, but the ones with university diplomats, who were 12, 13 years old, says, they can steal the whole railroad, the whole train, the whole railroad. I think the man was psychic. Translated in Sremak, a vineyard worker can steal grapes, but those with diplomats, especially fakes, those who have graduated from college and have no colleagues from the university, these winemakers, who as if singles were in college, can steal the whole of Fruska Gora. That was the system. That's why they didn't need workers. When they mutilated the economy, when they fired 400,000 people, they produced only calls, calls that weren't completely knowledgeable or applicable. Then the people who ended it ended up in the West. They don't recognize that kind of diploma. Many of our diplomas are not applicable in the West either. They end up there as dishwashers, etc., because there's no work for them here or there. They left them here with no chance, because there's no business and now they're giving us a lecture. I listened to a bookworm from the Chacan library, who hired his brother, sister-in-law, himself, father-in-law, all in public administration, inspectors, seduces, etc. Today he gives us a lecture from dual education, and believe it or not, he graduated from his party. From an educational organization that was supposed to be involved in education, he made a party. He swore in Hilandar and took money to deal with education, that it would be an Orthodox, educational organization, a family type. He swore that he would, it was like a dual education, that he would devote himself to it. Got money from a priest, 5,000 euros and cheated on them. He swore on the Three Hand. Now I can rightly say that someone who tried to create an educational organization of the church type could be "the Holy Left Hand of God", meaning when he took 5,000 euros. Today we are listening to the lecture of the great hope of Vuk Jeremic, Mr Alexic, who found himself in the first five-year-old, 16 thousand workers. There were good scrapers, good rodents, good masters, good locksmiths, produced, and I'll prove to you that they produced the good stuff that she had passed. He hired his mother-in-law to be deputy director. The father-in-law was working at the National Bureau, we called it the Labour Bureau. So, what did they do? All 16,000 people lost their jobs. He is now the new hope of Vuk Jeremic, that he will, like, hire people, and tell you that it is impossible and that sometimes people without a diploma of that kind, as Mr. Alexic, can more, prove that when "The first five-year-old" failed, then the masters, several hundred of them, purchased part of the drive of "The First Five-year-old" and restored, renovated production and regular income, real income, real exports to this country, have no losses and continued to work, while Mr. Alexic, the new economic hope of the descendant Wolf, Vuk Jeremic, was running with the mother-in-law, with the old man, with relatives and Kalanovic, when he was running "The First Five-year-old", there were great minuses. (Radoslav Milojic: Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. "Heineken" throws it again. I really don't know how I'm gonna deal with him, since he's the capacity, he can drink...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23522	Comrade Rističević, just keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23523	He can train people to drink 300 beers in one night. I suggest that he be a dual education instructor, educate bartenders, waiters, for a quick serving, 300 beers should be poured. Secondly, to open a brewery in Glibovac, to pack beer in yellow bottles, and to call the brand "heinekena", dedicated to the character and work of the man who has entrusted Smederjevska Palanka with three budgets and against whom there are reports that the district prosecutor in Smederev will not process, as he tells us, that he is under his protection, and the man has embezzled, according to the prosecutor, 500 million dinars of stolen two, three budgets of Smederjevska Palanka. That's why he's throwing and trying to distract me in every way. Finally, to conclude, we had the glory to raise Serbia from the mud they pushed it into. We should be dedicated. We need time to spend on the rails, the plow, not on the couch, the sofa and the Maldives, like them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23524	Thank you. The word came from counterpart Balša Bozovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I only ask the People's Messengers not to earn, not to threaten from the bench, so we can finish this session in the proper manner. Here you go, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23525	Thank you, Chairman. The 107th article is a violation of the dignity of the Republic Assembly, for the simple reason that you cannot allow someone to treat political inexperiences in this way. We're all fellow MPs. We all have, I guess, basic home education, although it's not often the case with many. But I would like to ask you to react even in the event of the most beloved Vucician MP Marijan Risticevic speaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23526	Thank you. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? (Balsa Bozovic: Yes. I am really trying to introduce, as are all those who are chairman, some order and discipline and, of course, encourage the MPs to conduct reasoned debates. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Radoslav Milojic: Replica! Mr. Milojić, you have no right to a replica. No one named you. I'm not here, or any of the presidents, to decrypt anything. You are a People's MP for me here, Mr. Radoslav Milojic and nothing else. I'm not going to decrypt anything. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23527	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have never cursed anyone here. I am advocating Article 101, Art. 103, 106, 107, 108, and 109, that famous attitude 7, and if that parliamentary group has time, you need to take away their time, because Mr. Balsa Bozovic hardly abused the Rules of Procedure, trying to say that I offended someone. The whole time I was talking, and that's about the article. In 108 and 109, Mr. Chairman, I didn't blame you, Mr. Heineken was in my direction referring very harsh words, throwing. I believe it was swearing, but it doesn't matter. A man can't make anyone respect you, so you can't make anyone respect you, but you can stand up to anyone who doesn't respect you. I respected all my colleagues. Apparently, they don't have that kind of home education they're talking about. They can try to insult me, but she has a famous saying, the minister certainly knows, that a wise man with equal peace endures insults and receives praise. So this kind of exposure to the Duke of Maldives can't offend me. I'm a very wise man to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23528	Do you want the National Assembly to plead? (Marian Risticevic: No. Thank you. Alexander Martinovic answered the word. On what grounds? (Alexander Martinovic: Replica. Here you go. (Radoslav Milojičić: Hurt of the Rules of Procedure! Injury of the Rules of Procedure! You cannot abuse the Rules of Procedure. (Radoslav Milojic): How do you know what I'm going to use?- I'm sorry. Shame on you! What does this look like? The breach of the Rules of Procedure takes precedence over all other speakers. I've already warned you several times not to throw or yell. It doesn't make sense. I don't want to debate with you. Mr. Alexander Martinovic has a word. Here you go. Take it easy, Mr. Milojits. (Radoslav Milojic: You're going to tell me to calm down?- I'm sorry. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23529	I'm asking you, Mr. Marinkovic, just to give me my time. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23530	We'll make up for the time. Here you go, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23531	I thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. I don't know why they're nervous about ruining Serbia, maybe Gilas told them to win, because he heard they wanted to leave Sutanovec and go to his camp, so they got nervous. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Mr. Marijan Risticevic asked me to read Alexander Vukić's reviews to the end. Radoslav Milojic: You're making a circus here. ) You see how nervous they are, as soon as Alexander Vukic and his grades are mentioned, those who do not know who Nadezda Petrovic and Slobodan Jovanovic are starting to scream. Here, Marianne, I will now try to explain to you why Alexander Vukic is successful in the work he does, both as Prime Minister and as President of the Republic. Because he was an excellent student. Because he obtained 10 from the introduction right, from general sociology 10, from the history of the state and the rights of the people of Yugoslavia, an important subject, 10. (Radoslav Milojičić: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Because he received 10 from constitutional law because he received 10 from the political economy at Labus because he received from administrative law 8 because he received from international public law 9 because he received 10 from international private law, because he received from the civil procedural law at Vesna Rakic Vodalić, mayoral candidate for Belgrade Zoran Zivkovic, and Sasa Jankovic 6, because he received 10 from finance and financial law, because of his management science, one important science that he should know well anyone who deals with politics, got 10, because he received from political systems, because Alexander Vukic was an extraordinary Prime Minister and an extraordinary President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23532	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic. Here you go. (Radoslav Milojičić: According to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Milojić, once again, please try all the time... (Radoslav Milojic: I have the right to the Rules of Procedure. It's my right. You can't take away my right to the Rules of Procedure. I have the right to appeal for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please, you're gonna make me give you a warning, even though I don't want to. I'm here in charge of the session, and I want us to finish it the way it's supposed to be. Please sit down. (Radoslav Milojic: Don't beg me. I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has the People's MP Vladimir Orlic. (Radoslav Milojičić: You have no right not to give me a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I have the right to hold a session in an honorable and dignified manner, and you have a warning, first. (Radoslav Milojic: You have no right. First you let Martinovic talk for three minutes, and according to the Rules of Procedure, it's two minutes. What does this look like? You're not giving anyone any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Orlic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23533	I want to speak, Mr. Chairman, just ask that it be made possible, if this terribly nervous man has finished his presentation and if you can make it up to me for a minute. So, in gratitude to all those who have expressed support for the bill's proposals, I want to say to you, Mr. Minister, that this debate has not shown in two sense both to us and to these nervous ones who earn and insult further that these laws are indeed excellent continuity in those efforts that have made Serbia, among other things, and this is the data from this year, progressing 12 places on the World Economic Forum ranking list by the global competition index, and this is precisely thanks to the quality of the education system for 10 positions. Also, regarding the same area, the area of education, Serbia is the right on the University List relative to the level of development, a list that works "university 21". Also, data from this year on a planetary level. All together, when it comes to our education, but also to the state of the economy that is the engine of this country's development, it can only make us justify this result, which is also the result of this year, the IBM, which says Serbia is the world leader by the number of jobs opened we look at according to the number of residents, again the world-wide result. As Serbia does good and smart things, Serbia notes these results. Do not mind the criticisms of those who have shown that they do not know what subsidies are, or how useful they are, or what education is, or what is the content of the law, or who is dual, or who is Nadezda Petrovic, or who is Milutin Milankovic, or those of their listeners who do not know who Vuk Stefanović Karadzic is, who is Dossetj Obradovic, because they love to deal with money exclusively. The recommendation on my part is to take a good look at the denominations of different values, because there they will also be able to see Nadezhda Petrovic, those with more expensive tickets and Milutin Milankovic, and while they are engaged in abuse in the discussion in the details they have already announced, citizens who watch this, if asked about the topics of free textbooks, because they have again announced that they will talk about, that they know, those textbooks that have never been one on their expensive suits, one of them are backed up in their duplexes on Vrakar, there they are in the foundations of those return pastures, deposited on accounts.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23534	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23535	While they're doing it and the citizens are doing it, we're going to create and produce results.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23536	Thank you. (Balsa Bozovic: Replica. ) Mr Bozovicu You do, but no one mentioned DS in the presentation. [[(Balsa Bozovic: I am authorized. I'm entitled to a replica.]] (Balsa Bozovic: Mr. Martinovic spoke about textbooks discussed by DS. Just a moment, please. I didn't understand it, and I don't want to understand it. (Balsa Bozovic: Give me two minutes on the agenda. ) So, colleague Orlic, just a moment, we're talking all the time, we're not going to have a dialogue, my goal is to hold a session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and let me explain. As an authorised representative of the SNS, Orlic had time, and at that time he used it in the very end of today's debate. No moment has been mentioned through his exposure to DS. It's not my problem, it's not the DS mentioned. (Balsa Bozovic: Two minutes on the agenda. You can't because there's no DS mentioned. (Balsa Bozovic: You weren't in the O.R., you weren't in the lead then. ) My colleague Maja Vidinović has the opportunity to point to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and the replica does not. Here you go, colleague Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23537	Mr. Milicevic, the fact that you took over the presidency a few minutes ago does not release you from the responsibility to follow the course of the session. If you're ready to take over, these are the things that happened just before they asked for a word. You have no right to disrespect the Rules of Procedure. I remind you of my obligation under Article 27(2) and the demand for a direct injury both by my colleagues Balša Bozovic and your colleague Milojic does not allow your previous to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. As you mock, not the people's MPs, but the citizens of Serbia with this play by the favourite MPs Aleksandr Vukic, Marijana Risticevic and others who are breaking and gaining the right to replication, one on the other, it is your obligation to make it possible to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23538	I respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which I will do now. (Radoslav Milojic: You will not silence us. You'd better go outside and see the pensioner protest, who's got nothing to eat. You have a warning, Mr. Milojich. (Radoslav Milojic: Say one more.) ) No, I will now explain to my colleague Vidinović, colleague Balsa Bozovic... (Radoslav Milojic): You have nothing to explain. I'll make it possible for you to speak... (Radoslav Milojic): You gave Martinovic three minutes, and he has two minutes to go. ) Col. Martinovic had two minutes and 47 seconds because he started talking in 47 or 50 seconds because he couldn't speak from you before. (Radoslav Milojic: It was Orlic. ) As for counterpart Balša Bozovic, counterpart Balša Bozovic asked for the right to replication and I could not give him the right to replication, I said already why. Of course, each of us has a responsibility, each of us vice presidents, I agree with you, colleague Vidinovic, but you must agree with me as well. The right to replica - in accordance with Article 104(3) to exercise the rights set out in Articles 1 and 2 of this Article shall be decided by the President of the National Assembly, the replica cannot last more than two minutes. Col. Marinkovic decided that his colleague Milojičić did not have the right to replica under Article 104. After that, a colleague named Milojicic advertises a violation of the Rules of Procedure... (Radoslav Milojic: You weren't watching. You can't explain. Let me. You can't play. One day we'll call and ask for the right to reply, another time... (Radoslav Milojic: There is nothing to explain. My colleague Vidinovic asked me to explain the move. Isn't that right, colleague Vidinovic? That's what you insisted on. (Maya Vidinovic: I was interrupted in half sentence.) You'll get it, of course. Here you go, but don't get in touch with any of your other colleagues, but contact me on what's been done to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23539	Thank you for this unsolicited interpretation of something you didn't testify to. I'm trying to be precise with words, so I'm asking you to follow me closely. Your predecessor had been in violation of the Rules of Procedure for 20 minutes, mocking the citizens of Serbia by denying the opposition's MPs the chance to explain what the Rules of Procedure had been broken, and the Rules of Procedure had been violated, here was the argument, in the fact that the chairman had abused him. Here we have several SNS MPs who are replicating themselves and are using it to insult journalists and journalists. This is what they use to, the incredible achievement that the Serbian president has graduated from college. I congratulate him on that. Maybe it's one of the few things he's done honestly in his life.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23540	Why are you trying to abuse again?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23541	That's what DS congratulates him on. He's allowed... So, by violating the Rules of Procedure, you do not allow MPs in the National Assembly of the opposition to show and explain what this is about. It's an injury, not what you tried to answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23542	Would you like the National Assembly to declare in the day of voting on the alleged breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. I thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23543	104. So, Mr. Milicevic, I'm completely consterned, which your president would say, how and how you run the session and it's obvious that the Rules of Procedure don't apply to everything equally. So either you have a favorite opposition in this House, so you allow them replicas, even when they're not mentioned, even when it has nothing to do with the agenda topic of what the minister or someone from another party said, and you don't give me. Half an hour, I listen to insults to my personal account, at the expense of the party I come from, at the expense of the MP's club, with those who eventually plagiarized or photocopied their scientific works, which are spoken of by their officials like Oliver Antic. So, I want to tell you that I have the right to a two-minute replica to speak on the subject of the agenda. I don't care, believe me, and for Mr. Martinovic, and whether he plagiarized his scientific work or not. I really don't want to waste any time on that. I want to talk about dual education for two minutes, Mr. Orlic's replica. I don't understand, free textbooks, it's a theme for you to run away from like a devil from a cross. I don't know what that is. Free textbooks won't do anyone any harm. On the contrary. Please allow me two minutes to say something to Mr. Minister and Mr. Orlic about free textbooks, which is why they are important to Serbia. Believe me, we don't advocate free textbooks because it's a whim. The question is, were there free textbooks in decades behind us, the question is, would there be a SNS today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23544	I thank my colleague Bozovic. What you were talking about, I just made it very precise and clear to you specifically. Just because a colleague Martinovic or a colleague of Orlic, I think Orlic spoke about free textbooks, does not mean that you have the right to reply. You have not mentioned at any moment either you or the parliamentary group, or the party to which you belong. There's absolutely no basis for replication. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, first of all, MP Aleksandra Martinovic. (Alexandra Jerko: I answered before Martinovic was safe. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23545	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I really don't understand why these Gilas MPs are so nervous. As soon as the index and grades of Alexander Vukic are mentioned and shown, they jump out like you're pulling out their eyes. For two years, dear friends and dear citizens of Serbia have been campaigning against the SNS and its officials for how we stole something, how we have some counterfeit diplomas, how we bought colleges. I invite my colleague Bozovic to bring his index, I'll bring mine. Here, I brought it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23546	My friend Martinovic, just talk to me. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23547	Here, I'm talking to you. I brought my index, Mr. Milicevic. I don't see that Mr. Bozovic brought his index. But I also brought the index, or photocopy of Alexander Vukic's index. They killed us how we forged something, how we stole it, etc. The man graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in four years with an average score of 9.44 and they jump, scream, insult, say we insult them. Why do I insult the DS MP if I read the average score and the estimates from the individual cases of the president of my party and the president of the Republic of Serbia? I really don't see why I'm so nervous. Let me tell you, Mr. Milicevic, they didn't bring the index. They didn't bring their president's index. They did not bring their presidential candidate Sasa Jankovic's index. I now promise them, as I promised for the index, my index and Vucic's index at the first next session, i.e. on the first next working day of the National Assembly, will bring the property map of Alexander Vukic... (Balsa Bozovic: Scientific paper by Martinovic) You've plagiarized scientific work. And Tom's index and Andrej Vukic, and Nicole Petrovic... )......................................................................................................... . since the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic. And Nicole Petrovic and Andre Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23548	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Messenger of the People, Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23549	Thank you. Can I, like Mr. Martinovic, advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure? I think I can. So, I would ask Mr. Martinovic, except that everyone is probably fascinated, they find one member of their party who didn't buy a degree and read his grades here five days to listen to them...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23550	Will you speak...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23551	Mr. Martinovic, Mr. Milicevic, I don't know if you've known him for five years, published the same scientific work under different titles. Each time he took a fee, which was established by the Faculty of Law in Novi Sad, which condemned his party colleagues and is now giving lectures here on how he honorably deals with science. I would only ask him when he brings those property tickets so he doesn't forget Tom Nikolic's index, so he doesn't forget the doctorate of Nebojja Stefanovic, Sinisha Mali, Jorgovanka Tabakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23552	My colleague Jerkov...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23553	Do not forget to bring the property map of Nikola Petrovic, Andrej Vukic, Zvonko Veselinović, to all people who made a fantastic fortune during your rule, so when we show that we show everything, Mr Martinović, not to choose what suits us, what doesn't suit us, because having someone graduate from college, believe me, will not fascinate us.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23554	My colleague Jerkov, you have neither indicated the member you are referring to... (Alexandra Jerkov: Neither is Martinovic. It is. Take a stenogram and see for yourself. (Alexandra Jerkov: Let's say Article 107) How about now? That seems like at the beginning of the presentation that the chairman could give you his word. It seems at the beginning of the presentation and you know it very well. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23555	Article 107, Mr. Milicevic. Let me just tell these nervous Gilas MPs... (Alexandra Jerkov: Now I said 107)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23556	You didn't even say a member. Radoslav Milojic throws it away. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23557	She didn't even say a member. Here I come to you, Mr. Milicevic. As you can see, I'm pretty calm. I'm not nervous. I'm trying to explain the SNS attitude. They say I found one, thinking of Alexander Vukic who didn't buy a diploma. Did you buy your diploma? My love, did you buy your degree?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23558	A colleague of Martinovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23559	Honey, did you buy your degree? Veroljub Matić, graduate engineer of geodesy, did you buy your degree? (DS MEETING INDISTINCTLY) Boban Birmanchevic, Doctor of Science, did you buy your degree? Light Micin, did you buy your degree? Goran Kovacevic, did you buy your degree?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23560	Comrade Martinovic, can we just...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23561	Here, I've listed ten people here who haven't bought a diploma.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23562	I agree. Please point to me. What is the violation of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23563	Insulting the National Assembly's dignity when you say all SNS officials bought a diploma. I'm trying to explain that it's a dangerous lie that's been against Alexander Vukic and the SNS for two years. This is where I list ordinary people, people of flesh and blood. Some are doctors, some are engineers, some are lawyers, some are economists, some are graduate engineers of geodesy. None of them bought their degree. Now I'm asking these Gilas speakers who are very nervous today...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23564	Talk to my colleague Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23565	I'm talking to you, Mr. Milicevic. Let them bring their index, let them bring their party president's indexes, bring their presidential candidate Sasa Jankovic's index, called Sasa Prangi, who finished Law School with an average score of seven and there will be no problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23566	Thank you. Maja Vidinović throws. We don't want a colleague named Vidinović. I agree with you, but we're going to have to talk about what's the agenda point. According to Article 112, we'll take a break from a minute, and then we'll get back to the agenda. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Minister Mladen Sarcevic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23568	To thank all the MPs at the discussions and for the debate on the laws that were the topic of the agenda, because in this way and past and this month we have united the topic which is very important for the overall development and quality of education in Serbia. So, the system laws on education and education and higher education, with today's discussions united for the law on pre-school, primary and secondary education and within it in dual terms, make up one continent. Behind this comes hundreds of normative acts that we have to do, so we really think that we will fully manage to reform, for starters, a legislative framework that will give us a better quality of education, a more efficient system. We spoke today and yesterday most of all about so-called. a dual education that caused great controversy, which we expected. Not from the point of view that the right debate is being held, but from the aspect of the day-to-day policy, which is why I am very sorry. It lives, it exists and develops, and children love it and parents love it. Whatever you think, let him go through Serbia a little bit, and he'll be able to find out for himself. About 2,000 companies said they needed this. Of course we're serious and responsible people and we're going to take care of the safety of children, of good contracts, of the good behavior of students, of both school and the place where they're going to practice teaching. We're not a state without roots and since yesterday. Once, in the old regime, when the state was in socialism, it was the only manager, so it was done exactly the way we intend to keep doing it. The law has this quality that is not prescribed by anyone and we simply don't have that manner of going around Europe and cheating, but we needed to look at many countries for how they did it, so that they wouldn't make mistakes, because Serbia missed out a lot of time and there's no story here whether education has been a problem for 12 years. I personally work 38, I think all 38 are in big trouble, out of money, out of no ideas, where it's better and how, from weak role models and a lot of things. I wouldn't have had time to list all of your weaknesses, but I can tell you that in live conversations with colleagues all over Serbia, we've visited over two-thirds of the local self-government, talked to hundreds of people from various institutions, held active directors in almost all places, from KIM to Saturday. There's a good spirit everywhere and there's a recognizability of what we're doing. So what we're doing is no newspaper. We have chosen from pedagogical practice, which is famous in the world, what makes the best part of the system and to academic education, but we will try to give even better solutions in the context of higher education. We still have a lot of work to do. There have been a lot of stories about textbooks, I said last time and now that by the end of this calendar year we will be in the Assembly with another set of laws, which is a national qualification framework, which is very important for us to come to European support so that we can do this further and that is related to the Dual Law. Also, the Law on textbooks has grown sufficiently so that it cannot be solved by changes and additions. We're going to have an intense public debate where we're really going to round up this whole thing that's very important. On the other hand, since the New Year, we have been preparing to do a new law on science funding and a new law on funding for higher education. That's how we circled that part of the system. Meanwhile, a national framework for curricula and curricula has been developed or, somebody says, curricula. So it's a comprehensive act where we also pointed out on the Committee on Education that many of the processes that have been going in the wrong direction in recent years, so on. The workshop project almost became a national framework of curiculum, which is one very lumpy document. We took advantage of his advantages and made much more quality documents. It reformed the first cycle of primary school, i.e. first reading, also the fifth grade, and these days it will be published in official educational messengers. The school has been reformed, the project of national graduation, general, professional and artistic, and a number of things has been completed, and we are particularly proud of the digitalisation processes, as the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development will have a special sector in its system next year for this, as well as the entrepreneurship sector. It is weak to notice that we are in the fifth basic, today we did not talk about it, if the topic was the Law on Fundamental Education, that we have in the fifth class a subject – technique, technology and entrepreneurship. So, the serious countries we can look up to, I may have said by mistake the term smarter, but I'll always accept that I'm not as smart as the Swiss, I'll always think that a man of them can learn what-what. More than two and a half centuries ago, they decided to be smart, and that's what they're doing today. I think they're good teachers, and she's not standing there talking about them taking some money from us. It's a shame to talk, let alone repeat it without any evidence. We have a lot of work to do, we need to train over 80,000 people, change the concept of learning, teaching and teaching, and that's the biggest job that's waiting for us. We need to courteous schools, restore education and get dozens of jobs, such as sports, school tourism, nutrition and a series of other things to be arranged these days and weeks ahead of us. The public will be seriously informed. That's why great teams were created, and that's why people who only work from enthusiasm, no experts. We invite colleagues from the profession, we invite people from the university, and I think almost everyone responds. This is an invitation to all of you who are engaged in education to report to us in this contribution. Thank you for everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23569	I thank Minister Sarčević. I am concluding a joint principled single search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 1 to 8 of the agenda. We're going back to work. We are moving on to a joint single search on points 8 to 12 of the agenda. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 8 to 12 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 192 and Article 97 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the Parliament group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs (Article 96(4)). Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. ) pursuant to Article 192, paragraph 3, and in accordance with Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which were submitted by the President of the National Assembly, Maja Gojkovic (number 02-2968/17 of 19 October 2017); Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the appointment of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who submitted the SNS parliamentary group, as of 18 October 2017; Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted the SNS parliamentary group, as of 18 October 2017; Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted the parliamentary group of SPS, as of 17 October 2017; Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of the members of the Republic of Serbia, the 25th Parliament of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the year, which had been sent to the Republic of Serbia. Do the motionor or representatives want a word, Maja Gojkovic, National Assembly President Dr Vladimir Orlic, SNS deputy president Neđo Jovanovic, SPS deputy president and Sasa Radulovic, president of the parliamentary group Enough? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since the lists of parliamentary groups have not been reported for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96 want to do so. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a joint single search on the proposals for decisions referred to in points 8 to 12 of the agenda. Now we're gonna take a break. Today we continue at 4:00 p.m., asking parliamentary questions to members of the government last Thursday of the month, and the second session of the Second Regular Session is on Tuesday 31 October 2017, starting at 10.00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23570	Dear People's MPs, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 19.00 hours, according to article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I remind you that the presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. Then, it has the right to, for a maximum period of three minutes, comment on the answer to its question or to ask an additional question and finally declare a two-minute answer. I remind you that no replicas and references are allowed to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, as referred to in Article 216. Rules of Procedure and accordingly, I ask the Members of Parliament to submit applications for questions. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the current practice of the work of the National Assembly, so that, in turn, the first word will be given to MPs who do not belong to any of the parliamentary groups, and then MPs from the least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23571	Ladies and gentlemen, my question is addressed to the Prime Minister, Minister Zorana Mihajlovic and Rasim Ljajic. How is it possible in the 21st century that Novi Pazar, as a very important centre of the Sanjay region, has no railway, no pipeline, and the roads between Novi Pazar and Sjenica and Novi Pazar and Tutina, as well as Sjenica, Novi Varoshi, Pryboj, are the worst roads in the whole country? I mentioned Minister Rasim Ljajic for the reason we had a visit to President Erdogan in 2010 and then with President Tadic and Minister Ljajic, when it was publicly promised that the roads of Tutin - Novi Pazar - Sjenica would be built. It's been seven years, and they haven't even started the work, and we don't have any serious signs of that. Unfortunately, we have very frequent deaths on those roads and it's really finally time to start with that, or at least we get answers as far as we're concerned. The second issue concerns kidnappings in Strpci, Severin, killings in Kukurovici and other similar events from 1992 and 1993. As it is known to the public, then the most likely liquidated citizens of this country were abducted. My question to the Prime Minister and the other competent ministers is – when will the change of government's policy on this matter take place? Unfortunately, these issues have so far been treated exclusively administratively, through the judiciary. We already have these days that some lawsuits have been dropped in the Court of Appeal, and the fact that no one has shown up as a representative of the government at any of these occasions. The third question concerns demographics, i.e. migration. We know that there are bodies dealing with these issues, but my question is, what exactly does it seem to stop the migration of the village to the city, which threatens to absolutely and strategically threaten the survival of the entire population, and above all, I mean villages with high altitudes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23572	There's a minister's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23573	I want a good day for the citizens of Serbia and respected MPs. I'm glad I'm here today with my team. I had a great desire to come here and answer the questions of you MPs, and also to present through the answers what we did in the first 100 days of government work. I am, as I said before, extremely pleased with what the government has done in the first 100 days. I think we have shown that we can move on hard and bravely without any standing, because Serbia has no time to lose, although we are facing a large number of problems. I have to say my own opinion now, because I did not have this kind of opinion to this extent, previously, while I was only the Minister of State Administration and local self-government, I could not see the whole situation, and I was new to the government, we are certainly facing a large number of problems in various areas, because Serbia, unfortunately, was both abandoned and forgotten and led in one completely unprofessional way, if I could even say that it was run in an unprofessional way. I think it's best to say she was abandoned. What's important to me to say, and I'm going to give Minister Mihajlovic a chance to respond to the section around the roads, is that's exactly what we're facing. So we're working on travel infrastructure, like any other infrastructure, more than ever. And here we have the information that, from 2008, as far as highways are concerned, it was built about 100 km to 2013 in a semi-profile, and since then one three times more highways in full profile. As for rehabilitated local roads, we had some 500km of rehabilitated local roads until 2012, since then, more than 700km of completely rehabilitated and additional about two thousand kilometers of reconstructed and built state roads, along the highways. So we're trying to get to every part of Serbia. It's going fast, but it's not going fast enough compared to what we found and how much it takes. You know for a fact that today, when you need to go to Serbia, for example. I traveled from Nis to Pozeg once, easier to leave and come from Belgrade to Cape Town. So whatever you do isn't good enough, but we're doing our best and I'm saying there's going to be a Raška area, a Novi Pazar, a Shadow and a pipeline. So this is all what we're planning and what we're trying to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23574	The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23575	Very short. So in 2010, it is true that not only was it promised to build these roads from Novi Pazar and Sjenica and Novi Pazar and Tutin, but also signed a protocol with the Turkish government to finance and build the two shares. I think it was about $40 million. However, the problem has arisen in the implementation of the loan, due to two things. Turkey demands that its companies participate in the reconstruction of the two-and-a-half, interest rate levels. It seems to me that Zorana would correct me if I was wrong, that it started with 6.4%, and then they went down to 4.6%, which is an interest rate greater than the credit we got from Azerbaijan and China, and that was unacceptable. Now, during President Erdogan's visit, one of the central topics of the talks was the construction of not only those two routes, but the construction of road infrastructure throughout Serbia. In November, we expect a visit from Turkey "Exim Bank" to discuss exclusively the level of interest rates. Yesterday I learned, Ankara called to say that Turkey has defined one part of the funds, a significant part of the funds, about 500m euros to finance the construction of infrastructure in Serbia and is now looking for a funding model. Whether loans will be received by Turkish construction firms, which will then take part in tenders here to build roads, or whether it will be some other type of credit at more favourable interest rates, really at this point I can't say, but certainly it will be absolutely one of the priorities, as the prime minister said, as long as it arrives and what conditions will we get at this point I can't really argue. Just for a little while, as far as the pipeline is concerned. I wasn't directly involved in it, of course. I know the budget includes the funds provided for in the Ministry of Energy, it seems to me, it was a project that should have been financed in time by the Slovak government, i.e. the Slovak banks in the construction of a pipeline from Alexandrovac via Kopalnik, Novi Pazar and Tutin. There are still these funds at the position of the Ministry of Energy, it seems to me that there is some working group that should be working on the implementation of this project.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23576	Thank you very much. The word is Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23577	Thank you. In the last three years, when we talk about investing in traffic, not to mention highways at all now, but just to talk about how much investment was being invested in maintenance, rehabilitation of roads, any state, any local, although local, above all, local self-government, regardless, the state has taken a lot of responsibility and has helped local self-governments to realise that there is probably no more important thing, but to have infrastructure, whether it's energy, whether it's traffic, whether it's communal. First of all, I'm going to tell you some important information, I don't know if you know it, but I asked it to be listed. So Raška municipality 2015, 2016 and 2017 150 million dinars only for regular maintenance. The municipality of Novi Pazar, now I'm going to tell you on purpose years per year, to see that every year the amount of money that was given has increased, now I'm only talking about regular maintenance. So in 2015 82 million, 2016 110 million, 2017 210 million, a total of about 400 million just for regular maintenance. Tutin 112, 132, 100 million, 350 million, means in the last three years. So all I'm talking about is regular maintenance. The second thing we've done in the past three years is for all of Serbia, I'll tell you exactly about the space, so Raska, Novi Pazar and Tutin. We are in debt as a state of 400m euros, more specifically 300m euros is from the World Bank's loan, the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and 100m euros from our state budget to rehabilitate 1,000km of roads. We did exactly in five years which are miles in Serbia's territories, so we tried to cover what is really the most critical, and these are the critical directions that you said and they are on schedule, so for 2017, the end of the call for documentation, in 2018 and 2019 for work. A total of 250km in this part of Serbia needs to be rehabilitated from the loan. In addition, when Deputy Prime Minister Rasim LJajic now mentioned interest rates, I think it is important that you know that on the last visit of the Turkish president we were just discussing this interest rate, because it was really unacceptable for us to talk 6.5%, 5.5%, especially today when we know on the capital market what conditions look like. We have one big promise from the president of Turkey that the interest rate is below 2%, that we will wait, wait for negotiations and expect that in this sense we will be able to isolate, or as a state, to guarantee a loan for further investment in roads. What's also important is that, despite this investment in regular maintenance and rehabilitation, I think it's equally important to move into municipal infrastructure and there are already some discussions with the Novi Pazar municipality that we can through certain joint investments in the municipalities and budgets of the Ministry of Construction, because we are also engaged in investing in municipal infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23578	Thank you. The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23579	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, Mr Zukorlic, one of the questions that you asked, or lastly, concern villages and concerns what the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing to keep people living in the premises you spoke of there. I'm just going to give you a few hits, and I think it's very important to know about the whole public. I must say that the Ministry of Agriculture has a very good co-operation with the presidents of the municipalities, unfortunately, one of the deceased at the moment is President of the Tutin Municipality. We have agreed a serious project to build a water supply system in the Tutin and Sjenica municipality. For this purpose, 50 million dinars were allocated this year, in 2017, to build a water supply system. This includes space at extremely high altitudes where people have so far, and you have followed through public information means, that many people have problems every year to provide water for themselves, as well as to provide the water that is necessary for the development of their livestock, i.e. for the complete system of production that they have there in that space. This year, the project was launched. Next year it will be continued and I expect it to be over. It's about the water infrastructure. As far as direct agriculture is concerned. I have to say that these days there will be a special rule about small producers that will exclusively concern the so-called. traditional meat and milk processing. So far we have not had such a situation, we have not had such a practice, but whoever wanted to market, whether the markets were local, regional or in the whole of Serbia wanted to come out or to export, had to meet the same conditions whether it was processing small quantities of goods or that it was a processing that exceeded the capacity of tens or hundreds of thousands of tons of meat. So this way we want to allow these little ones to process milk, to process meat by respecting the conditions of food safety, but to have lower criteria for how they can get into the whole system so they can provide for themselves and their families. I think it's very important. It's about people who go out to local markets, it's mostly markets or some similar things that are in their immediate environment, and thus enable them to add value to make sure that they don't have to sell primary agricultural products but that they can make them in their own household. The ministry will especially help to obtain equipment, build such facilities so that those persons can provide themselves with their existence as high as possible. As for space at higher altitudes. As of next year, special programmes based on national measures will begin, therefore, on measures concerning the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and also through IPARD, where we will allow those involved in livestock farming in those areas to receive special financial benefits to facilitate their agricultural production, facilitate the development of their livestock fund, and on the other hand to get greater financial support to stay in those areas. It's all in the domain of the Ministry of Agriculture. Now not to worry too much, there are a lot of measures involved and special incentives if you live in areas with difficult operating conditions, where if someone gets a 50% boost, so a 50% subsidy from the value of getting equipment, if these areas are 65% vomiting. So, if something costs 10,000 euros in usual cases, it gets back 5,000 euros, and when it comes to areas with special operating conditions, the amount of funds will be recovered in six and a half thousand euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23580	The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23581	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Ambassador Zukorlic for launching the gas pipeline issue that needs to provide gas supplies to Raska, Novi Pazar and Tutin. It's a project we call officially Alexandrovac-Tutin. I want to inform you that this is one of the most important projects that is currently being developed in the area of gas infrastructure. We recognized that this project is important for that part of Serbia, considering the fact that it is indeed a priority for the government of the Republic of Serbia to attract investors in that part of Serbia that has a lot of young people, the need for large employment. We are aware of the fact that it is impossible to develop a serious industrial zone unless necessary infrastructure is provided and almost all investors planning their entry into Serbia as one of the key aspects are currently treating gas supplies. For that reason, this project, as I said, is in our priority. We have made a decision on the development of a spatial plan of a specific purpose area. He is currently in the so-called early public insight, which will last 30 days. Funding for these initial activities has been provided. The project is carried out by “Srbijagas”. This has nothing to do with the agreement of Slovakia, it is now a project that fully develops "Srbigas". The 2017 budget provided for the figure, i.e. the amount of the guarantee appropriations. This will also be in the 2018 budget. We expect construction works to begin in July or August 2018. So the contracts have already been signed, the design is under way, and the spatial plan ends very quickly. I expect, i.e. In some ways, the project should be completed by the end of 2019. I don't like to bid deadlines, and I know how ungrateful that is, considering the very complex terrain that that pipeline is going through. I'd say it's early 2020. How big the project speaks and the value of the projects, and the project is worth 48m euros. I repeat, it will provide gas supplies for the Bath, for Raska, Novi Pazar and Tutin. So, I think that's good news, good news for the citizens of that part of Serbia, and I hope that we will all attend together the beginning of construction work that, as I said, is expected in July 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23582	Thank you. Here you go, additional question.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23583	Thank you. I especially look forward to this latest response that contains concrete information on the implementation of the pipeline plan and that is indeed a joyous news. On the other hand, I am fully aware and ready to witness the fact that the government has, both in recent years, and the previous one, invested enormous energy in addressing infrastructure issues that have been the result of the past decades of delays and decade in that field. So, I don't want to question it in any way, as well as the fact that it is in the focus and the space I'm talking about and the paths I'm talking about, but I wanted to further point out by my question that where it's extremely late, or where it's extremely bad, then we need to have extra effort to at least catch an average. You mentioned, say, the path you witnessed, the road from Nis to Požega. You know, that road from Nis to Požega is like a Swiss road compared to these roads I'm talking about. That's why it really takes extra effort and extra energy and extra resources to just catch some positive zeroes, so let's move on. Because you can't explain to the citizens of New Market that it's possible in the 21st century that you don't have a railway line, whatever, but simply the symbolism of the lack of that railway tells you about a relationship between previous policies that didn't put it on the agenda. If we put it on the agenda, let's just make it more significant. This is not the first meeting and conversation with the Minister of Agriculture about the village, but my beliefs are, and I am constantly potential, and I have therefore asked this question, villages with particularly difficult circumstances of life, such as villages of high altitudes, they must be approached more drastically and radically. My proposal certainly was to go with drastic radical measures of tax relief to motivate these people. Believe me, this doesn't just apply to Sandzak and the cave highlands, it's a historical-sociological fact. First the villages of high altitudes disappear, and then the villages remain, and then the cities. Let's not think that it's none of our business, it's a strategically extremely important question, and I'm sorry I didn't get an answer about Strpce and the North. Please, I'd like the Prime Minister to come forward.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23584	The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23585	Thank you very much. Once again, I must say that I fully understand what you say and, believe me, I understand and frustration. It often happens, if not every day, that we in the government are frustrated with things that can't go simply fast enough because it's been so late, and we're doing our best. Believe me, when you get here, you don't know where to start, because that's the situation. Here, I'm going to give you an example of the easy things that you'd think were already over and that we're in that sense a normal country. Not to mention construction of roads, highways, reconstruction of roads where resources are needed, etc. As Government for six months now, if not for a little while longer, we are working on establishing an address register, so that not all of us, all Serbian citizens, have six addresses, so one address in the ID card, the other in passport, on the third you live, on the fifth comes the post office, etc. We're comparing the data. Can you believe that... I'm asking the really people's MPs here for attention, because it's really a very important thing that shows the level that we've come to as a country, disorientation. So, we have today in Serbia, 2017, at the end of 2017, 3,028.020 citizens have registered their residence in the streets without a certain home number, that is the BB, and of which 2,676,898 citizens are registered at addresses for which there is no street name. Can you believe where we've come from? You say, "Why haven't you solved it already?" Well, because you had to solve it, for three years you had to solve it because the country came three months from bankruptcy, so you had to save the country. We have not been on any European list in healthcare until 2012. We did not meet the criteria for being on the European list until 2012. So deal with it. Then in the first hundred days of the government's health care, we approved over 1200 new jobs for nurses and doctors only. So, just for medical staff 870 specializations and pleasure specializations. You had ten years before the specials were banned. You had five generations of health care in Serbia that were threatened, led to extinction. In the last three years, we have approved the employment of 7.024 medical workers, and by the end of the year there are still 1,777 more. So there's a total of 8,801 doctors and nurses or healthcare technicians to make some qualitative shift forwards. Irrigation, we talked about irrigation. Three percent at this time of land in Serbia are in irrigation. We're working for an extra 50,000 acres now, and that'll get us to 8%. So, I understand frustration, but I think we all need to understand together just what the government has been facing for the past three years and what we face every day. We're working as fast as we can and we'll get to where you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23586	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23587	So, I understand and, as I said, I welcome all the energy that is being invested. However, what has moved me further is actually an indication of the events, or the 2010 promise of... If you can give me my time, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23588	Please make your comment. Ambassador, don't pay attention to MPs who won't listen to you, ask questions and answer questions. Sign up, please, again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23589	What my suggestion is is that when we have a problem with the Turkish loan, as we heard, we don't lose seven years of negotiating with the Turks about the loan, the state should have a B spare variant. So that's my suggestion, because if we're going to go seven more years after a new Turkish visit, I'm afraid that's not good. So let's have B and C, so let's keep going. I'm sorry, I'm sorry you're ignoring the kidnapping issues in Strpts and the North, because it's not good for Serbia to tabulate any issue in this country. It's about citizens of this country who were killed at a time when this country was not officially at war. I simply have a problem, both ethically and legally and politically, to promote reconciliation policy if we do not have clear answers on this matter. For my people, the Bosniak community, the Bosniak people in Sandzak and for this country and the whole society, to heal all our frustrations and wounds, it is good to look into our eyes and say what we think and to come together to treat these wounds and solve these problems. We have a problem that these families have no damages, that these victims are not recognized as civilian war victims, you know the situation in courts as it is and how it is possible to treat serious cases administratively in such a way that it leaves a very unpleasant taste and unpleasant message for families, but also for the citizens of that area, or the people of the victims. So I ask you not to ignore this question, to look it in his eyes together. It's not a political issue, especially I don't want to make any rhetorical-political story out of it, but to look at this issue together and do what's possible, but believe it's possible if we want to do it together.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23590	Thank you. Now the question is asked by MP Jovan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23591	Thank you. Dear Prime Ministers, respected ministers, as representative of the Club of Independent MPs who form the Civil Platform and the New Party, I would first of all ask the Prime Minister to answer the questions asked and that the representatives of the Government give the other colleagues a chance to ask questions and get answers from them. Today, a visit to and a sharp protest of pensioners was held outside this building, and we MPs have an obligation to the citizens to convey their concerns, demands and questions. Therefore, I will remind myself that the day after tomorrow it will be completed three years after it has entered into force a law that reduces pensions, whose importance is just the coming days. This law not only violated pensioners' rights, but equally important, their dignity was violated. In this regard, I ask the question – will pensions be returned in full, rather than using strange mathematics, which shows smaller amounts as higher? Since the protest of pensioners was attended by representatives of the Property Recovery League, I ask the question – when will the addition of the Restitution Act, especially agricultural land, i.e. the substitution? This is a problem for a large number of citizens, and without legal certainty, i.e. clear property relations, not even the desired natural progress is possible. Natural progress is also not possible without discharging the economy, i.e. the release of potential primarily small and medium-sized enterprises. I therefore ask the question – will the newly founded enterprises be exempt from tax and contribution in the first 12 months, and will there be a general reduction in labour tax, as announced by Minister Vujovic? Today, journalists from the "For Freedom of the Media" group were also in front of the assembly, who handed MPs questions to the Prime Minister. They did it because the president refused to meet them. That's why I'm asking her -- does she intend to change her attitude and still meet with media representatives and talk to them about the alarming state in this area? This problem has special significance, given the strategic goal of EU membership, which the Prime Minister himself pointed out at the beginning of her exposé. The question is therefore raised – is there a sincere intention to achieve this goal, when both the prime minister and the minister of European integration, despite very negative media scores contained in the European institutions' reports deny the existence of this problem and demean journalists in Serbia? So the Prime Minister, in Brussels, recently said that the real problem is that there are almost no objective journalists in Serbia, and the Minister of European Integration does not know what freedom of the media means and that most media has become semi-tabloid and tabloid, which gave the best assessment of the work, i.e. the government's lack of work in this area. So I ask the question – will they, instead of denying the existence of this great problem, finally begin to address the most important obstacles to achieving this strategic goal? Finally, Serbia's president said on Monday that in a day or two the dynamics of the internal dialogue on Kosovo will be known. Since it has been three days since then, I would ask the Prime Minister to present not only this dynamic, but, above all, the structure in which this dialogue will take place. Given the latest developments, I am primarily referring to the integration of Serbian judges into Kosovo's legal system, as well as the international commitments taken, I don't see if there's anything to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23592	Time. Thank you. Here you go. There's an Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23593	Thank you very much. There's a lot of questions. I'm sorry if I'm gonna delay a little bit, but there are a lot of questions and they're relevant. I'll try to answer all of them. The first question is about pensions. As far as pensions go, I'd say two things start. The first thing, I'm going back to what, three years ago, Serbia was three months away from bankruptcy. Neither the government nor the opposition nor the media nor anyone else in Serbia, the World Bank said. She warned that we were three months away from bankruptcy. It was necessary, and I'm going back to it, even though we've been talking about it for three years, to bring in unpopular but absolutely necessary fiscal consolidation measures. Unfortunately, pensions had to be included in some of these measures. Why? That's the real question. Why did they have to be covered by pensions? So, I don't know how many respected MPs know and how familiar Serbian citizens are with this problem, when there was a break-in, a complete break-in of the Republic of Serbia's budget that led us to bankruptcy. In 2008, I'm only talking about pensions, so please listen to me, because it's important and because you ask me 50 times, it's okay a hundred times, but listen to me when you ask me. So, in 2008, pensions increased four times over one year -- twice on a regular basis, it was April 2008, when pensions increased 7%, October 2008 when additional 4% were increased, and outstandingly twice the pensions and in 2008, once in February 11% and once in October 10%. When we talked about the political increase in pensions and how they were trying to buy out pensions, when one year you increase pensions four times, people, four times, four percent, 11%, 10%, well, then you get to three months before bankruptcy. Then someone who is politically responsible enough has to come and do a fiscal consolidation within which only the largest pensions, only the largest, therefore, have not touched the pensions of 25,000 dinars and below, are subtracted one part, which is thus completely unfounded and completely against the law. Now how about against the law? Well, against the law because it was called for by law that pensions couldn't fall below 60% of the average salary. But when the bill is an average salary, I think this is relevant to understand what it is and not to talk more about political flossules about how someone took pensions because they're arrogant or something, so I think it's important that the MPs, first of all the MPs, understand this problem. Legally speaking, pensions cannot fall below 60% of the average salary, but when we calculated the average salary, the citizens of Serbia, when the average salary is calculated in the average salary account, are not employed by entrepreneurs. They were expelled from the account by entrepreneurs to make the average salary look higher and then have a political justification to increase pensions 11% more and 10% more before the elections. Then someone re-introduces order and then we have a problem. Fortunately, it has been introduced in the past three years thanks to these very unpopular, politically largely courageous and responsible decisions, that we today have growth based on production, investment and export. On these health grounds, we managed to raise pensions for the previous two years, though little, but how much fiscal space, by 1.75, by 5% and 5% this year, and every year, a one-time increase in pensions. So we'd finally have bigger ones at least pensions. So today, when we increase 5% of pensions from January 1st, which is really important for the world's most developed countries you will have, 90% of pensioners in Serbia will have more pensions than in 2014 before the fiscal consolidation measure. They won't have those with the biggest pensions, but we will slowly cross that law in 2018 and then release it. It is now done on sound grounds and that is what is very important. The increase in pensions and fiscal consolidation measures is certainly what this government of the Republic of Serbia is proud of most in the first 100 days of the government. As far as taxes are concerned, I am also particularly pleased to say that in the first 100 days of the government's work we have succeeded in the negotiations, as part of the socio-economic council, to raise the minimum labour price by as much as 10% this year, from 130 to 143 dinars, particularly important for 350,000 people in Serbia who receive a minimum. So, a very important measure. Then we talked to employers who agreed to talk about it being budgetaryly neutral for Serbia. So let's see if we can increase the non-taxable part of the profit to make it practically easier for employers, and that's what we're thinking about right now, as well as reducing gross two income taxes to make it a little bit easier for us to allocate the resources we have for the National Employment Service, and to make it easier for employers. Everything else, we are thinking about it and we are doing analysis, but we are serious about not jeopardizing everything that we have achieved with such severe torment together with the citizens of Serbia over the past three years. As far as the media is concerned, I find it a very interesting formula for me to refuse to meet with media representatives and media associations. I didn't refuse to meet them. I'm gonna meet them, I haven't had time in the last ten days, but it seems to me that it's okay, that I haven't met in ten days when we've been doing some other things, but I'm gonna schedule that meeting. That it is true to testify and that I received a call, let's say, from one of the local media representatives "Valjevo Plus", that's the man who told me he was having problems because he was critical of the authorities and I invited him and I have a meeting with him tomorrow to see exactly what kind of problems a man has. So, I'm meeting with all the media that I'm supposed to meet, hearing all the problems I need to hear, and I think that's very important. As for the whole media freedom issue, we talk a lot about it. Again, I have heard countless times that the media situation has never been worse in Serbia before. Today is the worst situation in Serbia as far as the media scene is concerned. Now, I hear that from day to day and also criticises my account because at a discussion in Brussels, I said, not that there are no objective media but that there are very few objective media. Criticisms everywhere, as I offended all media in Serbia, as I offended all Serbian citizens... (Marinika Tepic: Yes, it is true. Is it true? Great, thank you, People's MPs, if that's true. Now I'm going to tell you that these aren't just my personal impressions. So the situation in the media as well as the situation in any other segment of society I told you about at the beginning is now inherited and catastrophic. What did the first government do in Alexander Vukic's term? So, she adopted, it is the first government to adopt a set of media laws to improve the image of the media in Serbia. (Radoslav Milojic: You have limited time to answer. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23594	Here, I'm running a session, just keep going, it's provocation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23595	Thank you. These are four very important questions. The MPs are asking questions, I want to answer them as Prime Minister. Don't ask questions if you don't want to hear the answers. Thank you. So in 2014, then Prime Minister Alexander Vukic's government adopted a set of media laws to fix the media situation in Serbia. It's the first government to do it. To remind me of this, the withdrawal of the state from the media and the adjustment of media and the survival of media in the market is something the Serbian government adopted because for years, media associations and media associations have advocated. It is those media associations and media associations that today say the state should not withdraw from the media but should help the media. So it came out then in 2014 to meet the media. Now let's go back to that I insulted all Serbian citizens as the MP said when I said there were very few objective media in Serbia. But to remind the 2011 Anti-Corruption Council, he was still led by the late Verica Barac, one of the great anti-corruption fighters you will now say, where the MP agreed to insult all Serbian citizens with the report. So in 2011, during the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, the Anti-Corruption Council and Verica Barac report on media that says... (Marinika Tepic: It is not a question. ) The government of Mirko Cvetkovic was given strong political pressure and full control over the media. Verica Barac and the Anti-Corruption Council say there are no more media from which citizens can get complete and objective information. So, they said there are no objective media, not that there are few like I said, but I insulted all Serbian citizens, and Verica Barac and the Anti-Corruption Council didn't, or at least I didn't hear you at the time. So, in 2011, there are no media for citizens from which citizens can get full and objective information because under the strong pressure that comes from political circles, the media is silenced or reported selectively and incompletely. On 19 January 2011, the European Parliament adopted a resolution expressing concern over the government's attempts to control the work of the media. They voice concern over media control and media interference, over controversy over the privatisation of Evening News, about attacks and threats to Serbian journalists, as well as lack of internet access, the internet of Serbian citizens. And now you're saying that digitisation is funny, at least we're allowing all citizens of Serbia to access the Internet, which is necessary for the freedom of the media. The Assembly of the European Federation of Journalists in 2011 pointed out that journalists in Serbia, please, were humiliated, humiliated, silenced and scared. And I understand that it's hard for you to listen to this, but this is a situation in the media that the previous government and I'm trying to solve. Next... (Maya Vidinovic: Which member of the Rules of Procedure does this session run?) )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23596	Please excuse me. I apologize to the president. Show elemental decency at this session. Whoever wants to hear the answers, let them listen, who doesn't want to have any others, please show your elemental decency to the Prime Minister, who is trying to answer your questions. And the MP who asked the question listens carefully, and don't, please, show an ugly picture of you and Parliament. (Radoslav Milojic: three minutes. ) Please, by the way, I read for the ignorant MPs that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. For those who haven't figured it out yet. When I look in your direction, I don't see you in the future because of this kind of behavior. (Maya Vidinović: Shame on you. ) Please, elementary courtesy only.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23597	To continue with the freedom of the media, a terrible, very, very important topic and please let me finish and tell you what we're facing. Thank you. So, I am proud to be Prime Minister and to be Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government in the Government of Alexander Vukic, who is always, therefore, who is always... (Bosko Obradovic: Ua, ua. )......................................................................................................... Always calling for all events all media representatives without exception. Whether they're critical of the government or not, they've always answered all the questions of all the media, and that's how they'll continue. I'm proud of it. On the other hand, in 2003, we had a Prime Minister who openly insulted journalists and called them marginal phenomena. When journalists left all the press conferences together, because the Prime Minister calls them marginal phenomena. But today, it's never been a worse situation in the media. We had a mayor at the time who kicked the press, kicked, called the man into an open program and simply insulted the journalist and became a minister in the government a few months later. But it's never been a worse situation in the media than today. Not to go into such a distant past, in November 2014, we had the fallout of some of the opposition MPs at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Information, when the opposition MP presented a series of insults to the journalistic profession, insulted some of the editors present, said journalists could be bought for 300 euros, that they were scum and that they were evil. So it's 2014. A little over a month ago, both the UNS and NUNS criticised one of the opposition leaders for inappropriate and unacceptable behaviour towards journalists and the media, because in the Serbian Parliament, here at the National House, he insulted journalists "Politicals", "Tanjuga", "Foneta" and "Bete". To remind you, too, that one of the leaders of the opposition is completely openly sharing journalists with similar and inadequate ones and choosing whom he wants to answer questions and who he will not answer to, but the government has never been worse to the media. (Bosko Obradovic: That's right. () After kicking, after calling the scum, after calling journalists marginal phenomena, after a report by the Anti-Corruption Council that the media has been trampled, repeated, impoverished and humiliated, silenced and frightened. That's the kind of media scene we inherited. In 2014 they adopted the Media Act, on strict requirements of media associations and associations, and should not today be such a media image. Gentlemen, we are trying to do all the things at the same time, and to fix health care and get the country out of bankruptcy and transfer the parent books into electronic form and give people addresses and pay a billion and five hundred million dinars because the previous government has made an unconstitutional judicial reform. That's all we're trying to do. That is why, finally, let me explain to you a media image like this in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23598	The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic. (Alexandra Jerkov: What does this look like? )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23599	I thank you, I do not know why the Members of Parliament are rebelling, I am really mentioned, yes, I mentioned in the context of a statement that I have made about freedom of the media, such as Mr. Ambassador Jovanovic, if I am not mistaken, I have sent a written inquiry to my ministry and myself personally and I have prepared an answer, I do not know if you have received it, so I am taking the floor with full right. You were primarily interested in my statement, which I said, and you misread me. And I certainly didn't say that I don't know what freedom of the media is, but I said that freedom of the media is the way many political ones are interpreted, and unfortunately those who should be, I apologize if I can continue... (National MP Djordje Vukadinovic approaches the chair of the chairman. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23600	I ask you MPs not to approach the table during the Minister's reply. Please, it's all in the Rules of Procedure, don't pretend you don't know. This is a picture of the opposition about our parliament. I'm embarrassed. (Bosko Obradovic: When will we come to the turn? ) Don't do this. Don't when you get an answer to a question you don't like, yell and make a mess in parliament. You will come to order, a little courtesy, a little peace, and you will come to your turn. You've always come in line. (Bosko Obradovic: Let's just see if we're up to it. You just want to ask questions and everyone else to keep quiet. We'll make a deal next time, some other time. If you can, if you don't...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23601	I can, and if the MPs aren't interested in hearing the answers about freedom of the media...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23602	Well, they're not interested in MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23603	Then it speaks enough about sincere interest or really one, as I have already said, superficial abuse of the issue of freedom of the media which is an important topic, not only in the process of European integration. It should not only relate to the process of European integration, but to what is professionalism of journalists and ethics and to all those who work in journalism. That is why I would like to inform you that we have unfortunately experienced obstruction in the working group of a part of the press association, which declares themselves independent associations, which, based on their actions, I can conclude that there are different political and economic interests that do not have much to do with professionalisation. You know, the issue of the media strategy should answer the first and most important, the definition of journalists, the definition of investigative journalism, that we don't get into a situation, maybe some of you won't agree with me, but that's why it's important that the representatives of media associations participate and protect their interests, their professions. So, not to be bloggers and Twitterers tomorrow put into the context of a journalistic profession, and that can happen. I personally don't think that's right, but of course, I don't decide either of you do, but that's exactly why we need to talk to the press associations. Research journalism. Is this journalism just journalism that deals, and of course it should deal with the corruption of all public officials, but investigative journalism also means social and social responsible journalism that drives topics that are in one society taboo topic. So it's not just about us, it's about concepts and perceptions and interpretations of investigative journalism. Next, what does it mean if you're only free to criticize the government? It's okay. Government criticism is not controversial anywhere, but tell me, since you know good European practice, let one of you tell me, when you read a certain newspaper, I won't name countries, but you know what newspaper I mean, you know well that you read the media that's close to the government, and that's nothing controversial, like when you read another newspaper, you know that it's close to a certain opposition group or party. It's so absolute. You probably haven't seen much from the practices of European countries, I think there are some unfounded expectations, which I think I would deny reality if we looked at the practice of European countries. Therefore, the situation in Serbia is not worst, but much better than many in the region, and I will not be in a diplomatic position to say which countries I mean, and perhaps even from some EU members. But, of course, we're like the country candidate floor, simply, with a bigger glass and a stronger glass, and that's fine. So please, if you have an impact on these independent media associations, invite them to participate in the task force, since some of them I could say what non-professionals are and how they relate to various other groups that do not involve the identity of their views. Just one more very important thing, a very, very important thing, and that is that, gentlemen, so don't, you're for freedom of communication and an opinion, and now you can't hear the answer. What's the problem with the media freedom response? Well, you don't think... All right, one more thing. There is a memorandum of measures to increase the safety of journalists. Unfortunately, I have to say, there's the D.A.'s office, the M.O.P., and, of course, the press associations. Many of the press associations do not want at all, or I would say, abuse this process because they do not include their knowledge, i.e. databases, alleged attacks on their members, and that's where you intervene with independent news associations, because it would be good because of their professional ethics. As for the European Parliament, for the first time this year, the definition is not a lack of freedom of the media, but a necessity, to say and improve the culture of professionalism to the media in Serbia, which is a different difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23604	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23605	Dear President, Mr. Jovanovic, I hope I may answer the question, since I have received the question referred to me, do you allow it? I try to give answers to Mr. Jovanovic's question, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure which has been existing for six, seven years, I try to give answers to the question of Mr. Jovanovic, as much as it is in my power, I give answers concerning the restoration of agricultural land. I thank you for your opportunity to answer this question. So far, we have 92 thousand hectares for which a request has been made to the Agency for the Restitution of Agricultural Land Restitution. We've got over 500 thousand acres of land in the US Corps. So there's enough agricultural land to make a full restitution. Restitution is an extremely sensitive issue, especially after a long period of time that passes from the moment of origin to the moment of vomiting, in most cases it is a time period of more than 60, 70 years. So we are facing the extremely large challenges that have arisen as a result of land accumulation, the co-operations that were, and also the result of the common property that exists on a huge amount of agricultural land. I have to point out one thing, very good communication and co-operation with the Restitution Network and with all the solutions and all the activities that the Ministry of Agriculture has taken, especially undermining one thing, giving agricultural land to rent for 30 years. We were absolutely in constant communication with the Restitution Network, absolutely transparent, everything they put in our mouth a year ago that we wouldn't be transparent, absolutely by procedure we did. There was a public call, all the actors were involved and absolutely no problem. All the land that was given under the law of the 30-year championship was not taken the land that was subject to restitution. So far, around 20% of the agricultural land for which restitution applications have been filed has been returned. It is expected to be 50% by April or May next year. The largest amount of this land is located in the area of Vojvodina. Most of the land was returned to the area of Backa Topola, Kickinda, Vienna and the Serb dam. The challenges that stand before us and why it is necessary and to intervene under the law, we are preparing a regulation to define objects. What are these facilities on land on which no return can be made, but compensation will be made? We have a problem with the irrigation systems that have been developed. Once again, I will return to the matter of common property on agricultural land. These are property-legal relations that are extremely complicated and difficult. We're working on it. We will make our full contribution, as Ministry of Agriculture to the Agency for Restitution, to resolve this problem in full coordination with the restitution network. This process is painful, it takes a long time, but during the government, the government that was elected in 2012, 2014, 2016 and now, is doing its best to return the agricultural land, to remove a historical injustice, but we must be careful, sensitive, because we cannot make a new injustice on the injustice that has been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23606	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jovan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23607	Thank you. I would just like to point out that, unfortunately, we are attending a simulation of parliamentary issues, and I regret to say that the Prime Minister has accepted the manners of her predecessor and is leading long monologues without giving concrete answers to most of the questions. I will remind the Prime Minister that this government, this ruling coalition, has been in power for more than five years, so calling for the past is not really appropriate. What I was about to say is, this very monologue also shows that this call to internal dialogue is not sincere, and I haven't heard the answer to that question. How is it imagined that this internal dialogue is taking place? That is why I think it would be much more desirable to open a genuine and comprehensive dialogue on the future of the state, mostly in this House, because as a few days ago, one of the business leaders said -- the right criterion of success is not even the economic growth, which is, however, the lowest in this part of Europe, nor the reduction of public debt, but the desire of citizens to stay in the country, and this desire is the lowest of the 1990s, which is best witnessed by the fact that we are at the world summit on the outflow of professional staff. That is why a sincere dialogue is needed on how we can all contribute together to the removal of the cause of this devastating phenomenon. So again, I ask you to give my colleagues a chance to ask a question and give your answers shorter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23608	Thank you very much. First of all, I'd like to thank you, truly, honestly, and warmly for your compliment. If I become more and more my predecessor, today's president, you want to tell me that I work very hard and that I always tell the truth. So, thank you very much. If you want to transfer to me or the previous government that you've been in power for a long time and why this hasn't been done, I was just trying to explain to you at the beginning what was done and what was done first. What do you do first? Here, I ask the citizens of Serbia when you come. I told everyone, there are three pillars of reform in Serbia, three pillars on which every modern normal society, a healthy economy, public administration, dynamic, efficient, transparent and rule of law rests. Three pillars. All three pillars, stepped on your knees, then you lift one by one. What did we do? Well, we've raised the economy, and we've achieved results, we've improved business conditions, investors will come and our small and medium-sized enterprises will develop and achieve results. I'll remind you that we are currently in the World Bank's 47th place on the "Ding Business" list. We're waiting for a new report next week. We hope to move forward, but we have been making progress since 2014. I will also remind you that in 2008, we were 86, so we fell to 94th place when the Government of the Republic of Serbia was founded the National Competitiveness Council. He worked so well that we fell from 86 to 94th place in one year. Today we're 47. The best score was in 2007, we were 68. I've been trying to explain what we've been doing for the last three or four years. I'm trying to explain what we found and what we're fighting with. That's what I'm trying to do. Last night, the World Bank declared Serbia the best Southeast European country under the criteria of implemented reforms. Ten days ago, the World Economic Forum announced that Serbia has progressed 12 places on the global competitiveness list. That's what we did. That's what we've been doing. Not to talk about what we've been doing since we have a growth in foreign trade of over 13% today. Exports increased by more than 13%, newly employed by 5.5%, and we expect foreign direct investments to rise by around 13% by the end of this year. So we've been working on the first pillar and we've done it and now we're moving on to the next pillar. We've launched a public administration reform. By 2013, no one had thought to build a mechanism to count civil servants. That wasn't relevant. It didn't matter at all. You didn't have standards in local self-government until 2013 by which you know how many optimally employed local self-governments. We've had it since 2014. That's what we've been doing, honourable MPs, when you ask me what you've been doing for all this time of power. That's what we've been doing. There were employees in local self-government twice as many, three times as many, so much so that today we're still reducing them and going gradually. The plan is to bring everything to an optimum by 2020. There were so many of them. Not to mention my favorite Smederian Palanca, who is a champion of his own in various negative indicators. Health care until 2012, I said, it wasn't on the European lists. We couldn't meet the criteria to be the last in Europe. That's what we've been doing. I don't mind talking any further about what we've been doing and what we're gonna do. That's right, at least it's done in the field of judicial reform, that we have an effective judiciary, but, my people, we need to build roads, so we need to prevent bankruptcy, so we need to make business conditions, so we need to reform public administration. Well, when do we get there? Here we go. As far as media freedom is concerned, that's what I've explained to you. It's the same legacy, and it was worse twice back then than it was today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23609	Thank you for answering questions under really impossible conditions. The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic. Here you go. (Radoslav Milojic: Replica. I mean, I'm... I'm... I'm... ) MP, article 216, which I read at the beginning of the session, but you probably didn't listen.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23610	Thank you. President-in-Office, a respected prime minister, respected ministers, I will first ask the President of Parliament to respect Article 214 which states that if the time of exposure is limited...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23611	Dear MPs, I ask you all together to allow the MPs to ask questions, and the Prime Ministers and ministers to answer. (Radoslav Milojic: give him back his time.) I'll give you your time back. Nothing heard what you said. Please sign in one more time so I can give you your time. Just don't yell. (Alexandra Jerkov: Only you respect the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23612	Thank you. President-in-Office, Prime Minister, Government ministers, honourable fellow MPs, I would first point to Article 214 in which we are asking a question for three minutes, and ministers are responding within five minutes. If there's a rule for MPs...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23613	There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure in this part of the session. I read it. No one's listening. Do you want to ask a question?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23614	I'm asking a question, of course, but just to be the same arches.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23615	I ask Alexander Jerkov not to show his nature in this part of the session. (Alexandra Jerkov: I ask you to hold a session according to the Rules of Procedure. Don't throw it away, it's not nice. (Maya Vidinovic: Do not violate the Rules of Procedure. ) Please, at least allow your MP to ask a question. (Alexandra Jerkov: All MPs earn. ( b) Ambassador Jerkov, please refrain from dropping a messenger. (Radoslav Milojičić: You are breaking the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23616	Here, after almost four months, we have ministers ahead of us to answer questions, and I hope that this practice will be more common in the next period, not to repeat what Aleksandar Vukic did, that after three years only four times he entered parliament before MPs and thus showed how much he respected the Assembly and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so I am asking questions primarily about the economy. As the prime minister said, they raised the economy in the previous period and that Serbia is the best country in Southeast Europe after reforms. At the same time, I ask the question – why is Serbia a country with the lowest GDP growth in Europe with 1.2%, while all Europe's countries today have 4.2%? Why is Serbia's lowest growth in the region in the period from 2014 to 2016? So 1.66% is GDP growth in Serbia in those three years, while in Croatia 4.1%, Bosnia 6.7%, Montenegro 7%, Albania 8%, Macedonia 10%, is 9%. That's the result of how the economy was raised. The result is the lowest average salary in the region. Why are Serbia's lowest average wages in the region? Why is Serbia's lowest minimum profit to its employees compared to these others? Answer these questions first, then talk about statistics and what you would like to see happening in Serbia. The result of such economic policy is 550,000 absolutely poor and one million and 800 at the poverty line, which is the responsibility of the Continuity Government, although in three or four different stages. You've been ruling for six years. The result of the economy is also in reform, which today in Serbia has 30% more private firms blocked than last year. Private companies in Serbia have been blocked for two and a half billion euros. Today, your government owes 33 billion VAT returns to private entrepreneurs who are obliged to return it within the time limit. You don't return it so you can show the deficit, like you took pensioners, like you took employees' salaries and so you represent surpluses in the budget on the back of citizens and on the back of the economy. This is the result of the reform and this is the result of your economic policy. That 33 billion was 10 in 2015, and today, 33 and so much are you worried about domestic...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23617	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23618	Please allow me some more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23619	Yeah, yeah, I did. As you can see, three minutes and 35 seconds. The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23620	Thank you. Let me tell you first, one of my predecessors, Mr. Cvetkovic was never in the government to answer the questions of the MPs, but that doesn't matter. That was democratic, that was great, that was great. In parliament, and in government too, it was rare, it was all phone sessions. Thank you, MP, for reminding me that the Prime Minister has rarely been in the government and that all sessions have been telephoned, and he has never been in the Assembly. He's been in government rarely. He's never been here before. Let me just tell you, for an honest MP, who, of course, will be very pleased to answer questions about the growth of the gross social product, the VAT, the non-return of VAT and everything else, too, to say that the honourable MP, the president of the municipality in his term in seven years, could not have transferred the parent books into electronic form. But this power can't run the state, and in the municipality of Trstenik we couldn't transfer the parent books into electronic form in seven years, so that one, a citizen of Trstenik who, for example, was able to get a copy of the birth certificate here, not send it from Triestenik. Also, let me tell you that Triestenik municipality, which had one of the biggest employees of 654, December 2013, is an optimum of 444 employees. Take it easy. But this government can't run the country. As far as GDP is concerned, yes, the government is certainly upset about the GDP growth rate... Can I answer that? I'm sorry you ask me, and when you don't like the answer, you won't listen to him. Well, we're like a kindergarten. So last year GDP growth was 2.8%. Before that, since 2000, there was only a higher growth in some 2008 when we had 3.1% and this growth was entirely based on consumption and imports. This growth is at least based on exports and production, and that's what the IMF says. So everything I'm telling you here, I'm telling you internationally checked and you admit the data and I'm not talking about what I'd like Serbia to be. I would like Serbia to be much, much, much better, and that's why I'm here, and that's why we're all here, it's just that it's hard after everything that's been left behind. At this point, the biggest blow to our GDP growth this year has been caused by drought this summer. That's no excuse. A serious government and a serious state must no longer be in a position to say - we do not have sufficient GDP growth because we have drought. But, gentlemen, we've had and at this point we have 3% working surfaces under the irrigation system, 3%. Now we're going to have another 50,000, so something between 7% and 8%, and that's one of the focus for 2018 and 2019. But, guys, we can't do it all at once. And if it wasn't for the drought that hit us so that the production of corn compared to last year will be less than 45.5%, wheat by 21%, soybean 20%, sunflower 13%, sugar tail 6.3%, if we hadn't had a blow in the power sector because of hydropower plants and winters because of thermal power plants, all other indicators are such that we would have had a growth of 3%. At the same time, all other indicators show a healthy economy, a dynamic emerging economy. That's what the IMF said, that's what the Fiscal Council said. So that's true. It's a good thing we have 13% export growth and we have a growth in direct investment of about 13%, which is that we finally have unemployment at some level of 11% - 12%. That's better than ever in Serbia's history. And we have to do better. But, MP, this is the answer to my question. Why didn't we build irrigation systems? Why didn't we make them? Because we had a fiscal consolidation to get out of the bankruptcy you left behind. That's right. But why didn't you? Well, they spent all their money. All the money's been spent. Where are the roads? Where are the irrigation systems? Where's everything? So, 35 years in Serbia, no irrigation systems have been built, 35 years. (The National MP Marinika Tepic throws out of place. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23621	I'm asking Commissioner Marinika Tepic not to throw the Prime Minister away, and not to yell. We're not at the football stadium. I ask Marinika Tepic to refrain from shouting, if he can. If he can't, what can we do?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23622	This is democracy in your performance. As for VAT returns, maybe you didn't know, I'll let you know, that's okay, that there was a full VAT mafia in Serbia and that we stopped and ordered, or the previous government has a strict control of VAT vomiting, so that money from the budget doesn't spill for nothing, and anyone who needs to be returned to VAT, with some delay, due to double and triple controls. You're telling me today that we're showing a surplus by being late for VAT vomit. That's true. Well, do you know that today we have a surplus in our budget of 80 billion, and we have 33 billion in VAT vomit? So how does 33 equal 80? Why do you say such things in front of Serbian citizens? That's terrible and inadmissible. So when we get the VAT back, let's get it back in the morning, and then we've got 50 billion in surplus again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23623	Thank you. The word has Minister Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23624	Thank you. I see that there is, and I understand now why there is, a deep misunderstanding with one of the opposition colleagues, because they expect government members to come here and respond to the words that have been given to us, to put together here a list of what we need to answer when someone asks us, not to answer what we want. They can ask any questions they want, get during the session, get out of the bench, have dialogue with the Prime Minister and members of the government, but I was also the speaker of this parliament, MPs also have to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on how to behave in the National Assembly. I understand, it's not easy for Mrs. Gojkovic to sort it all out at this time and realize how difficult this job is. However, what are the essential indicators for one country? I want to tell you what a good indicator is for this country whether the country is making progress or not. Unemployment rate. Do you know why today is not so much about the unemployment rate in the National Assembly, because when some others were in power, that rate was only in 2012, when we found the country in a catastrophic state, almost 26%. That was the unemployment rate. Today is 11.8%. Now, because of that, as one good economic indicator, because we're talking about reforms here, we're talking about this government creating a fiscal space without selling property. That's basically a big difference. When you create space based on the power of your economy, based on the power of investments, based on the strength of people to be employed, so they have salaries, so they have something to bring home to, unlike zero, how many they had when some others were in power, zero dinars were their salaries, a large number of these people, that we're not talking about 400,000 workers who were out of their jobs from 2008 to 2012. How can we not remember those times? How can we not remind ourselves of those times, when it was the root, when it was situations where people were left out of jobs. It was measured by the clock. They were counters where you measured how many jobs each hour were lost. We now measure how many jobs are made in Serbia every hour, and that is the fundamental difference. They were never interested in an ordinary man. Most of these people who were ministers, who were key managers, those who cheered and dressed in Serbia, were interested in tycoons. At that time, the tycoons in Serbia were top-notch. They really enjoyed Serbia, enjoyed the acquisition of huge assets, above all I think of Miskovic. This country was once called "Deltalend". So that's what they called Serbia. So much man could have done what he wanted. He set up, his governments formed in his cabinet. So, in his office, governments were formed, not to say everyone else. There's a key investor here. This is where investments were measured by people who were drug dealers. This is where the GDP came in. It says -- GDP growth, Saric's investments in drug dealers. There are many examples here, but there was one example here that I wanted to read to you, what successful reforms were being carried out and why we came to this. Unfortunately, I'm sorry to mention this example, because it hurts every man in this country, but we need to remind ourselves what kind of people have managed and what's going on, and that's the situation with the adaptation of the Heterland Castle. It was meant to be home... (Bosko Obradovic: Time. ) You see, how quickly, when to tell the truth, it hurts, because they know how much this has done damage to the citizens of Serbia. When you need to get... (Bosko Obradovic: Is it Dacic?) )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23625	I ask the MP, Bosko Obradovica, not to act like he's on the street.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23626	... reformes, when it comes to innovating a home for children distracted by development, then money is taken from Serbian citizens, a million euros are taken from Serbian citizens and there is no more money or at home. Children have nowhere to go, no one to be interested, and they're holding onto the tarpaulins -- let's get some funds for some kids, help sick kids, so there's a million euros here from children distracted in development and they've taken and put it in their pockets. That's why criminal charges have been filed, which is why the trial is under way, which is why the court in this country is deciding. As angry as I am, angry, as hard as this is for me to see, this is where the court decides. These were reforms that led to 26% of the unemployed, that no one in Serbia understood whether there was a future in this country. Today, people have a future, today people in Serbia are normal and decent people who want to work, and that's why they get hired, that's why they open factories, so now foreigners recognize Serbia, unlike those times, as a place where there is economic and political stability, where they can bring their money, open factories, and that Serbian citizens have some of it. That's how the government of Alexander Vukic did it, and that's how this government keeps doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23627	The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Aleksic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23628	Madam Prime Minister, I know that you are inclined to manipulate and replace thesis, as was your predecessor, but I ask you not to ask me, but to answer my questions. You came here today to answer the questions of the MPs. That's the first thing. The other thing is, don't tell the truth. You said the GDP was bigger than it was now in 2007. Let me introduce you, since you obviously don't know. From 2000 to 2009, total GDP growth is 47.37% based on IMF and Statistical Office data, four, nine, seven, four, two, nine, five, etc. That's the first thing. Next, when will you start obeying the laws that you adopt? I mean the Law on Public Enterprises, on the professionalization of public enterprises. In 2016 you adopted the Law on Public Enterprises and said you would choose officials by competition. Today, only a few dozen directors of 346, if I am not mistaken, who should be, by your law that you have adopted, placed in those places. Of course, you don't do it because you need institutional corruption and that you can set anyone up as V.D. at the directoral posts of the largest systems, as you have appointed the owner of the roaster as director of the largest public company EPS, as you have in the Roads of the Director who is now sentenced to prison. You don't mind, just respecting what the SNS rules are that privatized the state. Furthermore, when you talk about the media, you said here for a moment that there was no objective media, that the state had withdrawn from the media. That's not true. You've withdrawn from the ownership structure, but that's why you control all the financial media in Serbia, and you know it very well, through these same public enterprises, institutions... We're not small, we know, and you can see exactly which public enterprise is advertised in which media, except those media that are objective, and you say the objective ones aren't there, they're not on your payroll. On your payroll are those who are in your service and who are there to manipulate the truth and that Serbian citizens lie about some growth, better life, the wages you promised back three, four, five years, etc. Therefore, the question – when will the government start respecting the laws it adopts? When will he start respecting media law? Does the law and that set of media laws that you mentioned not apply to private television owners, since those who were close to the regime and bought dozens of TVs in Serbia, you know that very well? Does it not apply to them? They are now the Information Service of the Government and your party. As far as I know, if the law is respected, it can't and can't be. Furthermore, answer my question, Minister Stefanovic, after you answered, I did not ask you anything – who is responsible for the collapse in Savamala, until it arrived with the investigation, who suspended the state a year and a half ago?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23629	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23630	As far as the media is concerned, that's what you mixed us up with Gilas. That's how it was then. Nineteen billion dinars since man was in power, 19 billion dinars of company traffic, good for you. It's hard to break. I don't know if the first five firms in Serbia can be measured with that. Company, RTS, seconds, full control. So control 100%. That was really hard to accomplish. What's the other thing, I'm just asking people to learn, investigate the prosecution. The police don't run an investigation, it's the DA's office, and they can give information, if they want, as long as some investigation has arrived, who are the suspects, when criminal charges are filed, because it's the work of the D.A.'s office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23631	I ask the MP Bosko Obradovic not to physically oppress the MP. Ambassador, you have a warning because you tried to strangle an MP with a tie. Shame on you! Ambassador, sit down and calm down. If you're not feeling well, we'll help you. Sit down. (Bosko Obradovic: Sit in our seat. ( ) I apologize to the MPs who came to the session asking parliamentary questions, according to Article 205. The Rules of Procedure, and they are present at the performance, and that is bad, Boška Obradovica. I've seen it and the video shows it in direct transmission, and I'm asking Bosko Obradovic not to come near me, strangling his representative with a SNS tie. This is a scandal and it's not funny. I'm sorry. I ask the Prime Minister, if he can give an answer in this atmosphere, there may be MPs of the opposition who want to listen. I beg you for peace and quiet. If I have to, I'll share 250 warnings, but this will be parliament, and there's no need. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23632	Thank you very much. As far as this GDP data is concerned, as the MP put it, I'm not sure I understand what he's talking about, because it's absolutely incredible that you have a cumulative, what, 47% of GDP. He was, I mean, at one point 3.1% when... This if you count, really then, what Minister Stefanovic said, if you count privatisation incomes and all that, which has nothing to do with the growth of the economy, then you can do so. How can I tell you...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23633	MP Bosko Obradovic gets another warning because he is being stupided at a cabinet session at parliament's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23634	Two things that show that it is impossible or at least that these are information that has no relevant meaning with the economy, and one is the unemployment rate at the time. If this was real GDP growth, then how in 2012 was the unemployment rate 26%? Well, that should be full employment and importing people from the region to work with us if it was a real rate of GDP growth. Today is 12% unemployment rate. So 39.5%, almost 40% of youth unemployment rates in 2013 with 47% cumulative GDP growth. Please, really, let's get serious. And today it's a high youth unemployment rate - 22.5%, but we brought it down from 40% to 22.5%, not to mention negative growth. When there was no problem and there were no criticisms, because no one followed it or when success was 0.4%, and even more success next year at 0.6%, we're now talking 2.8%, so whether it's going to be 3% now or whether it's going to be, I don't know, 2.5%. Well, as long as it is, you look at all the other indicators. It is important that growth is based on investment, on production that is seen through new jobs, which we can show. As for that, and back to freedom of the media, and thank you for giving me an example from real life about how you guys talk to the media. So, if the media says the government did something about what they're called? The government's information service? And that's not press pressure? That's how you see who divides the media into similar and inappropriate, and that's not the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23635	The word is Goran Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23636	I'll try to add a little bit of this discussion to it, and it'll be a little more constructive than it's ever been, because your questions, of course, you can ask how you want and what you want, but I don't think they're good and contradictory. You're saying earlier that this government is lying to citizens to live better, but citizens have kept voting for that government for, here, for the fourth, fifth year. So Serbia today is both a politically and economically stable country and this is very clear and all of our macroeconomic indicators in 2016 are excellent. You'll say - it's not great. I'm going to say great is because the trend in 2017 is similar, so we expect sustainable growth, which is very important. So, the sustainable growth that means that over the years, we have growth that will help us reach the next five to six years, at least to get closer to the countries of Central Europe. So we have a social gross product that last year was 2.8%. This year for well-known reasons, you heard them a little while ago, they'll probably be something smaller, but let's wait a little longer. You saw the World Bank and IMF estimate that next year we will have GDP growth between 3.5% and 4%, which also does not satisfy us. We'd like that growth to be much bigger. Inflation's stable. She's been at 1% for years. We decreased largely, to a large extent, we reduced the unemployment rate that was 26% in 2012. Now, you heard, it's 11.8%. According to the IPSOS survey, only in 2010 and 2011, 300,000 people were out of work. So this 11.8, although we want it to be even lower, it is encouraging and shows good trends and sustainability, as I said earlier. Foreign direct investments last year were two billion. This year, for the first seven months, we have an increase of 13%. We also increased exports and achieved a surplus, which was simply impossible in some previous times, we achieved a trade surplus with all the countries in the environment. This is not just about us from the government, ministers and those who deal directly with it. This is what all relevant institutions and organisations are talking about both in the country and abroad. So you have the position of the Fiscal Council, you have the IMF's position. Yesterday, what happened, I think the president mentioned and congratulated it, too, is one great thing for the Republic of Serbia. In Vienna, the Forum on Competition and Competitiveness and Investment Attraction, Serbia was named the best in Southeast Europe, which is an exceptional sign for investors as well. It's an exceptional sign for foreign creditors. You know we've increased credit ratings several times already. So that all of this can greatly contribute to making our economy sustainable and sustainable in the coming period and growing at the rates that, of course, will primarily be in the function of citizens. We have five priorities and a course of activity in the next period. I'll just count them. I won't spread. There's got to be a chance to talk about it. I'm talking about the Ministry of Economy, since the topics, as you said yourself, are economic. The first is the promotion of the business environment, primarily the growth of the "Duing Business List", where we came from 91 to 47 places. This year we also expect a jump and expect to be among the first 15 countries in the coming period to be easier to invest. The second major segment is the end of privatisation. A painful, difficult, long process that has been under way for over 20 years and that we will end in the government's term. That's a big brake for all of us. Of course it's not just economic reasons. We also have social, demographic, and political reasons. So we expect this process to accelerate over the next period. We have basically the biggest problem with 11 strategic companies that have come out of the protection process. You saw today, I think, the privatisation of Galenika will be successfully completed. The other companies are, some are in the UKPR, some are ready for privatisation. So we'll end this process safely in the next period. The third segment of our work is the more efficient work of public enterprises that have always been the cancer of our society's wounds. I think in financial terms, in terms of corporate governance, we've made great progress, and we've made great progress. Let me just tell you that in 2014, these companies made a public loss of 65 billion dinars, and at the end of 2016 they had a net profit of five points of some billions of dinars, representing nearly 600m euros more, of course, in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr Jovanovic also spoke as an MP, had one question, I failed to answer him, about small and medium-sized enterprises. They are the engine of our development. We pay huge attention to that. In the last year we achieved, and for me even, a surprising result. Thirty thousand new jobs have been opened in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. In the end, it is an incentive to invest in which we have received the highest prize in Vienna, where over the past two years, since the entry into force of the Investment Law, it has been invested in Serbia around 400m euros and 24 thousand new jobs have been opened. That policy turned out to be good. There will be a sure chance that I don't owe you now, because you want to probably ask more questions, to talk about the time of the return of these investments, we can discuss the effects of these investments. But mostly we will continue with that policy. As I said at the outset, we expect one sustainable growth over a long period of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23637	A comment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23638	So there's no answer to my questions, and there can't be any because you can't tell the truth to people. As for your excellent macroeconomic indicators in Serbia, they have placed Serbia at the beginning of all economic categories in the region and Europe, and these are official data, which I present, IMF data and data from our Statistics Office. If they're lying, then I'm lying. Furthermore, while you're talking about unemployment, that today is 11.8%, you say that in 2012 was 26%, please tell me in absolute terms how many unemployed persons in Serbia were, how many today, when you have 11.8%, are the absolute number of unemployed persons in Serbia? I'm asking another question and I'm calling on article 51. The constitution, the right of Serbian citizens to be timely informed, to reply to the text of the oath taken by judges from Kosovo yesterday? Furthermore, my question is, will this text be published in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia"? Has the agreement with Pristina been reached in accordance with the Constitution and Article 142, which clearly states that the judicial authority is unique to the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia? The final question regarding whether those who adopt such agreements are familiar with the work referred to in Article 307. Criminal law? So, since you do not respect the Constitution, nor the law, since you manipulate statistics related to the state of life in Serbia, progress, improvement, wages, economic development, this country that you manage for six years can approximately be assisted by only Aunt Minister Vulin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23639	Dear MP, as you know, getting an answer to the supplemental second question you have the right only to plead with the answer for a maximum of two minutes, not to ask new questions. But, my God, there's time, so you'll learn. Next MP, George Komlensky.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23640	I believe you'll have a chance to hear what's smart. Ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, distinguished members of the government, respected Prime Minister Mrs. Brnabic, first of all, I would like to congratulate you more than the success of the first 100 days of work of this government. When we voted for you as prime minister and your proposal for the composition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we were absolutely sure that you would continue the successful path of Serbia's recovery that began in 2012. What I am particularly proud of from the Socialist Movement is your decision to entrust one of the most important ministries, the Ministry of Defence to our President Alexander Vulin. Our assessment is that, in addition to the extremely positive results in the area of economy, financial consolidation, the creation of conditions for new investments, the preservation of political stability, the preservation of a stable course, the preservation of political and military neutrality, the extremely significant strengthening of the forces of the Republic of Serbia's Army and the rise of its combat preparedness and the fulfillment of all expected obligations ahead of it. Of these priorities, it is particularly noticeable that the Serbian Army has been successfully engaged to secure the administrative line towards the AP KIM and control of the land security zone. Above all, the control and sovereignty of the airspace of the Republic of Serbia, the protection of the security of the state border of the Republic of Serbia towards the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia, which are jointly realised by the Army of Serbia and the MUP. It is seen that one of the key priorities for strengthening the operational capabilities of the Serbian Army, which is clearly indicated by the realised exercises of the unit commands of the Serbian Army's military camp, is basic and specialized training for more than 1,000 soldiers to serve a voluntary military deadline, equipping and modernising and arming military equipment, equipping 1,500 troops of the Serbian Army for emergency response, procurement of six moments 29, etc. The results of such engagement are more than visible and measurable, as 470 members of Serbia's Army participated in the realization of eight multinational exercises, at the battle target target of the 250th rocket brigade's members scored 100 per cent on the Shabla polygon. Since only a satisfied soldier can deliver even better results, I am interested in what will be done by the government of the Republic of Serbia in the coming period, the Ministry of Defence will do to improve the standards of members of the Serbian Army, increase the number of members of the Serbian Army through the reception of new professional soldiers, and I am particularly interested in the level to which the level of profitable work of the dedicated industry has been raised?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23641	Time. Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23642	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that, in my opinion, at least the greatest success and the most tangible fact is that for the first time since 1987, that is, after 30 years, we have acquired aircraft for the needs of the military and anti-aircraft defence of the Serbian Army. It's those six MiG 29 planes, and it's certainly a big deal for Serbia and Serbia's Army that we did it. We also saw October 20th how much better the Army looks today, how much better it's equipped, how much safer these people are in themselves. It should never be ignored and this quite large salary increase of 10%, but all that we do in terms of building new apartments for military faces, refinanced loans they took etc., etc. It is something that we will continue to work on because it is important that we also demonstrate the seriousness and security of our country. It was something that was very, very, very neglected in the previous period. As for the dedicated industry, it certainly has a huge potential to be one of the pillars of our economy's development and that's what's happening today. I was so happy when in the first 100 days of government work I went to tour the Yumka plant, which opened the new Yumko Ballistics plant, and thus joins the Serbian Army's defence system. Employment of the new 50 people, but I think there's going to be a new 70 next year, but it doesn't matter either. It is important to open new plants for export, for quality production and that all other factory workers such as Jumko realize that there is now finally a future for them and that there is a better future. I am also pleased, and it also shows how much we invest in the dedicated industry, which we finally managed to solve after so many years and so much as for "The Iron," when no one ever believed it would be possible to solve it, the problem "14". October in Kruševec and truck production in “14”. October’. The " Czechoslovak Group" took it, again some 130 new workers, but it is important that we finally have a dedicated industry that is rising, which is ready for export and that we have orders so much that, unfortunately, we still do not have enough capacity at this time to export everything we could export if we had these capacities and that is what we will continue to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23643	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23644	I would ask you to tell us what condition part of the budget is intended for the financing of the Ministry of Defence for 2017, and is there enough resources for all that is intended and planned to be completed? To tell us, if you know, but I think that's what the government should be dealing with, where they ended up with the destruction of 500 tanks and hoodies, 220 armored vehicles, 20,000 light weapons, 282 tanks, 220 transporters, 1,100 anti-aircraft cannons, 26 multi-pliers, did those funds end up in the military budget, were they even charged? Are they used to raise levels and standards of the Serbian Army, or are they possibly used by some chance for accelerated construction on return pastures? In addition, I ask you to tell us in the future, given the results achieved by our soldiers to target the goals of the Shabla polygon, at the 2017 international military games in the disciplines of the Tank Viapon and Polish cuisine, in 2017 in the Russian Federation on the Alabino polygon, where our Mladen Nikic of the Second Brigade was named the best tank commander in the competition of 57 crews from 19 countries, who taught him that? Did generals from Brussels, generals from West Point, or did that knowledge have the opportunity to gain from our, verified, honest and most honest war generals, General Lazarevic, Delic, Sljivancan and all those who wore the most common uniform of the army during the 1999 bombing? Which way will their further training and their promotion go? Obviously, the lack of adequate funding by the military has not diminished the desire and will of members of Serbia's military to gain knowledge and achieve exceptional results. To what extent and how will the co-operation between the Military Academy and the Civilian Sector continue to expand, and are there opportunities for the scope of the services provided by the Military Academy in the civil sector to expand further and thus extend the standard of all our citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23645	Nebojsa Stefanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23646	Thank you. I can answer you in part about the co-operation that the Ministry of the Interior had with the military industry's projects and programmes, i.e. the dedicated industry, of course the Ministry of Defence. I think Minister Djordjevic can do the same, since he was until recently a defence minister, he can provide more information on some of the issues you asked. I mean, it was very important, let me say, and when our president today was the defence minister and when essential reforms started and later on, let's say when he became prime minister, essential reforms of the military industry. We had a lot of wide debates where the money was invested, because the state had now managed to create money, managed to create excess values, managed to create surpluses in the budget. We, a few months ago, decided then by the Prime Minister, today's President, Mr. Vukic, had an investment of over 50m euros in various factories of the dedicated industry. First of all, it was the idea to increase production capacity in these companies, because we have demand on the market today. There is a possibility to produce and sell more infantry weapons, more ammunition above all, mortars and artillery grenades, mortar mines. Of course, what is very important and what the MUP has done in co-operation with the "Yugoimport SDPR" is modernising our existing weaponry. We, unfortunately, only today after many years, have the possibility to modernise the armored transporters of our artillery tools and other systems used, of course, in part and in the MUP, so I can talk about when it comes to transporters M11 and M15, which are domestic production. They're modernized today, they're air-conditioned today, and they've got a deep system of folded fire that's managed from inside the vehicle where the shooter isn't exposed to fire. New systems, therefore, new machine guns mounted on them 12, seven millimeters, which provide maximum firepower in the fight against terrorism. So that's what the gendarme units are using, of course, army units, but the gendarmes that first set off into the new vehicle testing system. Then, it is after the development of the vehicle “Lazar”, “Lazar modification 3” which also entered the arms composition of the MUP. And the last vehicle Milos, which is in fact at the stage of development and which we will also use for special police units. Those are the big steps that have been made. Minister Djordjevic can speak much more, of course, about "Nora" and "Alas" and other systems he is familiar with, which are not armed by the MUP. But I see when I talk to these people, and when we talk about common border control and we produce drones today, when we produce drones, when we have the opportunity to make our resources something used in the military industry, or in the police and the military, it does indeed make us active in responding to all the threats to the security of the Republic of Serbia. Whether it's regular peace-making activities in the preservation of security at the state border, whether it's funds that are used to deter the potential attack or the operational security of deterring any terrorist attack, as we unfortunately had in the surrounding countries. Today, the military industry has the opportunity to develop. I think these guys and the girls who work there and who give huge results in the system can help modernise both the military and the police and be one of our country's economic backs. On the basis of all this and based on everything the government has done, we have room today, and for that I thank the prime minister and the president that we have spoken with and who have given us huge support, today we have room to raise salaries in the security sector. As a result, in the following year, members of police and military will have 10% of the salaries that will be higher. It's not the only thing, because we can invest more money in modernization, we can improve the position of people who work in uniform, who do today's most complex jobs, I wouldn't leave out those people who work in civilians and who do the same job, I meant the same thing. Of course, what's very important is that we did it, and I think that's the next good move, to talk about the possibility of building apartments for members of the military, the police, the BIA, I think it's important that we solve these people's housing issue because it's good for the system, for everyone. I would take the opportunity to commend the work of the Department of Defense in the Department of Military Health. A large number of MPs had the opportunity to see what VMA treatment was like. We had the opportunity to be there in the environment of the best experts, to provide our people with the best possible care and I want to thank all the people who worked, all the doctors and professor Vukosavljevic and the entire team of VMA who helped these boys and girls get the best possible health care. All this tells us how much effort has been made in the previous period, that what has fallen over the branch, unfortunately, of our industry, is now becoming the future of our development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23647	Thank you. The word has Minister Djordjevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23648	The Honorable President-in-Office, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, gentlemen, only in not so long ago 2012, will I return all citizens to what was in 2012, and what they had the opportunity to see at the promotion of cadet in September 2012, which is the fact that only one plane was flying and operating in Serbia's military state, that the army was dressed half in an old uniform, half in a new one, that there was different weapons, that vehicles were not in proper condition, most of them. Today, something also Minister Stefanovic said, the government's responsible policy, the defence ministry's responsible policy since our president was the defence minister, has led to our first investment in the 50m-euro dedicated industry after 30 years. We have 10 Mig 29 planes now on runways in Batajnica and Kraljena, we have the Serbian Army equipped with the most modern weapons and tools. We have that our dedicated industry is able to equip an army with a uniform, to keep everyone single, to have not just one winter, but to have a summer uniform. Also, we have the opportunity to produce shoes. Our rifle has been recognized in the world and it's one of the few modular rifles. The "Yugoimport SDPR" has also developed into a very serious company whose products today are highly wanted in the world and wanted to even be exported to a larger extent than our capabilities. The irresponsible government that was until 2012, I think, since I learned that nothing was accidental, must have deliberately meant for the Serbian Army to be what it is. Days were numbered in 2012 for the Serbian Army to be in serious trouble. It was a sale, it was melting, but unfortunately, that melting and selling was for a very small amount of money, so of those couples that were meant for the military, the army couldn't get anything. I have to say, the war reserves were zero. The army didn't have any fuel or war reserves. Today is a completely different situation, I can't talk about what the army has, in what amount, but I would say that you should be proud of everything the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has done since 2014 to today and everything it plans to do in the future, and I believe that the time ahead of us and everything that comes, will be proud of all citizens of Serbia. The Military Academy, after 40 years, for the first time this year's responsibility the government of the Republic of Serbia received funds, not only for work, but for the first time for investment in VMA renovation and in the purchase of new equipment, serious equipment. We're trying to track everything the Ministry of Health does, because VMA represents a brand. It will remain, of course, in the service of all Serbian citizens, because Serbian citizens deserve it. Serbian citizens deserve to have the best institutions. That's what I'm convinced, and the Minister of Health works, and I'm confident that Minister Vulin will continue with that when it comes to VMA. Last one, about education. The University of Defense, our lecturers are very wanted, which is because of the experience we have, which is because of the knowledge we have. The experience that has the most military leaders has followed us since World War I. Today they are very wanted to teach at all the universities in the world, and also foreign students come to us, and we have them at military university. The military university has opened its doors for the sake of search and for civilians. Today we have both regular and emergency. We have both master and doctoral studies. So, I think that in the next period, the Parliament and the citizens of Serbia will certainly have good news when it comes to the defence ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23649	Thank you, Minister Djordjevic. The word is from the Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Zorana Mihajlović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23650	Since you have asked a question of soldier standards, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia invests a lot in equipment and everything we get, as well as conditions in institutions, it is very important that we talk about standards and housing for our military. One project made with the Ministry of Defence and with Serbia's Building Directorate is called "a stand-by". Estimates have been made, we already have a pilot project that works as such in Kruševec. Two buildings and 92 apartments built for members of the Army. The average war is about 120 euros for a two-bedroom apartment. But what is even more important is the continuation, not only of the "pilot project", but of the custom apartment, together the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, the units of local self-government and, of course, the banks. We are working on the needs that exist now, which are estimated at 13,000 apartments, namely 13,207 apartments, meaning in Belgrade 6,840 apartments, in Nis 1,549, in Novi Sad 799, in King 696, in Vranje 454, in Kruševec 184, in Čačka 148. We're talking about a million square meters of apartments for our army. It's a project we keep working on. I think it's very important, because when we talk about a modern, modern army then its members must have the conditions they need to do their job, that means they have apartments under favourable conditions and the lowest possible wars they will pay for such apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23651	Thank you, Vice President. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23652	I thank the chairman. It's a good thing he's finally so-called. and the self-proclaimed elite stopped leading Serbia to ruin in 2012, and what kind of elite they're saying, because they think of the elite as a false Citizens' Protector, a failed presidential candidate who had a score of seven, from the history of the state and the rights of eight, from constitutional law 6, from the introduction to civil law six, from criminal law six, from the political economy seven, from the family law seven, from the socio-political system eight, from the organisation of joint work six, from the labour law of sociology six, international private law seven, civil procedural rights six. For them, it is an elite, and it is not the elite Alexander Vucic, who, from the introduction to civil law, had nine, from constitutional law 10, from the criminal law nine, from the political economy 10, from the family law 10, from the obligation eight, from the international public nine, from the inheritance law 10, from copyright 10, from the socio-political system 10, from the organisation of joint work 10, from the international private law 10, civil procedural law 10. This elite, so-called, has happily gone into the past, and this elite will not determine who will be the elite lecturers at the Military Academy and who will convey their knowledge to our pythnomies, and will obviously not fulfill the wishes of its financial and trustees, which is to move Serbia from the path of a neutral, independent and independent country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23653	Thank you, colleague Komlenski. The word has the People's Messenger Fatmir Hasani.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23654	Thank you. I am asking Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, the position of the Albanian minority in Serbia is not at the level of domestic legislation or EU standards. Along with several agreements and conclusions between the Presevo Valley political factors, the government of the Republic of Serbia, and some international factors, do not show the expected results. The government should speed up the implementation of our demands so that we can reach the levels of other minorities in Serbia without talking about the rights of Serbs in Kosovo who have three ministries, one deputy prime minister and a lot of judges at all levels of the judiciary. The question – will we soon be on the government's agenda to realise our demands, because four months ago, President Vukic made promises to resolve our demands and that our demands are acceptable, but so far, not a single step has been taken. I would like to ask the president of the National Assembly Maja Gojkovic – whether legal deadlines will be met when the early local elections are scheduled in the Presevo municipality, because the deadline is November 14th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23655	Thank you, Comrade Hasani. Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23656	Thank you. Dear People's Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have prepared a report for you on the progress of the seven-point plan, which we discussed when you were at my office ten days ago. We've got that progress. We can do better, of course, than in all things, but we have progress. As for the position of the Albanian national minority and all other national minorities in Serbia, I still have to tell you that it is not true that the Albanian national minority does not have the right, as do not have national minorities of the EU or any other national minority in Serbia. So Serbia is a leader in Europe in respect of the rights of national minorities and institutional mechanisms that national minorities should be respected. Above all, through the national councils of national minorities and budgets that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all citizens of Serbia single out to support national minorities. Also, education in the native language, a culture of information in the native language and other things concerning multiethnic life, such as bilingualism or multilingualism in municipalities. It is something that I, as Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, was invited by the European Parliament in Strasbourg, to present what we are doing and how we work with the national councils of national minorities as an example of best practice in Europe. Some of the EU's leading countries, some countries that are the founders of the EU, do not recognise national minorities at all. So you cannot declare yourself a national minority in some countries, as well as in some countries in the region that are members of the EU. So, in that sense, I think that together we should continue to work to improve the lives of all national minorities in Serbia, but also with the understanding that much has been done, that much is done, and that through the national councils of national minorities, national minorities are fully involved in the political, social and economic life of the Republic of Serbia. Anyway, these days I'm going to send you a report on the implementation of the plan at seven points. I owe an answer to a respected MP who paid me back about the number of unemployed and how it is expressed in absolute numbers, that in 2012, we had 26% of the unemployed in Serbia, and that today we have about 12% of the unemployed in Serbia. Now I'll tell you, in 2012, there were 790,000 unemployed in Serbia, and today there are 622,000 unemployed in Serbia. So 168,000 people were employed between 2012 and 2017. So we hired between 34 and 40,000 people a year. That's not enough, we have to do better and it'll be better, but, as I say, it's not a little 34-40,000 people a year. When we reached 800,000 unemployed in 2012, just slowly. It didn't go out of the country more than it did in those years. So the complete manipulation is that at this point the brain drain is larger. The brain drain is unfortunately something the Republic of Serbia has been struggling with for decades. Don't let us manipulate such terrible subjects. As far as the issue is concerned – how much of this is employed in the budget? In the public administration today you have more than 40,000 people less than it was in 2013. We've reduced it and we've brought into legal frameworks that temporary and occasional jobs can go 10% of that. It was 24% before, but, as I say, we're finally introducing standards because we can count them, because we have a central social security register, so we can count every employee. There's a lot less on the budget, and the evidence is that we've been through the 7th revision of the IMF arrangement. Please, it's one of the great things they've been following, so it wouldn't have gone away if most of these people were busy on the budget. Another thing about the IMF, the MP says, is that the IMF places Serbia at the beginning. We are now successfully completing a three-year very difficult arrangement with the IMF. An arrangement that the government, I think in 2006 or 2007, negotiated for more than six months, which lasted one circus for 20 days because it was too difficult to meet. We thus show how serious and reliable we are in the most difficult circumstances. It is another signal to international organisations, both international financial institutions and foreign investors, and domestic economy, as far as the government of the Republic of Serbia is responsible, and this one and the previous one. The International Monetary Fund says Serbia is one of the best students in how reforms have been implemented, and you tell Serbian citizens to say they are at the beginning. If we're getting started, how did we end it, or are we finishing a three-year precautionary arrangement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23657	Thank you, Prime Minister. Is there anything else Mr. Hasani wants? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23658	Thank you. I'd like to add more about some of the figures and statistics we've heard here, we disagree that the differences in regions are very large. For example, our region there in the south or these municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac are very underdeveloped, there is unemployment about 60%. Now, does it make sense that somewhere in a municipality in Serbia, unemployment is 6% and about 60%? Is that good? Secondly, we have been here in this House for 26 years, always one MP or two, and we have always been in opposition. Now, for the last year, we've taken a stand to be the parliamentary majority and to be one little element of this whole stabilisation. We ask that you show more attention and that we are even more serious about reducing these differences and that this area be developed, so that we are all satisfied and that we create conditions for EU accession.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23659	Thank you. Just, who was the question referred to? (Fatmir Hasani: to you. I'm afraid I can't answer you at this session. I'll answer you right away on Tuesday, it's no problem at all. The word has the Prime Minister, Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23660	I really want to thank you once again for all the support and great construction in this, I think, very important and crucial moments for Serbia. Because if we don't continue this way and for our country we don't do something to get her back on track in all these segments, and in the economy, which we did pretty much and what we need to do to continue, and to complete public administration reform, and to go seriously into judicial reform, to have a more efficient and transparent system, which was completely killed by a realistic reform of the judiciary, none of us will advance, nor the most advanced municipality, nor the least advanced municipality. We are trying to develop Serbia evenly. You can see that, above all, the previous government has invested most in southern Serbia, Nis as one of the centres, but also in Vranje. When we raise those centers, then other local self-governments will slowly rise. So, thank you for your constructive attitude and I will always be available to you for further talks and see how we can further improve the situation in Presevo and Bujanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23661	Thank you. Do you have a comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23662	Thank you. My second question was for Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic – will legal deadlines be respected when the early local elections are scheduled in the Presevo municipality? The last thing I wanted to say was that we're not interested in being pettyrs, but, for example, This is the Minister of Health. The State Hospital in Vranj, Mr. Minister, which is scheduled for seven municipalities of the Pcinj County has 600 workers. We don't have any Albanians here, and we're about 30% in Pcinj County. We're not saying we're looking for that percentage, but there are no Albanians, no doctors, no nurses at the Vranj hospital. That's why we need to work on slowly starting our integration into the state organs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23663	Thank you. That was your comment, I'll answer you on Tuesday, think the answer is yes, although I have no right to do so. The word has an MP, Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23664	Thank you. I welcome Mr. Minister and Prime Minister. I'd just like to appeal to all of us, therefore, that this anxiety was not needed today, that maybe we've organized ourselves a little better. No matter what it says in the Rules of Procedure and what rights and obligations are, it would be our turn to get at least five out of power and the opposition to get to ask the MPs, it would be correct, and the government and Mrs. Prime Minister can respond and defend themselves, they should not be defended by preventing or somehow obstructing the opposition's representatives from coming to order. I'm the third in the opposition to be able to say something, and the questions are too much. So, first question to Mrs. Brnabic, it concerns you. You don't feel a little uncomfortable or uncomfortable at least when you listen and see in the media these days how, here, you mark 100 days, and it's been said that some new extraordinary parliamentary elections are being prepared. Do you think it's appropriate, do you think it's positive and it's not you or me that let go or that we can influencing the media to write about it? It is clear from where this atmosphere is created and the speculation of the election, at the moment the government marked 100 days. Another important issue, also at your address, and after not having some ministers I wanted to ask, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic said on Thursday (October 19th) -- as far as I'm concerned, I gave approval as president, and the Serbian government granted approval after today's session. It is thought to approve that Serbian prosecutors and judges swear an oath before Hashim Thaci and swear allegiance to Kosovo's judicial system and Kosovo's constitution. So, again, I quote -- I gave my approval as president, and the Serbian government also granted approval after the session was concluded on Thursday (October 19th). You've, I suppose, had a session of some, uh, Thursdays you usually have sessions. So what does this approval look like and how can the government give approval to its prosecutors and judges swear an oath to the constitutional and legal order of a self-proclaimed state of Kosovo. I don't think that's possible, and I'd just like to see what it looks like, to let me know, to show later what that government decision looks like, because the president said the government approved. With that in mind, I would ask Mr. Interior Minister Stefanovic, who, by the way, I think was a very good speaker, or president of parliament, but I think a very bad interior minister may be wrong in one, I may be wrong in another, but I think he was doing a good job. So, he spoke about the anniversary of the Eggs, just these days that anniversary, what happened to that investigation and the affair that rocked the media for days, talked about a coup, attempted assassination on the president, and so on. In the end, it was nothing, as usual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23665	Time. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23666	Thank you. You warned me to obstruct the opposition with my long answers. I really need to tell you that I don't see how that's true, considering I've been asked four or five questions. One of the MPs asked, I think, five, so I have to answer five, and all the serious questions are: pension issues, which are very important to you as MPs, but also to all the citizens who are watching this, the issue of freedom of the media, the question that is so important and so debated. I have to explain the situation in the media today, finally, because everyone's talking about it very casually. I think it's important, above all, for the democratic order of our country, that I explain it in detail and explain it. I quoted the Anti-Corruption Council here, I quoted MPs from the opposition, so I think it's really very relevant, and I don't think I'd do my job, and I wouldn't give due respect to this home unless I answered these questions like that. So I don't mean to obstruct. On the contrary, I think I owe you all the respect. As far as our prosecutors' oath is concerned, I will remind you that Kosovo and Metohija are provinces within the Republic of Serbia and thus the Government of the Republic of Serbia treats it. If the province has made a decision, I don't really know why you're asking the question of how we, as Government, can react to that decision. That's one thing. So, in addition, the other thing is that it is in line with the Brussels Agreement, which, if I am not mistaken, has adopted this Serbian Parliament. We as a government are obliged to comply with those legal provisions, agreements and everything else the Serbian Parliament says. So we have full legitimacy, that is our obligation, and it is in line with the oath that I and all of us here, my team, have set up to respect and defend Serbia's constitutional integrity and legitimacy, Serbia's sovereignty above all. I'll also tell you, I think it's also the justice minister, who unfortunately couldn't be there today because of the official trip abroad, said loud and clear, but it seems to me like someone doesn't hear or doesn't want to hear – that what has been done allows for greater, better legal protection of Serbs in Kosovo at the time we don't have, thanks to some, full control over our southern province. We will do as the Government, I hope with the support of the Assembly, but not only the coalition that supports this government, but the entire Assembly, anything it takes to improve the quality of life of Serbs in Kosovo as much as possible. Well, I guess we're not against each other here. We want our judges, our prosecutors at our disposal. It's a big deal for them. I don't know why the government was criticised for this. This has been done to the international policy again, so that we have also received serious points from the international community and once again shown that we stand behind our words, unlike some, that when we adopt, negotiate and adopt agreements, we implement them. Today we can say even more where the Serb community is, where it is, because it is important, it is important for Serbia, it is important for Serbs in Kosovo. But if we were not to fulfill what we said we would fulfill, we would not be able to ask others. Why do you not fulfill yours? That's how it used to be done. It was once promised and nothing was done and then the credibility of the country was lost, then the country collapsed, and then the sacrifice and the play with both the territory and the people and everything else was sacrificed. This isn't such a country anymore. That's my answer to that. So first, Kosovo is a province in Serbia. Secondly, the Brussels Agreement was adopted by the Serbian Parliament. Thirdly, we are responsible partners who, when agreed and approved by the Serbian Parliament, go courageously into implementation. Fourthly, whatever needs to be done to make the life of Serbs in Kosovo better, the government will.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23667	Thank you. The word has Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23668	First of all, when it comes to security as well as top state officials, but of course other people in Serbia have always found it wrong when it's so easy to relativize and when it's so easy to look at and try to represent the public, everything, like a joke, a farce and something like that. I remember once when Boris Tadic was president of the Republic, there was an incident with his vehicle when the driver, I think his last name was Cimpl from the US Embassy, had a cut-off of that vehicle column. It's been days, attempted murder. That man spent his life in prison, in custody, I don't know how many, a few months, etc. A very serious investigation into the state's conduct, because she didn't want to allow the possibility that such a thing was really an attempt. When we find a place at home, a family house, the President of the Republic, a larger amount of weapons. It's certainly not a joke and it's certainly something that's serious for both the security services and, of course, the ministries that deal with and the protection of the president, but at all, the protection of security. And I've heard that media structure multiple times, because it's supposed to serve and repeat that mantra, about when you say you've been in power for six years, we've been in power for five years. Now you're saying you kept talking about a coup. We've never mentioned a coup in our lives. We didn't say coups, but that's good, and then somebody's gonna tell us, but that's what the paper said. Well, you know what it all says in different newspapers. If I were to start quoting what was written in various newspapers now, we could talk by morning if you think it's a serious way of talking. I want to show you what the newspapers are writing. But what is important is that every case like this is given maximum attention and security services are being investigated in that particular case by hundreds of people. What's all this done? How far did it all go? I can't tell you every detail, but for years, unlike some of the past times when, I'm not sure that the security services in full scope and capacity are understood at all, since it must be looked at regionally, the existence of organised criminal groups, their creation, coordination and organisation and the role of their members from our premises and in the transport of drugs from South America to Spain and distribution in central Europe, the ways of that money, as well as of course the distribution of that money into legal flows and money laundering, even in our country. And it's been going on for many years without a serious response from the state, and the question at all, I'm not sure, I can't say, because I don't want to say anything bad about many professionals in the police, but it seems to me that a lot of people weren't aware of the depth of that organization, and they didn't have a clear idea at all, at least I figured that out when I became a minister, there was no clear idea how to confront that system. Today, the situation has changed. We today in collaboration with many services, to tell the region and Europe, and of course to the United States. We have had good communication with these security services precisely because these individuals travel to these countries, make security interesting contacts, work on all that, so I don't take the time now. Today as a state, we have a clear picture of who are members of individual organised crime groups. Today they are not that kind of security risk for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because we do not allow it. They can't walk quietly here. We don't let them take five minutes off at the bar. We won't let them. Police arrest them, search them, go to their houses, go where they move, stop their cars, open them, search every millimeter. We don't want to show them that those in Serbia like they used to drive black jeeps, no one could stop them. Today and how we push them. Well, we're arresting them today. Look at the number, but we're talking about serious members and what we call a coffee shop and a scissors clan today. Take a look at the serious members of the last year or two, who have been brought in both clans and those considered to be more serious shooters. I can't arrest a man who doesn't have any evidence right now, the police can't, the prosecution can't, it's just people can't do it, it wouldn't be legal. I think they can be arrested for something, but these people would be freed, it would only harm the Republic of Serbia. As you know, some of the cases we're seriously following must be monitored for six months and a half a year, if it takes five years to reach those who are officers. And I said, if you remember when we presented that case, when we gave public information that it wasn't possible, in any case, that this was a very complex case, because we expected it would be very difficult to find someone who left that weapon there. So they did it consciously. I can't say if it was a warning, whether it was left with the intention of waiting either Alexander Vukic or one of his family members. So, a lot of speculation in that sense that we'll only be able to solve when we have a whole network in our hands and find out in fact. Question, can we do that? I'm not saying that we have all the answers and that we have answers to all the questions. But I'm telling you completely responsible. At no point in my life, I wish something like this had never happened, as interior minister, as friend of Alexander Vukic, I wish something like this had never happened, not to think about it at all. Not to him, to anyone, to any man in Serbia. If I were to show you, I have here a list of at least fifty applications, different reports of people, journalists and people in public life that we have exposed, processed, found perpetrators, filed criminal charges for many of the court proceedings in progress. I never release that kind of information to the public about people who are currently in danger because that's what I'm thinking about breaking their security. I want to tell you, for the sake of the police, work intensively and solve a lot of cases. Do you get rid of everything? Don't get rid of everything. Not all crimes are lit up, but it's resolved and lit up much more than before.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23669	The word is from the peoples MP Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23670	Thank you. I don't doubt that the police are working, I don't doubt that there are many good professionals in the police force, I'm just talking about some kind of abuse, media political abuse, with otherwise I'm certain of the security work of the police, or at least the biggest part of the people in the police. In that sense, I can't help but look at these front pages, not my private or opposition newspapers again, but newspapers and media that are known as some kind of non-official, official messengers of the current government where it was bidted, not doubted, but bided in advance – prevented the assassination of the prime minister, prepared the assassination of Vukic, by the zolića wanted to kill Vukic, the Wolf wanted to blow up in a juice, the killer came from Bosnia and so on. If they find DNA means it was an assassination, the wolf was shot by strangers and so on. And then we get a response from your ministry and the Department of Justice, by the way, a good and safe answer, it is evident that someone has made an effort to do so is not just as clever as they often know to be those answers, where they say the prosecution has announced that by looking at and assessing the results of all the actions undertaken, there has been no evidence that any criminal activity has been committed that has been taken place under official duty. So there's none of that. In doing so, you've notified how many people you've listened to, taken DNA samples. That's what it means, an irresponsible panic. Of course, every threat should be questioned against anyone, especially the most important state officials. The other thing, Mrs. Brnabic, you said and I agree that Kosovo is a province in Serbia. Well, if so, I really don't know what reality we live in, are you saying that Serbian judges and prosecutors swore an oath to the Constitution of Kosovo or the Constitution of Serbia or the Constitution of the AP or the Constitution... ? It's already considered an independent state. The Gospel of Miroslav doesn't have to, as promised here only to be in the Constitution of Serbia. Of course not, they took an oath before the president of something called independent Kosovo, which has its own institutions and they have moved from one legal system to another legal system. That's what the problem is. I had questions, of course, for Mr. Ivica Dacic, of course he left so I could skip it, but at least I have to mention this little time to Mrs. Zorana Mihajlovic, that it doesn't turn out to be neglected. I don't want to talk about whether people live worse or better. Everyone feels and knows whether they live better or worse, as everyone has a judgment on whether the media is better or worse. But you're Mrs. Mihajlovic's signature if I'm not mistaken for the "Belgrade on Water" contract. You signed that contract, it wasn't signed by Alexander Vukic, it was you, so I ask you simply and by the way, how is this project, how is it progressing, are you satisfied with the realization? At the end of 2016, some towers, first towers, were to be moved in. I'm not an expert in this area, but I trust scientists from the Academy of Sciences and Architecture experts that this project has been problematic since the beginning. I respect your work, or work on clearing the terrain, but I support but not what you do after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23671	Thank you. Minister Loncar and Zorana Mihajlovic reported. First Zorana Mihajlovic, then Minister Loncar.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23672	Many of the projects we started, not only started, some of the projects we completed in the previous three years, and I am proud to say that Serbia can for the first time stand behind completed, primarily infrastructure projects, I mean highways and road maintenance, for the first time on railway lines, we will reach apartments and "Boodrad on water". I have tables here that show that every year since 2009, for example, only zero-mile rails are listed in the table each year as regards the maintenance of these railways until 2014. So, from 2008 to 2014 then the government and the ministry and the railways, however you like, because I think it's one chain, in zero kilometers rehabilitated, reconstructed railway lines. Since 2014 things have really changed over 200 kilometers of track has been rehabilitated, reconstructed and we start among other things this year and the fast track. As for “Biograda on Water. ” So, let's move on to what I think everyone sees first when they're passing through Belgrade, so they're towering and what they see. I don't want to speak at all, since we've talked so many times about what this Belgrade looked like, let's just put it on the side, let's just look at what's called a "Belgrade on Water" project, I really don't know if anyone could be living in Belgrade, or not living in Belgrade, whether it's a position or an opposition to be against the infrastructure project. It's the same as when Vuk Jeremic said it was against the Nis-Medare-Pristina highway. It's crazy for me. There is no better thing for a country than to build and invest in infrastructure than apartments, buildings, roads, highways, railways, new railways, high-speed railways. So, there isn't, you, I guess you should know, it's something that triggers the economic growth of a country. So, "Belgrade on Water", and the towers that are being built go their own stages as planned. What I think is good on these projects is doing domestic companies first of all, you have the Energy Project and a large number of contractors, you have medium-sized enterprises and smaller businesses. It's like all other infrastructure projects, it's a big economic momentum. So when you have from an entrepreneurial store to a medium and large enterprise, it means that these people who, over the past ten years, haven't had enough to do, today through these projects that the state when it created conditions for such a thing can do. As a result of this, Beograd on Water and Roads and Railways and all that I mentioned, is that today he participated in construction in social gross product over 6%, was 4.4% when we did, when I became Minister of Construction and Traffic. So things are going through that dynamic that's planned, and I'm not talking about a train station, about moving the building and everything that's following projects, creating project-technical documentation, etc. So it's not clear to me how it's possible for anyone in our country to have something against a single infrastructure project. It's good for us, it's good for every employee in this country. We wouldn't have had that unemployment drop we have today. He's an eyewitness. It's not just statistical data, it's data, but the fact of 26.7% we have 11.7% unemployment this month. It is the same methodology of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, which was five years ago and which is still today. Therefore, I am satisfied with the dynamics, not only of Beograda on Water, but also of other infrastructure projects. All we can do as a state is the City of Belgrade, if we talk about this project, create conditions, build buildings and apartments, I think that's what we should do. As I believe that everything we need to do from investment conditions, that domestic and foreign investors come to us to open factories, then we should do, because these 55 open factories along Corridors 10 and 11 are not open because someone decided to be Serbia, but because this country created conditions, created infrastructure and everything that goes along with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23673	Minister Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23674	I am truly sorry that the honourable MP could not wait to answer this question concerning the non-employment of Albanians, in particular at the Vranj hospital or any other, but because of the truth, we must say that people are finally employed in the competition and that it absolutely has nothing to do with whether there is an Albanian or something else. It is necessary to report to the competition and meet the conditions. So, to be clear, we need to get back to you, because we can't hire someone, then we'd be back to some key or something that was, I think it's way past that. I want to remind you of one thing, did we all forget that the main topic was the maternity ward downstairs. Many promised that it had been opened five times, that it had never worked, that we had finally done it and that it worked, that it worked, that children were born, which was problem number one, if you remember. This is where we hired all Albanians and those who didn't graduate from college in Serbia, but we recognised to them the colleges that ended second place, specifically in Pristina, and they are now working there. One more thing I have to tell you, every day there are more Albanians who trust in Serbian health and come to Vranje and Nis and Belgrade. So if these patients don't mind the structure of doctors working with us, I really don't see that we need to talk about someone right now, break principles and do things. What, do we cancel the competition again?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23675	Thank you, Minister. Let's hear the comment of Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23676	I thank you for trying to answer, I can't say you answered, but that's the point of this debate, we make remarks, and you say yours. It's no problem that you have two or three times the time, it's getting more, less okay, but let's hear each other out, even if we disagree. I'm sorry, of course, that there was no more time for other colleagues, and I had something else to ask. Anyway, I don't want to remind myself of these questions, I'd just like to remind Mrs. Brnabic so little, if she hadn't been adopted here, in fact, the Brussels Agreement, but a report on the negotiations was adopted, so within that, the government's report, on the negotiations... (Bosko Obradovic stands and holds a banner. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-10-26-0.u23677	MP Obradovic, you have one more warning, because you hit the head with a poster of Djordz Vukadinovic. Shame on you. So you're disfellowshipped from your next session. Your behavior is unspeakable. Irrespectless, it is not worthy of this House. (Bosko Obradovic: And what did I do? You are rude and rude. (Bosko Obradovic: You have to explain to me and explain to the citizens why.. You strangled the MPs today, yelled here, made a mess, and now you insult the dignity of our Parliament. (Bosko Obradovic: You have to tell me why. Shame on you. (Bosko Obradovic: I didn't understand what the problem was. You're a disgrace to yourself. (Bosko Obradovic: Why don't you tell the citizens why? Dear Members, this is what we have done today's work... (Bosko Obradovic: This is what we're done with? Thank you Vlado, ministers and brothers. )......................................................................................................... So today's work. I am very sorry about the majority of MPs who have taken this job seriously for not being able to finish our work and ask questions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but we have attended what the parliament did not deserve. I thank the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, thank all the ministers of the Republic of Serbia who responded to the call and answered seriously the questions of MPs who wanted to participate in this work. And I apologize to the citizens of Serbia for the rude and rude behaviour of MP Bosko Obradovic at this meeting. Thank you.
