ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15850	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Predrag Jelenkovic and Meso Omerovic. We continue our work and move on to the search in detail on the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Aleksandar Cabraja, Zoran Zivković, Marinika Tepic, Đorđe Vukadinović, Marko Đurić, Miroslav Aleksic, Goran Bogdanović, Nenad Konstandović, Zdravko Stanković, Vjerica Radeta, Zoran Krasić, Nemanja Šarović, Sreto Perić, Goran Ćirić, Goran Ješić, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Božović, Radoslav Milojičić, Maja Vidinović, Gordana Čomić, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Djeoljub Stevanović, Dejan Niković, Srdjan Nogo, Bosko Obradović, Dr Dragan Vesović, Marija Janušević, Mr Ivan Kostić, Zoran Radojčić, Prof. Dr Milan Šević, Marijan Ristič, Dr Sandan Ristič, Dr. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, as well as the opinion of MP Dr Aleksandr Martinovic following the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the 1st amendment in the same text were submitted by Parliamentarians Aleksandra Čabraj, MPs Zoran Zivković, National MP Marina Tepic, MPs of the people, Mr Djordje Vukadinović and joint MPs Marko Đurišić, Mr. Miroslav Arsic, Mr. Goran Bogdanović, Mr. Goran Bozinović, Mr. Goran Jesić, Mr. Balša Božović, Members of the Parliament of the People's Republic of Rade, Mr. Zoran Krasić, Mr. Goran Krasić, Mr. Goroslav Perić, Mr. Tomislav Žigmanov, Mr. Dusan Petrović, Mr. Dusan Petrović, Mr. Mr. Slavan Šević and Mr. Mr. Mirna Šević, Mr. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15851	Ladies and gentlemen, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the solutions offered in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges have already proved to be very controversial. That has been talked a lot by my colleagues in the debate in principle, and otherwise these solutions have already changed many times. So, the duration of the term of office and the possibility of re-election of the President of the Courts in office has already proved to be controversial, and I would take advantage of the opportunity to remind you of what the Venice Commission said in its remarks on amendments to the judicial laws specifically pointed to this particular member who is mentioned here, which is an article 72 relating to the duration of the function of the President of the Courts, because, as I say, the Venice Commission is introducing the risk of politicisation in the election of the President of the Court. So, I quote the opinion of the Venice Commission – it can be used as an instrument for political influence on judges since the law indicates the possibility of the National Assembly re-elected a president between two or more candidates. At the same time, the expert body of the Council of Europe suggests that the risk of politicisation can be reduced by limiting the president's term of office to one mandate that cannot be renewed. So we can see that right now the opposite solution of this highlighted by the Venice Commission has been offered, and we have a great opportunity here to see how people who are full of the mouth of Europe, who are filled with the mouth of various standards and criteria of Europe to be managed, are so easily denied these same standards when it is possible to carry out the influence, i.e. rewarding and punishing of similar, or unspeakable presidents of the courts already said in this debate that they are a key factor in the influence of the authorities in the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15852	The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15853	Thank you. I'll use those five minutes. Of course, this bill is unacceptable with the arguments made by a colleague who spoke before me. I think there are other arguments. Generally, the promoter calls for a special position that the Constitution and other presidents of the courts have in the Supreme Court, and then it is said further that the practice has shown that this part of the law should be amended. Practice can be interpreted in various ways. Anyone can interpret the practice in one way or another, the question is what is legally relevant and the question is what is essential for defining the position of the President of the Court. The appeal now, today, that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court has a special position in the current constitution is one conclusion that has been late for nearly a decade. Namely, the constitution by which we live and work in this country was brought long before the current government came to power. Therefore, as of 2012, to this day someone has been able to conclude, if they follow so closely what is happening in the practice of law enforcement, that the position of President of the Supreme Cassation Court should be evened out with the position of President of other courts. Of course, that's not a real excuse. The essence of this change is the concreteization, the foundation of as long as possible, practically one life term of all those who could be useful to the current government. I can say that this is not the first time and that it was already done 10, 12 years ago some other government also wanted to nail its presidents, judges, prosecutors, all others to stay forever and may be useful forever if someone in power needed a special service, to find a special solution, to forget some objects, to let some objects go into obsolescence, which we had the opportunity to see, we see the same thing in this government where the influence of an executive authority is obvious, i.e., first of all, one individual, and that is the top of the executive authority that almost became in the questionable election of the president of the state. That's not good, and it doesn't guarantee the achievement of the goal that the promoter obviously has. That is why I call on him to give up this proposal, to choose in Serbia and the prosecutors and judges and the presidents of the courts by knowledge and experience, by past work, by how they acted in accordance with the law and justice, and not by whether they were close strangers who were once or to any party who is now power. Only then will we be able to have an independent judiciary, only then will we be able to have all legal certainty, that when someone does something against the law, they will be certain that they will go to prison or be punished by someone else, and that people who have their political views, and speak of them publicly, will not be targeted by persecution and by the authorities of the judiciary. These are the basic conditions for normal life in one country, these are the basic conditions for Serbia, in addition to being geographical in Europe and what is today in 2017, to really be a state of European and a country living in the 21st century. Everything else is something that doesn't look like a republic, which doesn't look like a state, which doesn't look like a modern world, but the remains of the past are from those five hundred years of slavery and not some perhaps worse things. I ask that all four members be deleted, of course, and the explanation, written by Mrs Vesna Rakić Vodenilić, to be clear, the president of the New Party Council, says – the need to amend and supplement the Law on Judges, is explained by the speciality of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, in the text below, as well as that court itself under Article 144. The Constitution of Serbia. This builds the view that the specificity of this court requires that the status of the president of the basic courts be regulated differently which is not a legally relevant argument. The law on judges was passed after the adoption of the Constitution of Serbia in 2006 and took into account the alleged speciality of the constitutional position of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. Also, an extension of the office of the President of the Court has been proposed that he no longer be able to perform his judicial office because of the completion of the working century, as well as the proposed possibility of another election of the President of the Court to this position, which is explained by the need to stabilise the position he has. Then let's choose him for life, he'll be stable for life, for, apparently, a successful role as president of the court. These arguments, in addition to being legally and relevant, are contrary to the obligations set by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, mean, or some of our predecessors, themselves, Mr Krasic and which is an integral part of the National Strategy for Justice Reform for the period 2013. – 2018. This applies to all four members, and I think it would be completely wrong for individuals, perhaps one party, perhaps one coalition or part of citizens, but a very small part of the citizens of this country, to enter into a legal change that would lead to us practically creating conditions for family-based manufactures and the lifetime mandates of some judicial officials. I spoke yesterday, concluded Friday about the Delic family case, if I'm not mistaken where all the prosecutors are. This is where conditions are created, not just for everyone, but for decades, which is not good. The people of the judiciary, they know better than I do that the President of the Court isn't any magic that solves...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15854	You're bringing the end, colleague Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15855	Another sentence, which he solves miraculously in some great way, but only one among the same judges who make up the court.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15856	The word is from the People's MP Marinika Tepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15857	Thank you. Based on what my predecessors have presented in relation to this package of justice solutions, I must further point out that what lies ahead is nothing more than the rightful national strategy, the reform of the judiciary for the five-year period of 2013-2018, a document similar to the government of the Republic of Serbia. The Head of the Government's Action Plan for Chapter 23. It looks like everything in European gloves is trying to get Maja Aleksandar Vukic, the president of this government, to say that the judiciary is independent. This decision only extends and strengthens the influence of political decision makers, or the National Assembly, in relation to the judicial authorities. So instead of being the other way around. As I said, the task we have given ourselves, that is, this government, particularly through the action plan for Chapter 23, which is essential, fundamentally and fundamentally for the continuation of negotiations with the EU, is only increasing the influence of the National Assembly rather than being the other way around. What's the problem, is that you still don't do anything to change the Constitution, your colleagues and your colleagues. The change of the Constitution, it is a solution to this situation and also by the action plan that is foreseen by the end of this autumn, the change of the Constitution exactly in the part which is taken from the jurisdiction of the National Assembly or taken away from the right to choose judicial authorities, is already leaving the profession, and you are now finishing it on a small door, just a few months before the deadline for the change of the Constitution expires. I ask you to think once again and that the motionary still underlines this solution, going after what he has set for himself as a goal, and that is to change the Constitution, and not to a small door, in secret in rare sessions, almost before the summer break, setting up prosecutors and judges, not only with discriminatory biographies, but which violate what this government and this country have taken responsibility for the EU. It is absolutely impossible to change the Constitution. I am not entering at this time whether you have the majority to change the Constitution or not, the fact that you do not have it as a two-thirds absence of that support that is necessary, but that is your problem, not our problem, and in accordance with what you have set out, and what this country, should, responsibly represent in front of the EU authorities, you will open the foam field. So if the Action Plan is not respected, it doesn't mean absolutely nothing happens to anyone, we'll change it as we've heard it, my God, we've broken some promises and some guarantees we've made ourselves. I would very much like the issue of foam to be opened at the level of European negotiations. So, if the objectives agreed and agreed are mutually met, Serbian citizens should know that this government from the republican budget will pay for the penalty unless the agreements are resolved differently.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15858	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15859	Thank you. A few questions have been opened here through so far discussed. Thank you very much for this opportunity for the replica, let's get some things straight right now. As far as the Justice Reform Strategy is concerned, it writes well for whoever is able to read it and properly process it, in an opinion given by the legislator, that as far as the strategy is concerned, it foresees itself, I will now read it, amend the normative framework in accordance with the existing constitutional framework, with the existing constitutional framework. So it's absolutely pointless to talk about what's going to happen after some future amendment to the Constitution, whenever it is and whatever it means. Now it's done the way that this strategy predicted that, of course, it's not threatened by anything. As for the issue of independence, or politicisation, is there one single argument that it is now more political than it was? Who's elected judges so far? The same one who will choose after I believe this bill is passed. So nothing is drastically different. There's nothing more dramatic about it, and everything that's said on the subject is more of a folklore, to be honest, so, one estradation, so there's a little bit of something to talk about here. Much more interesting -- full of the mouth of Europe, I've heard literally such a sentence at least twice after this last address, which is the reason for the replica. Come on, if we're going to talk about Europe, let's talk about the level of results. How many open chapters are there for the mandate of this government and the previous government led by Aleksandar Vukic? Eight open. How many incarcerated? Two closed. How many open or closed by those who criticize and say that we are full of Europe's mouth? Well, zero. Zero. Is there anyone capable of calculating how many times more and how many times more successful today? Why isn't this story of penalty surprising? It's no wonder that it's totally manipulative for those who don't love their country, and they don't root for it to invoke any damage, or pay and any consequences, those people who don't do anything else to their country to slander and talk about it the worst, every time they have contact with Europe, these things to invoke, more than logically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15860	Thank you. My colleague Zivkovic, on what grounds? (Zoran Zivkovic: Replica. He didn't even mention you. The word is from MP Marko Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15861	In the principle debate on 42, 43 points of the agenda we had last week, we were unable to hear any arguments that explained how and why there was a change in the November 2013. I will continue today in this debate on amendments, and the amendments are to delete these members who have been proposed by law, how have we come by this change? In 2013, the law said that the term of office of the president of the courts was four years and that they could be re-elected. And then the ruling majority, the same ruling majority, is because it has been in power for five years in the Republic of Serbia, with an explanation that the presidents of the courts should have the same treatment as the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, that they should also regulate the choice of the president of all courts, means that it is a five-year term and that they cannot be re-elected. That's what it was like to explain. That's what the minister here in the assembly said. That's how the ruling majority voted. Part of the ruling majority, I admit, was not Mr. Martinovic, who has now proposed this law. The only reason he gave, he said, “I think it’s better this way. ” Certainly, he has the right to think that this is better, as each of us has the right to think, to propose some law and there are more than 60 laws in the assembly procedure proposed by the MPs. But since they came from the MPs of the opposition, neither of them obviously will be debated, nor will they make decisions about them, but this will be done in an urgent manner. Mr. Martinovic gave in his explanation, written, since we didn't hear anything from him except that he had the right to think, that according to the Constitution and in his opinion, the position of the President of the Court of Justice differs from the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and that he therefore proposes the solution that was three and a half years ago, means that the President of the Court is elected for four years and that he can be re-elected, however, once again. It's a newspaper now. There are other changes in other members. That's what we'll do when we get to those members. And that was pretty much all said in the debate. The rest were the praises of judicial reform, government work and all that. I was talking about how we're working to raise the efficiency of the courts, if on the agenda of the session after six and a half months we have a proposal to elect the president of the courts, seven presidents of the courts. For six and a half months, it stands in the congregation procedure, and we are full of mouths to worry about the efficiency of the judiciary, whether the judiciary works in the interests of citizens and so on. The only thing we've done here through the discussion and I'm glad that I kept it, to get from the minister who was here about these other points of the agenda recognition. It was kind of hard for her to say that. He says he doesn't see anything controversial about admitting that it might have been a mistake to change the law in 2013. So we admitted that maybe it was a mistake. It is a great progress, but it is important that we know that it may have been a mistake that then Minister Selakovic suggested, especially in light of the story of his future engagement, when this government falls in a few days and next month we choose a new government, so he made a mistake, the majority, who then voted here, made a mistake. I hope we hear it from MPs who made a mistake in 2103. They say, "We've made a mistake, and now we want to make it right." There's only one problem -- if they start to apologize, the session will never end, because there are so many mistakes, in every law they've passed in the last five years, that they'll never make it to the end. So, I think the only way is either to accept this amendment or, since the Proposer has the possibility of withdrawing this bill, because there is no use if these changes are adopted this way. She made it clear that these changes are bad, that they allow clans to be created by courts, enable the President of the Court to influence the court for a long time because he is sitting in that place, affecting the work of the court and certain verdicts. Once again I want to ask the question – who is this law written for? This law has been written for certain people, whether it's the presidents of Belgrade's courts, in Novi Sad or another city, but it's obviously the people to whom the ruling majority owes something and who expect them to do some work for them, and everyone knows it. The people of the judiciary, they all know who this law was written for, because if it were the fruit of an analysis, it would come after some debate, it would probably come from the ministry, they would have some arguments, not the exact same arguments that changed the solution in 2013 and now they return it back to the past. It's amazing to me, the same argument, it's just being used differently now. So, I'm calling on the promoter to say who he wrote this bill for, name and last name, because it's obvious that someone needs to be done a favor, that someone needs to finish some dirty work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15862	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, the Prophet of the Prophets of Radeth.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15863	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges is a bad proposal and, worse still, the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's why we in the SRS asked to delete this Article 1, as well as the other members, because it is unacceptable for the National Assembly to adopt unconstitutional laws. And, of course, we will probably hear the objection, that is, the remark – contact the Constitutional Court if you think that when the vote is unconstitutional, but unfortunately, and the Constitutional Court has shown that it serves the interests of the ruling majority, not only now, but also the previous ones, and that it has completely lost credibility since the time when they have decided that the mandate is allowed, you remember that time, and then later when they declare that the Brussels Agreements are not a legal act, so that the Constitutional Court can't discuss them, and finally, when they refuse to debate... (Alexander Martinovic: Is this a topic? It's dark, it's very dark. When they refused to discuss the theft of pensions, because it was the law for a certain time. These are all examples of the most drastic of which I warn about what it will be worth when we address the Constitutional Court for the lack of constitutionality of this bill. With this bill, the ruling majority only wants to instrumentsise further, i.e. round the instrumentisation of judicial authorities for its own purposes. We've heard here and the remarks that six months ago a number of court presidents have been in V.D. the state and that is one of the reasons for the adoption of this law, but it is interesting that those who make observations that they are now designated presidents in V.D. The state should be reminded that, at that time, the presidents of the courts in V.D. The condition was almost two years old, so you guys have plenty of time to catch up with them, because otherwise you're doing everything exactly the same way. This law, or bill of law, has come upon the general conviction of judges, most judges. I assume you've spoken to some judges, but not to those who are willing to serve the regime, but to judges who want to do this job honestly and honestly and in accordance with the law and it's public secret, ladies and gentlemen, that this law among the judges is called "Novik's Law". So it's very clear who makes this law happen. You brought in "Ljiljana's Law" two years ago, and now you bring this one. It is indeed something that is inadmissible for the National Assembly. Why are we talking about the instrumentation of judicial authorities? We heard here on Friday or Thursday in the debate the case of our colleague Marijan Risticevic, who was sued by the MP over something he said in the National Assembly, which is absolutely unacceptable, but I must remind again that it is also continuity. Against me at the time, a colleague, I think from Capco, had filed a criminal report, too, because of something, she was from the DS, which I said in the National Assembly. Of course, I didn't even respond to that D.A. and the D.A., and that's over by rejecting that application. I cite this as an example to remind you again that you gentlemen are doing the same thing. You, using courts and prosecutors, are persecuting political non-equals. We have a case, say, Starr Ristic, president of our warm district board, who is a committee member and who has reason to criticise the local government and for every address in SO Kursumli gets criminal charges. And no one reacts, no one thinks it's inappropriate and that it can't be done. On the other hand, we file criminal charges because we were robbed of furniture, computers, everything in the rooms and no one was responding. The latest case of abuse of justice by local authorities is what's going on in Vlad's Han, and we really need to bring it out for the public's sake. Predragčnavić, president of our Municipal Committee in Vladic's Han, the famous and honorable man and businessman from Han, the owner of the Tzajkača restaurant, was first targeted these days by tax inspectors and various other inspectors, who completely unfounded him for 15 days closed the place. Of course, this is a bit of a leap out of the subject, but I just need to explain to you what's been going on here. The man ended up in the hospital because of pressure, and otherwise he is the winner of many awards – the prize for the most noble performance of the year since "Evening news", recognition for the humanity of RTS in 2009, the Episcopic Gramate of the SPC, a gift from the MUP zipo lighter, thank-cards, more copies of the Army of Serbia, a psychic pilgrimage thank-you note and was voted for the 1999 War Merit Order, which was not given to him and then for his radicality. There are, of course, many more thank-yous. The man is the president, I said, of the SRS municipal board and has no intention of setting up a party, nor that function, but that is why Dragan Stevanović Bosca, who can't stand such a serious man down there, went after him except with inspections, both with prosecutors and with the court. Believe it or not, Predrag Cresnic put on his private facility a large canvas "Dr Vojislav Seselj – the best for the president" during the campaign. This is why he got a criminal report. He's got this canvas on his own house, and he's got a criminal record. Of course, no one's responding. In addition to voting on your behalf, you're still going with this unconstitutional law. You know, when prosecutors do their part of the job, you should also have judges, or the presidents of the courts. It's bad what you do. You know, when you used to talk about judges who were elected here from the party cabinet of Dusan Petrovic, you're doing the same thing now, but it's not Dusan Petrovic's office anymore, it's another Dusan Petrovic and it's not the party anymore, it's the party that's in power now. You've entered a lot of the justice system and you've seduced a great deal of fear among the judges who work and who want to work freely, independently and independently of their judicial work and to perform their judicial functions. Do not think that in this way and in these laws which, I repeat, are the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you will succeed in bringing all judges under your control. True, now you'll probably intervene again. You've put about 600 judges directly from your party. Don't say that's not true, because you used to brag. The president of your party, Vukic, boasted and showed people, said – here is one part, and there are 630 who became members of the Progressive Party. Two days later, they became judges and some of them will now be court presidents, some are, some are presidents of the Supreme Cassation Court. We talked about it when it was a topic of the agenda, but you're doing it all in the framework of the Constitution. Don't pass any laws that the Constitutional Court will eventually bring down for you. Fortunately, there are now people in the Constitutional Court who have personal credibility and we believe that they will overcome what has happened so far in a court that has lost credibility as the most important institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15864	The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic, right on the line. The president of the SNS is mentioned in a negative context.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15865	Thanks again. Yeah, that's the basics, you heard, mentioning the party president. Let's do it one more time, maybe it wasn't enough before. As for the re-exposed notes, the observations that something is now very bad because there will be additional politicisation, pressure, etc., in principle the selection mechanism can affect or cannot affect. Does something change when we talk about the dialing mechanism? No, I don't. So, what was in force, in the sense of who was choosing, will be valid after we adopt this. Nothing's changed here. There have been some who, in their amendments, seem to have given up, at least in terms of giving up the reasoning, which is very good, discussed little on how the Assembly's mandate fits with the proposed duration of the judge's term. You can't help but notice that it doesn't make any sense to talk about politicizing. If someone wants to secure a mandate, he can't have any idea who's going to do most of the things that maybe, maybe, we have no idea, in theory, are going to discuss whether he's going to be re-elected or not. So he's got to be good, he's got to be professional, he's got to put his trust in everyone, so that the future majority can trust him at some point and want to propose it. It's completely declassified to talk about any political pressures, if it were in accordance with the Constitution, of course it was, and I wouldn't waste my time on that. Speaking of wasting time, I'd also like to invite you to focus on the debate. It is not appropriate to discuss the amendment proposal without talking about the prosecutor's election. This is an amendment to one law concerning these election mechanisms, or re-election of judges. So let's stick to this story. I understand there's a good mood for some things to celebrate. I heard this weekend that some of the political survivors, and on their part, congratulations, but that's not why we're making something out of this session that she's not supposed to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15866	Thank you. A colleague of Radeta's, after the amendment.? (Miss Radeta: For the first part of the argument.) He interpreted you well. Do you appreciate that? Right now, yes. (Faith Radeta: Well done.) I've never won anything in my life. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15867	Thank you. Let me just say I'll take part in the Parliament Group's time. Two decades ago at the Faculty of Philosophy was a famous story, not a story, but a case of professors who couldn't possibly be expelled, and then a special law was passed so that they could be removed from school. It's one famous group, some of them are still alive, most of them are not alive anymore. It's just one example, often cited, that it's not good when the law is passed for one man or for a group of people. That's not good, even when the bill is good, given the circumstances, when the motive is partial. The law, as we know, is already something that is general, which presupposes society. In this particular case, unfortunately, it is also a bad proposal. So, not only is it brought about by certain people, the individuals everyone knows about, who everyone knows about, or at least most of them know in the ranks of the judiciary that this is about, I'm not going to deliberately name them, but I'm saying, those who need to know, they know. Their colleagues know them. I think it's a nasty service, even to those people who, as far as I can tell, are very good experts, and people who are worthy of their judicial and presidential functions. But just so the citizens, or those who are watching us, don't lose sight of what this is about. This is about one change, a changed norm, which brings back the old solution to the re-election of the President of the Courts. That's why, I suppose, the proposal came from a concrete colleague, not from, say, the government or the minister. I'm sure it's good when MPs propose bill proposals, there's more to the good part of it. Clearly, the suggestions coming from the congregation’s majority will have a greater chance of passing and being adopted. It wouldn't be a bad idea to adopt a proposal that comes from the opposition at times. But anyway, in this particular case, the problem is, not that the individual is suffering it, the individual is an MP, but that the proposal is bad, and probably it's something that he knows. Why is it bad? I tried to explain it in my amendment, and I was rejected, or the amendment was rejected, with an additional explanation that only judges could be elected to the presidents of the courts, as if it were at all controversial. In the amendment alone, I tried to draw attention to the fact that a similar practice, when someone first among the equals, so who's only the first among the equals, when they have to perform that function, and yet to perform it in a renewed mandate, usually suffers its basic function. What I'm saying is that they're just going to suffer, it's an inevitable, basic judge function of these people who were elected presidents of the courts. In one term it can still be acceptable, but with two mandates they become some kind of manager. They become some kind of legal manager and simply cannot perform both their presidential and their basic judicial function equally effectively. Even if there is no possibility, and there are opportunities, abuses or influences on the judiciary through this institution of the president of the courts, because as I said on Friday, it is harder to control the whole group, the whole court and judges, and it is easier to control that control with the president who assigns the cases, takes away the cases and plays a very important role in that regard. So, even if there is no such possibility of political instrumentalisation, and I am not at all going into whether that instrumentation would be done by the present or by another, future power, bear services to these judges themselves, or those people who are presumed worthy, who are acting as judge president, are, in this way, inevitably turning into some kind of legal manager and moving away from their primary, judicial functions. That's why I think and appeal to the promoters that he simply withdraws his proposal, although I believe he won't do it. Just one last sentence. It's usually said about opposition proposals, when the amendment is deleted, then it says give something constructive, not just destructive, don't just delete. I think that, in this case, erasing the law, or eradicating a concrete member and withdrawing the law, would be the most constructive thing that we could do here, all of us, as MPs. I am very sure that, either after some decision by the Constitutional Court or at some other opportunity, so with some other majority or forces in the Assembly, in case another need arises and some others are interested in the way that some people are now interested in this amendment to the Law, that we will have to re-change this law. So we're not in a situation where we're adjusting to individuals again, that in some way we're embarrassing ourselves, that probably, I can't argue, I don't want to argue, but my colleagues convince me, that even an unconstitutional solution, and that's not unconstitutional, it's bad. It's bad for the judiciary, bad for the independence of the judiciary, and I say it's bad for those people themselves, I say, by the assumption of the honorable, who seem to have a bear service and some kind of suspicion of their future election, or re-election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15868	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15869	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A few days ago, we discussed 43 disputed points, so the amendment of the Law on Judges, Mr Martinovic, head of the largest Parliament group, was no place to speak of it in more detail. What is represented by amendments to the Law on Judges, proposed by the head of the SNS parliamentary group to the MPs, is, in fact, a couple of excellent political views and open spaces that they want to cover through these changes, that they are politically affecting the election of the president of the judges. A political attack on an independent judiciary we've never seen before. I would remind you that the latest reports on the judge's poll on pressures and independence, where judges, today in Serbia, the profession says that nearly half of the judges in Serbia felt pressure on their skin, according to a survey by the Association of Judges of Serbia. According to a survey involving more than 1,000 judges, politicians are said to be pressured, but via representatives of the judiciary and most via the president of the courts. Forty-three per cent of judges say it is systemic pressures, in the atmosphere of general pressure on judges, and this is predominantly by the president of the judges. The judges say – we are suffering political pressures, judges say – these political pressures come most often from the president of the courts, and the president, the head of the SNS Parliament Group says – yeah, okay, then I will propose amendments to the Law that I will further strengthen that function, explaining in a completely incredible way that we want to put the president of the Supreme Cassation Court, who is a constitutional category whose mandate is five years, which has no right to re-election, you are actually putting the presidents of the Basic Courts in a more privileged position than the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, because, under one, they have the possibility of a double mandate and under two, their term in total could be eight years, compared to five years. All your arguments fall at the first class of logic in high school. It is amazing your argument that the failure to accept any changes you have proposed to the National Assembly, courts, and the system will have any adverse consequences. Please state what the adverse consequences are, if perhaps these adverse consequences are not the fact that some judge, some president of the court may have conditions for retirement these days. These amendments to the Law are made urgently, without public debate, contrary to the position of the profession, contrary to the position of the Judges and President of the Courts, contrary to the Action Plan, against our obligation to bring our legislation into line with the European Union, against the declarative support of judicial independence. This is a brutal influence on the judiciary. The fact that in 2017, at a time when we should be talking about the laws that should precede the amendments to the Constitution, instead of talking about amendments to the Constitution relating to the full respect of the independence of the judiciary and finally not being the National Assembly to elect judges, the Presidents of the Courts, but those judges themselves in the way they predict to elect the Presidents of the Courts, we are talking today about strengthening the functions of the President of the Courts and strengthening the impact of the executive, which is the influence of the legislative authorities. So, what Col. Djurisic was saying today and a few days ago, I think you're as a proposer with which the Prime Minister and the Government agreed, that according to an emergency procedure, no public debate, no elemental logic, with the sole political intention of controlling the choice of the president of the courts and that they are acting in the manner that suits you, you have to ask a few questions -- which of the presidents of the courts are going to retire these days? What are those cases waiting in courts where the presidents of the courts are retired? What are these cases, and what kind of judges do these things? The profession says - relatify the influence of the President of the Court, and the SNS says - no, we will strengthen the influence of the President of the Court. The profession says - we suffer the most pressures from the president of the court, the SNS says - we will improve that further, that influence. You owe it to the citizens, you owe it to the institution, you owe it to the rule of law to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15870	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15871	One word in place, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, and that word - amazing. As many as it has been, twice so far. We are talking here – let's show where the connection between that famous story of political influence, about increasing pressure, about increasing the impact on judges and this proposal is. What's she looking at? Who chose? Who's gonna choose the same people we're talking about today? It's the same, it's the same. There's no difference. There's no more freedom, no more power, no more anything for anyone who can influence judges from politics. That's why those who criticise and can't show, can't say a word in half, somehow describe what's changed and what's drastically different now. They can only repeat - pressure, pressure, pressure without explaining it. It's a shame when someone mentions the first class of logic in high school, which seems to be exactly the moment they missed. Where the moment to miss, I don't get it, but four is less than five. If something lasted five years, and it is proposed to last four in the basic duration, then how can this be a privileged position now compared to the previous state? How is that privileged? Because shorter? Yes, it is. Is the re-election mandatory? Well, it's not. Reelection can be, and it doesn't have to be. Whether it depends on that particular person, and depends on those who have to decide whether to be re-elected or not. Who will be these people depends on the current relationship of power, on who forms a majority in a congregation, all that some order of institutions predicts, not what someone only imagines. Unbelievable again – for what? Because someone here keeps asking – what is the name and last name of the person for whom this is being made and someone here is persistently criticizing political influence and someone comes from the ranks of those who are, and it is about a famous yellow party, without shame and shame, signing and stamping their municipal board of proposals and the characteristics of judges in 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15872	Time. The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15873	I will use the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group. Article 1 The draft law amends the position of Article 1 72. The original reads it – the president of the court is elected for five years and cannot be re-elected. So he chooses and can't be re-elected. The promoter is asking for a new stance to be deleted -- the president of the court is elected for four years and can be re-elected president of the same court. We asked for an amendment to delete this member of the bill. We have cited the reasons why we believe this is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Let's immediately locate which part is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. To remind Article 49. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is prescribed that the National Assembly elects the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the Presidents of the Courts, and I will now skip what is listed, in accordance with the Constitution. That means the choice is always in accordance with the Constitution. It doesn't have to be in accordance with the law, it has to be in accordance with the Constitution. If we look at the other provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, it is from Article 142 to 152, where the judicial authority is prescribed, I do not deliberately move on to the Supreme Council of the judiciary because it is an authority, not a judicial authority, there is no judicial office, then in these few members I must say that the word – the mandate does not exist, absolutely does not exist and that in terms of the duration of the period in which a president can be held is the only one from Article 144, paragraph 2, which says that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is elected for a period of five years and cannot be re-elected. This is similar with the President of all courts. It is now changing and I must say that what is changing is no longer five or four, and it is not the opposite of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because who can do more, but this – that it can be re-elected president of the same court, it does not correspond to what is called the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not mean, predict or allow for re-election. So the judge's office is permanent, it ends with the Constitution and the law of the prescribed cases. One of those cases is a working century. It's 65 years old. If the judge has completed his duties, he has completed, as it is said, 65 years of age does not have the opportunity to extend the duties of the judge because by law, his judicial office ceases. Just to remind you, we at this session of the National Assembly have two points of the agenda where our committee made a mistake. One judge was offered a decision to suspend his term on 17 January 2017, and we are in May, and the second president of the court is suggested to suspend his term on July 27th when he turns 65 years old. So, at 65 years of age, no one can perform their duties as judge. No one can perform a judicial post because it's said to stop by law enforcement. When it's said to stop by law enforcement, every decision we make is a declaration, it's not constitutive. That's what this is about. The constitution does not foresee the re-election of the President of the Court, does not foresee re-election with the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, which means that no court president can be re-elected as president of the same court. He cannot be chosen and it clearly stands in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's how it's supposed to be interpreted. It was not so interpreted here, but it came from the assumption that the function, and it is more correct to say -- the duty of the president of the court goes beyond the framework of permanent judicial office. That's wrong. The President of the Court can't be someone who doesn't have a judge's office. We will have a situation here, if you go twice in four years, that someone and when he is 65 years old, according to the function of the President of the Court has a permanent judicial function, and that is what the Constitution forbids. This examines the deep unconstitutional nature of this complete bill and these three very important members who point to this. I hope that there is a will in our judiciary, too, why someone like the President of the Court in two terms would have 30 to 50% higher wages, not as a judge, but as a management and business in a court of law. You know that the presidents of the court have an increased salary depending on how many judges the court has, so it goes from 30% up. This constitution does not allow, does not allow and the permanent judicial function is primary, and function or duty, it would be more correct, the President of the Court is, must say, an exception and since this is an exception, he must share the fate that is prescribed for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15874	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15875	We have proposed eradicating Article 1 of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law because we believe that if this law was passed today, it would affect the reduction of independence and independence of the judiciary, although, of course, there is no independence and independence today, but certainly, with one such law, it would be further violated. I am the reason for the adoption of such a law, I repeat, remains unclear and calls to the Constitution and the need to distinguish between the President of the Supreme Court and the President of the other courts seems to me to have no logic, because I would like to hear the difference between the cases of the judicial administration in the Supreme Court and the cases of the judicial administration in other courts. Neither is the Supreme Cassation Court any court of special jurisdiction, but it is the highest instance and court of the highest rank in the Republic of Serbia, but it is not a court of special jurisdiction in relation to other courts, so it is obvious that the proposer did not know in what other way to explain the need to adopt such a provision, and he resorted to some legal mechanism that would try to create an illusion. Why is it bad to reduce the duration of the term of office? It is precisely because during the term of office of four years it is tied to the duration of the National Assembly’s term of office. I repeat, I don't think there is any certainty in Serbia that independence and independence and justice and guilt are not only borne by political parties, the ruling majority, but also by the judges themselves, who should stop thinking that they are the victims alone, but that they too realize that they are doing this judicial system, because if 44% of them in an anonymous poll admit that they have made decisions under the pressure of a political or pressure of some other kind, where are those who didn't admit it in an anonymous poll? Where are those who, for example, have made the opposite of the law some decision because of corruption or some personal relationship? That percentage is then dramatically higher than 44%. We have one big problem in the state, that over 50% of judges admit that they don't make decisions and they don't act in accordance with the law, but in some other way we all have to ask ourselves. I repeat, that their colleagues who work in a secure manner have one obligation to report criminals and that, if they know that their colleagues are doing so, they are obliged to act because if they are silent, they are committing a crime. It's a picture of the Serbian judiciary. A colleague from the ruling majority just before said one very important thing, which should be cut down and always kept in the archives, when the ruling majority corresponds to the opposition MPs, which is - the situation in the judiciary and the choice of people will depend on the majority in the assembly and most in the assembly are responsible for the situation in the judiciary. I respect that, and I welcome that. The situation in the judiciary has been bad for years. Some previous authorities are guilty, but the current authorities are now responsible for the situation in the judiciary and the current authorities are obliged to address these problems, and she does not. 'By reducing the term of office, you are further binding your hands to the presidents of the courts and tying them to your own parties, and we have seen that the political influence on the judiciary and on the work of the judges and on the conduct of the judges is usually going right through the president of the courts. I could agree that here most of the MPs, even those MPs who comment and defend this bill, are unlikely to affect the work of the judiciary. This influence is being exerted from other centres of power, which are less or more tied to political parties and are exaggerating and moving from one authority to another. They used to be in one government, so now they've joined another government through certain individuals, tomorrow they'll want to join the third government. I hope that in the future, Serbia is waiting for some responsible government that will realize that it simply cannot be smarter than the predecessors by thinking that it will outsmart that political hydra and the mafia, an octopus that has been eating this country for 15, 16 years now, here 17, will break the practice. Sir, the answer to your question may not affect your party's official authorities, but certainly people like Nikola Petrovic, such as Nenad Kovac, such as Aleksandar Djordjevic, such as...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15876	Your mic's off. Comrade Nogo, what you suspect is your problem. You can get out of this room and your doubts, don't shout, tell your doubts at the press conference. If they are true, you will prove that no one will sue you, if they are false, prove in court that they are true, and do not here in the congregation that you abuse the right, that you are calling people who are not here, who cannot answer you, and that you are defending yourself behind parliamentary immunity. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15877	Mr Arsic, I brought this up at press conferences and in the National Assembly, as well as on TV, on the Internet, so that we do not hide behind the immunity of the MPs, but we insist for two months and repeat these same allegations and these same claims. I've led a number of polemics here with my colleagues from the SNS, just proving to them and providing concrete material evidence for all of this. But here, let's drop the influence of politics on the judiciary. And the people of the judiciary themselves are turning from mandate to mandate. Is it a public secret that you have judges who have membership cards, before the SPS, and then DS, and now SNS?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15878	Please, about the Presidents of the Court, Article 1, you asked for a erasure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15879	That's right. The presidents of all courts in the Republic of Serbia or the vast majority have a SNS membership card. Is that about them?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15880	Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15881	Convinced it'll be the shortest today [[Nemanja Sarovic: No basis for replication.)]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15882	Excuse me, colleague Orlic. Mr. Sarovic, don't pretend you don't know. A colleague, Nogo, has just said that most of the presidents are members of the SNS. That's not the basis for replication? Why are you interrupting? What do you want now? Continue your colleague, Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15883	Or should we get started? So let's do it one more time. In the belief that it will probably be the shortest today, primitively and rawly and just as smart and contenty as it was every time it was heard, either at these press conferences, TV shows or here. It is not possible to be anything more serious, if we know that the source is a newspaper of the type "Tabloid", and if we know that it refers to things that are directly to the burden of those who have produced, made, finance and propaganda material, it is equipped with a parliamentary group that tells these things here and that does not at all get into how empty and pointless they are, which is talking about people who have already responded to the system and to this country, who is trying to present it as a topic today, and that is so clever that no one even remembers it anymore and has nothing to do with today's moment. Only a few years late to discover what they allegedly discovered, so they made some kind of affair. So, thread of content, not a point. What's it for? To keep someone out here loud, to point a finger. I can only take that as a consequence of anxiety and I can understand it humanly. I can't accept someone putting that kind of behavior in here, though, who it's from -- it's good. It's important they don't beat anyone, especially if it's not about women. I can't justify it even when it's a result of anxiety. If someone were accusing me of embezzling church money, I would, I'm sure, feel very bad, and that anxiety would, in some ways, show off. But even then, I'd hold on to doing it this raw and primitively, as those who already do it do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15884	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15885	Mr. Arsic, you have violated Article 104. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and you violated article 27 and you broke it persistently. I have, and before the last time you gave Mr. Orlic the right to the replica, thought about calling and warning you not to violate the Rules of Procedure, because, practically, after every MP from the opposition, you gave him the right that he did not have to send an apostle to Orlic for his alleged replica. It is not enough for someone to mention power or to mention the Serbian Progressive Party, to be entitled to replication. The previous speaker said most judges or a large number of judges have Serbian Progressive Party membership cards. You can't interpret that as offensive. Being a judge is not offensive. Or do you think it's offensive to have a SNS membership card? Which one? Secondly, you yourself boasted, when I say you, I am talking about the Serbian Progressive Party, you may not have been a member of the party at the time but of the Serbian Radical Party, as judges who were unconstitutionally resolved by the Democratic Party hurried everything and joined the Serbian Progressive Party. You guys used to brag about it. I don't know what the problem is. And you cannot be the one to decide according to the Rules of Procedure what is true and what is not. Someone has a right to talk. It may have been a chatter, but you have no right to say – it is not true, leave the National Assembly session and hold a press conference. The People's Messengers were sent here right now to speak to them. Anyone can hold a press conference, and only the MPs can get word here and address the citizens. That's the difference. And you continue to demean not only the MPs of the opposition, but the entire National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15886	Two minutes. Are you going from the beginning or from the end? When the names started to come up, I had to respect Article 106. The Rules of Procedure which states that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted, in paragraph 1.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15887	And that's exactly the point of the agenda and he explained that point, the way he thinks it's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15888	That's your attitude, my attitude isn't. As for Article 107: “The speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly at the meeting of the National Assembly, ” I do not know in which part I broke it?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15889	I didn't even call for that. You weren't following. I said Article 104 and Article 27.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15890	Article 104: “If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended about a national MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, the President of the Parliamentary Group shall have on behalf of the parliamentary group the right to reply."
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15891	Yes, but what was offensive? That they are members of the Serbian Progressive Party or that they are judges? What's offensive about that? Explain what's offensive about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15892	Because that's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15893	And who are you to claim is it true? You are the chairman, you give the word, you are not the one who determines what is true and what is not.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15894	Okay, here, let's say you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15895	I'm absolutely right and you knew for 20 years that I was right.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15896	Let me finish. Let's just say you're right, and I'm wrong, but my colleague Orlic has the right to say whether or not his colleague Nogo is right.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15897	There isn't. The leg has the right to whisper, it is his right, and who gives you the right to interpret what is true and what is not?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15898	You would like the opposition or the people's MPs who do not support the government to do whatever they want and say whatever they want, and none of the MPs supporting the government can answer them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15899	They can't say what they want, but within their time they can give their opinion and their criticism.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15900	But that's why a fellow MP is entitled to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15901	No, it wasn't mentioned, it wasn't said anything offensive.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15902	Coli Sarovic, according to that same Article 104, estimates the chairman. (Alexandar Martinovic: You estimate it according to the Rules of Procedure. ( b) Article 104 states: “The use of the Law of the 1st Article, 1st and 2nd, is decided by the chairman of the National Assembly. ” You're asking for the Parliament to make a statement in the day of the vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and it will come out. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15903	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask for this voice injury to be heard immediately. Article 103, Article 105, Article 108 and Article 109. Mr Chairman, Article 103 is the basis, and Article 105, and everything is related to Article 108 and Article 109, etc. My friend Krasic, thank you for the soufflation. Item 8. The previous speaker, who was advertised by the Rules of Procedure, used it as a replica, and in accordance with Article 103, Mr. Chairman, I understand that you were once in the same party and that you were a little bit painful, but to apply the Rules of Procedure and to subtract those two minutes from the time of the parliamentary group, because it was an abuse of the advertising of the Rules of Procedure, in order to give a replica. “ No one can speak at the meeting of the National Assembly before asking and receiving a word from the president of the National Assembly, ” says article 105. After completing the advertising of his injury to his former counterpart, Sarovic, he repeatedly took his word from the post, although his exposure to his injury to the Rules of Procedure had been completed. This means that he took the word without your permission, so accordingly, and fellow Sarovic loves those reminders, but I do not insist on it just because he would like it, and you do not allow it, you would have to apply the measure set out in Article 108 and Article 109 because the word was taken without your permission several times, so it threatened to turn this into some dialogue between you two that is not regulated by the Rules of Procedure. With that in mind, I'm asking to vote on this, because I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, but I don't insist. And I don't insist that you give that measure from the article. 108th and 109th.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15904	As I understand it, since you're not asking the National Assembly in voting day to plead, I'm not even obliged to give you an answer to the advertising of the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on to the amendments. (Srdian Nogo: Replica. You don't have the right to a replica. (Srdian Nogo: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. All right, here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15905	Mr. Chairman, you're violating the Rules of Procedure, and more members. First, I will refer to a member who is not mentioned, and that is Article 107, but also Article 107. 103 and 104. Mr. Chairman, article 107 says: “The speaker is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. It is not allowed to address the MP directly to the other MP and to use offensive expressions." Mr Orlic spoke directly to me and used offensive expressions – raw address, stupid, etc. So he used extremely bad and offensive qualifications and commented on my presentation. So as well as how I have the right to respond in accordance with Article 104. A Rules of Procedure, which gives me that right, if I'm misread or mentioned in a negative context. Also, in a negative context, my entire parliamentary group has been mentioned. I beg you, allow me two minutes, on which I am entitled to this Rules of Procedure. You have the right to apply the Rules of Procedure, not to violate it, Mr. Chairman, and to deny here the right to replication. It is no problem for Mr. Orlic to respond to my findings and my claims that I have made and to present some of his answers. But he delivers answers and presents offensive qualifications. I thought you had a duty to warn him. He could have said that what I was saying was false, not saying it was primitive. I'm not a primitive man, nor do I use primitive words in expression. I have to tell you that next time you're applying this Rules of Procedure and you have the same arches. You don't have to treat us equally, because you are still the ruling majority, but keep at least some minimum courtesy to make this parliament look like something. By the way you behave and how you treat the MPs of the opposition, we have no right. What are we supposed to do? That they insult us in every way? Don't let us talk. I'm asking you to allow me my two minutes to respond to Mr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15906	Comrade Nogo, I don't know why you recognized yourself in Orlic's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15907	He spoke directly to me. Are you kidding me? This is pure insolence.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15908	He didn't address you directly, he didn't mention your name, he wasn't even a member of parliament. It's nothing. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15909	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it comes to erasing this member, we have proposed it for a simple reason that it cannot be clear to anyone that someone really thinks that justice can be in Serbia that is trying to establish Aleksandar Martinovic. What is the way and who is in a hurry to put the law into effect the day after the adoption? Whom will these presidents of the courts, as they say in the poll by the judge and the judge, whom will the presidents of the courts in the next period warn and who will be pressured, if this is today a practice, if we know that they have much more authority today and if we know that the party staff of Aleksandr Martinovic allow not only to violate the Constitution, not only to violate the laws, but if someone is obeyed in that position, he will be able to renew his mandate? Is that an independent judiciary? Is it something that puts pressure on an independent judiciary or is it respect for the Constitution and the law where the judiciary must be independent? Does anyone really think that this way they will protect all those who have worked for the past five years so that they have sinned against the law? In five years, does anyone think that in these five years those presidents of the municipalities and those mayors who have sinned against the law will be protected in this way? Does anyone think that any minister in the last five years will be appalled by responsibility, whatever party he came from? Does anyone think that any director of a public enterprise who has been unwittingly robbing Serbia for five years will be protected in this way? I don't think so. I think that's your big delusion. I know you're in a hurry, Mr. Martinovic, and I know it's all funny to you, but it won't be funny to you because...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15910	No direct address, colleague Balsha. Please, here are three minutes, i.e. Two and a half minutes of talking about what you wanted, now talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15911	In five years, laws are being broken, and that's the situation today, Mr. Arsic. The Constitution will be respected from tomorrow. Tomorrow the laws will be respected and what has been done today, and someone will be responsible for that tomorrow. Nobody burned until dawn, so yours won't burn either. You will not be able to manage Serbia in this way, nor to share justice, nor from that place where you sit, nor from any of the presidents of the courts you are trying to appoint or encourage to continue to violate the law and the Constitution and to act only in accordance with the interests of the party in power. It cannot be just that it exists in Serbia by being established by the Serbian Progressive Party by its arches. Justice must exist for everyone or it's gone. It's gone in Serbia today. Today, in Serbia, the most appropriate ones and suffer according to the law are those who have the least, who have not sinned about the law, who generally do not have to pay some of their bills. Today in Serbia, those who do their job honestly and honestly suffer...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15912	Now, let's talk about the presidents of the court, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15913	Well, the presidents of the court are the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15914	What does that have to do with accounts?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15915	Well, the presidents of the court are the subject. Because today, those who do their job with honor and integrity, as soldiers, as police officers, whom one of your fellow parties is trying to set up a criminal record and file criminal charges by the prosecution, tomorrow some president of a court will come and affect the outcome of that trial. It is Dalibor Karanovic, as you well know, from Backa Palanka. Then we're talking about an independent judiciary?- I'm sorry. Then we're talking about a prosecutor's office that you don't have influence on?- I'm sorry. If the judges themselves say that the presidents of the courts are the ones who put pressure on them, then you had to allow for a little wider and better debate and to invite the ministers here, or the minister with the co-workers to discuss the subject, rather than allowing someone to extend their mandate only if they were working in favor of the one who set it up. So who's going to decide about it? Who's going to determine if someone's going to be elected for four years, and then his term of office is restored to four years? Who, Alexander Martinovic? Do you really think that's justice in Serbia? That's ridiculous. I want to tell you that you are free to tell Mr Martinovic to welcome all the ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the directors of public enterprises, the presidents of municipalities and mayors who have wronged the law in these five years. No one will be helped by this measure of empowerment of the President of the Courts who will be able to influence judicial proceedings. None of them. I want to tell you that in some future period, which will be very quick to your great sadness, you will feel on your skin what respect for the law and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15916	Right on line, MP Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15917	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Arsic, I've come forward as a legislator, so I hope I can say a word about the amendments submitted to Article 1. The bill, or did you give me a word based on the replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15918	Based on the replica, because your name was mentioned twice.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15919	All right, then I'll just take a minute. I will welcome, Mr Bozovic, ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia as soon as they return from China. You know, right now they're doing a very important job for the Republic of Serbia, they've got a lot of work to do than listen to you. They are talking to top officials in the Republic of China, talking to Putin, talking to the world's most important statesmen and officials, negotiating important jobs for the Republic of Serbia, negotiating new railways in Belgrade-Budapest, negotiating the construction of the French Corridor, negotiating a road that will bring Serbia together with the Adriatic Sea. They're negotiating everything that you haven't been able to arrange, to realize in 12 years of your reign. I'll say hi to everyone. I will also welcome the Prime Minister who had meetings, to remind you, with Vladimir Putin, with Erdogan and with officials of the Republic of China, one of the world's greatest forces. I will also welcome Zorana Mihajlovic, who signs important contracts regarding our traffic and travel infrastructure. I will also welcome Mladen Sarcevic, who signed a contract with a Chinese counterpart to improve our education system in the Republic of Serbia. I will also welcome Mr Branislav Nedimovic, who contracted the export of huge quantities of meat to the Republic of China. So, I'll welcome all these people, just please, Mr. Bozovic, to wait for people to return from the official path, to bring us good news, and as soon as they return, I'll greet them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15920	According to the Rules of Procedure, Bosko Obradović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15921	Your Honor, I would like to point to the violation of Rule 107. – The speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. In what way has the National Assembly been violated in the presentation of the previous speaker? First of all, the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated by ministers not being present for today's debate, but even more has been violated by Mr Martinovic's saying that ministers have more to do than listen to MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Well, it's the greatest insult to the dignity of the National Assembly. I must, Mr. Chairman, remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I would say by rank under the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because the Government of the Republic of Serbia has not chosen the National Assembly, but the National Assembly has chosen the Government and the Ministers are obliged to submit reports on their work, and they do not do so to the National Assembly and to attend our sessions and to answer our questions. Today we do not have a single minister in this debate and it is not enough yet, and it is not enough to embarrass the current Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it is not enough to take a picture of the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but it is simply a scandal for you, I think that you have had to react and warn the previous speaker that he must not insult the dignity of the National Assembly by claiming, and it is indeed a scandal, that ministers may have a shortcut to work, but rather listen to the MPs. Well, the MPs have chosen them, they can change them. Of course, they have to listen to the MPs. If not all of them can be present, I suppose one authorised representative of the government can be present for this debate. Not a single one, so it's a continuation of the national assembly's dignity and you have to act in that situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15922	Everything you said to your colleague Obradovic would only make sense on one condition. This is Parliament law, it is proposed by an MP, and I don't see what there is for the minister to interfere with our parliamentary work, and you expect them to participate in the debate on the law that we have proposed, we hold a debate and vote on it. Well, what you want to do is humiliate and honor the National Assembly. It's just that executive power interferes exclusively in our business when it's not a proposing. Are you satisfied with the answer or do you want the National Assembly to declare itself in the voting day? (Bosko Obradovic: Of course. All right, we'll get back to you. The word is Saša Radulović, an injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15923	Article 106. – the speaker only has the right to talk about the agenda point. What does China, Fruska Gora have to do with all these things that the MP said? This wasn't a replica, and I would ask you to tell the ruling coalition MPs not to win. So, the agenda point is neither China nor China, nor Fruska Gora, none of the things that MP Martinovic said. I agree with MP Orlic, who said earlier, that the agenda should be discussed here, and then he pointed out to the opposition that he does not respect it and says, "I don't know, one, the other or the third thing." However, the ruling coalition continues to do the same things. Well, show me the examples. If you want to respect the Rules of Procedure, show an example that the Rules of Procedure are respected or allow everyone to speak beyond the agenda. Also, for you to give replicas only to the MPs of the ruling coalition, to deny the replicas to the MPs of the opposition, that the Messenger Orlic tells the Nog that he is primitive, that he speaks primitively, rawly. Well, that's a direct insult. To let MP Risticevic say Sasa Kradulovic or Rasulovic and to say that I see nothing offensive, and to mention the SNS, that is selectivity. Citizens know very well, they feel boastful, self-willful and selective in their skin. Don't do that. So if you give replicas, give replicas to everyone, if you don't give replicas, don't give them. If we're all going to talk about the agenda, I agree with that, then we should all do it, not let the MPs of the ruling coalition do what they want and not let the opposition speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15924	On the subject of counterpart Marijana Risticevic, are you Sasa Kradulovic? Are you Sasa Kradulovic? (Sasa Radulovic: Aren't you ashamed to say that? No, I'm asking you because you said you wanted to because you said you wanted to. And if I gave you a replica, you'd say I'm the same as Marian Risticevic. (Sasa Radulovic: I will use this of yours. Thank you. ( ) As regards Article 106. Rules of Procedure, counterpart Aleksandar Martinovic had the right to replicate the name twice. (Saša Radulovic: He appeared as the legislator. ) Mr Radulovic, let's look at the stenograms, when Mr Martinović asked me if I got (Saša Radulović: Please read the stenogram. No, you read the stenogram. Don't interrupt me. A colleague, Martinovic, asked me if he had received a word as a legislator or a right to replication. I said, right on the line, it's already been 25 seconds. On that basis, I extended his discussion for two minutes and 25 seconds. You can check that out. They were all present, and they listened, they heard. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day about it? (Saša Radulovic: Of course. Of course, well, we'll get to the point. Is there anyone else? Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15925	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Member 103 with regard to Members 106 and 108 and 109. Mr. Chairman, this is why I asked to vote once in the voting day for violation of the right to replication. First you said one false thing, I did not use the term Sasa Kradulovic yesterday, but I said that a certain presidential candidate who won the elections on April 1st, a certain Sasa Rasulovic. Now that someone has used the term Kristicevic, why should I be recognized in that I am not Christicevic. If one of his colleagues recognized it was his problem, but that is no reason to abuse the right of the Rules of Procedure and advertise the Rules of Procedure and use it as a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15926	I understand the injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15927	Wait, there's another injury I would point to, because a colleague before him also spoke, using a replica, and you're asking whether the correct answer that was kept here was that the Assembly was the largest body in the country, and when it came time to establish some law without a government, he's asking the government to come here to control the Assembly. Well, I don't know if, while he was a member of the Chacha library, there was a spokesman there for seven years. You can imagine the Chachana Library had a portfolio, so he missed these sessions so he didn't learn that when proposing legislation by the MPs, the government didn't have to be present. (Sasa Radulovic: Is this a violation of the Rules of Procedure? ) The abuse was committed, and you should have rejected the time set out in Article 8. The only thing that's good, while that fellow priest here can take a break and don't have to keep icons, no one's gonna bite.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15928	I'm setting a break in accordance with Article 112 for five minutes. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will proceed according to the amendments. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15930	Thank you, Your Honor. I wish I'd heard at least one reason why this should be erased. We can argue whether this is a good solution or not, although I don't see any reason, I'm even personally in favor of being five years old so that it can be re-elected. I don't see any reason why someone here can explain themselves in control of the Presidents of the Court. First, it is not said that he will surely be elected in the next term, but may be elected, and whether or not we will see who knows it. Because if the president of the state can be elected, he has the right to run twice, I don't see any reason why the president couldn't. What's the big deal now? So, by itself, the amendment might make sense if at least something was explained. It's getting deleted. I don't know why. On the other hand, when we're here listening to the story of the party justice, tell me sooner or later when it happened that some minister lost the dispute, to lose his case before the court. It's the first time this has happened today in our party justice, where we allegedly control the presidents of the courts. I guess those presidents of the courts would then, if our party staff had updated the few judges and prosecutors to work more efficiently and better, and not that they were objecting to us as SNS and the current government by the people, because we still have this communist syndrome that the government here determines what the verdicts will be and that the authorities are in charge of the judges, so I guess they would have made these judges work in our favor, so those judgments would be more effective, so there would be no charges for certain criminals who are known about what they're doing, because obviously, they can't even come up with evidence, because they were pretty high up in some earlier period, so they knew it was paperwork to cover. I suppose these judges would be engaged in party work, and how dedicated they would be to our benefit. No, something else is going on right now. Our ministers are losing their disputes. Mr. Risticevic, as an MP, lost the dispute as well. I'm sorry, when could this have happened before? Remember, Mr. Arsic, we had a situation where the judge resigned, no longer wanted to be a judge in a previous period, because they gave him the verdict that he said himself, how to rule against Mladic's pillows, right? Not to talk about any other disputes, and even one judge in one big procedure said they dictated to us, so they corrected the verdict, she got a conviction. What are we talking about? Let's not talk about 600 and something judge on God's justice being thrown out of justice and then they're talking about party justice? They have the nerve to talk about party justice, and we read here that the presidents of the municipal committees evaluated, one party, in particular DS in one municipality, in which they specifically elected judges in the Municipality of Vlasotince, the president of the municipal board says who is like him, this one is not like him, this woman was in JUL, this one is undeniable, etc. That's how the judges were elected, and these people are telling us about party justice today. It's a scandal. I'd really like to ask when you're putting up with this amendment and talking about whether you have a party judiciary today, I'm not saying there's always been an impact, unfortunately, the influence of the authorities on the judiciary. It's always happened. But there is no such thing today. Even, look, we don't even have the right to say it, because we're MPs. We don't have the right to comment on court decisions or whether the prosecutor will file charges or not, it's not our job, but I can personally as a citizen still express a great dissatisfaction with the work of the judiciary today. I say it openly. But I have no right to say whether the verdict is good or not. That's how you put pressure on the judiciary. What we're listening to, did the judge make a good decision? Who are you to judge whether the judge made a good decision? I may not like it, but I have no right to speak so publicly. If we respect that tripartite division of power to legislative, executive and judicial, they are independent of each other. We only choose judges here, but we have no right to influence their work and their decisions, and yet we are not competent to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15931	By amendment, MP Bosko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15932	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable fellow MPs, God helps everyone, Aristotle's principle of going to the judge means going to justice, and this new, progressive principle says that going to the judge means going to the SNS, and in this sense it is really problematic to have this whole issue of the law on judges, and therefore, of course, we have suggested that these changes not come with an amendment, that these certain members be deleted, so this Article 1st and the reduction of the length of the term of office to four years and the possibility of re-election and the extension of the term after the retirement conditions are things that question the independence of the judiciary and in various ways affect the party's judiciary in Serbia. But it's not the only problem. There's been a lot of talk here about the influence of the parties on the judiciary, and it's clear that the SNS, which has not yet shown the printcards for 650 judges, which it has joined in its time, has had an impact on at least those 650 judges. If we had seen one printout, so to speak, those judges were no longer members of the SNS, even if they had shown the papers, they would have probably continued to be on the SNS, but imagine they didn't even show the SNS card, 650 judges in Serbia. We ask the question, then, is the judiciary a party? Well, this is the most party judiciary in recent history for the simple reason that judges are still formal and essential members of the SNS. I'm saying again, it's not the only interference on our judiciary. We have other very serious ways of getting involved, which are not sufficiently talked about here. We have an example of a business bank. We have proved to you that judges have privileged loans, which actually corrupt their business banks here in Belgrade. Both judges of the basic courts, and the Supreme Cassation Court, receive VIP loans from business banks, which no one else in Serbia can get. What do you fellow Members of the People's Parliaments think about giving banks such favourable loans to judges because they love them? Or give them credit so they don't judge the damaged banking clients fairly? It's to be judged in the interest of business banks, who rob Serbian citizens. This is your second source of interference with the Serbian judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15933	Col. Obradovic, it's about non-legislators, it's about the presidents of the courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15934	If you'll excuse me, I'll explain very carefully. We're talking about the presidents of the court. Who are the signatories of the contract with the business banks in privileged loaning of judges? The Presidents of the Court. So, the presidents of the courts are working directly with business banks to obtain corrupt favourable loans, which no one else in Serbia can get, in return, to work for banks when a damaged banking client comes to justice with judges. (Alexander Martinovic: Let's show one contract.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15935	First, let me tell you, it's not a subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15936	And what will happen, Martinovic, when I show you?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15937	Secondly, I ask you to exercise your parliamentary right and send a written request to the Anti-Corruption Agency whether the holders of the judicial functions really have such loans because they were obliged to report them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15938	Will you continue to take my time or will you call me when you want to have sex with me?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15939	I'll give you those 30 seconds back. Please continue on the amendment and on the Law on Carriers, or Presidents of the Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15940	So we delivered very precisely the material, personally to the Prime Minister and the new minister of justice with copies of the contracts and how banks therefore corrupt the judiciary in Serbia. We didn't tell an empty story. We delivered evidence. He's not my only party and this banking influence on the judiciary. We also have organised criminal groups that affect the Prosecutor's Office and judges in Serbia. Let me give you another specific example. An example of Zoran Copic, who is rightly convicted of money laundering in Serbia. The only one. It's like he was washing his own money. No one can launder money alone in Serbia. He's got to launder money through business banks, he's got to be protected by some police, he's got to keep some prosecution quiet, some courts, he's got to have some political support so he can launder money from drug trafficking. It is, in fact, a fundamental problem with Serbia's judiciary. How one can be convicted of money laundering and all those with whom he laundered money avoid judicial responsibility.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15941	A colleague of yours, let me remind you. Article 1 you have an opening statement, not to read, the President of the Court of Justice in Article 72, paragraph 1 is amended and reads – the President of the Court is changing to four years and can be re-elected president of the same court. It's an amendment. That article was subject to an amendment to delete it. Please talk about it. We can also talk about this when changes and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering are made. Please speak of Article 1 that you have submitted to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15942	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, you're very kind. I am the only MP you have interrupted during his speech at today's session, and have practically prevented me from discussing this item of the agenda and that I have my own opinion on this matter. While others could talk about whatever they wanted and plus you took my time, but you promised to make it up to me, which is correct on your part.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15943	I'll make it up to you in a minute. You see, my colleague Obradovic, I am very tolerated and I am letting MPs widely interpret what the agenda is, and you have not been able to fit in with such a broad interpretation of the agenda. I can't help you with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15944	Thanks again. The presidents of the courts, which you mention as the item of the agenda, are in fact the main source of corruption in courts and are the source of influence and interference by the parties, by criminal organised groups, by business banks and by foreigners, who, for example, are funding certain courts in Serbia and certain prosecutors in Serbia. It's really an amazing question. Have you ever thought about that, fellow MPs? Is there a state allowed to allow itself to have its prosecutions and courts funded by foreign states or foreign NGOs? Whether certain prosecutions and courts for some fictitious or actual war crimes can objectively and impartially judge if they are funded, I repeat, not by this state but by foreign states. Of course, the question and responsibilities of these prosecutors, who may not have carried out this procedure well to prove the guilt of Ramosh Haradinaj, are then raised, so have we ever asked the question of the responsibilities of those who may not have carried out a certain procedure to determine the responsibility of Ramosh Haradinaj, before the French courts. You see, considering that Tony Blair is an adviser to the government of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic. (exclusive microphone)
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15945	You've really gone too far now. I was trying to be a tolerance and allowed you to interpret very widely the amendment you yourself have written, which only has two words to be deleted. I don't mind, right away, but you're headed for the presidents of the courts, it's about the term of office of the president of the courts, and not about the presidents of the courts, so you're going after the public prosecutors, so you're going to the government, and you're still worried about why these NGOs, which are made up of public prosecutorial officials and judicial officials, are receiving funds from abroad. And I'm worried because the most attacks on the SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and you're just saying what they told you to say. They're the ones who put pressure on the public information funds. (Srdian Nogo, come down and turn away.) I'm just explaining why I interrupted Mr. Bosko Obradovic. Do you mind? So, I'm asking you to talk about the term of office of the President of the Court. Here, eight minutes you've been saying, 45 seconds you haven't been on the agenda, a minute I give you back what I took from you, and that means seven minutes. Please speak at least one minute per agenda item and the amendment under discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15946	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really appreciate you as a polemist and I'd like to take you with me, but when you want to break down with me, you have to go down to the congregation benches. You can't get out of the presidency position. By the way, I'd very much like to talk to you. So, let's finish this first part of our exposure. The presidents of the courts we are talking about are the basis and source of corruption in the Serbian judiciary. Hiding evidence causes the removal of evidence from court cases. Why did we propose this amendment? Because the proposed amendment is just protecting the constitutional principle of independence and independence of the judiciary, as well as the principle of independence of the judiciary, since the Presidents of the Courts as elders and executives in the affairs of judicial practice must have a unilateral legal treatment regarding the duration of the term of office. If you'd read our explanation of the amendment, you'd have answered a very simple question and you wouldn't need to flaunt anything with me. So we've already written to you. I am now just further explaining to you why we wrote to you in the explanation of the amendments that this raises the independence of the judge's office, which is already at stake by the influence of parties, business banks, foreigners and, of course, organised criminal groups. All those who are practically in front of Serbian courts in the previous period, especially during the SNS rule period, who won the elections in the story of fighting crime and corruption, accused of the most serious crimes and corruption are now at large. You can't do it for a year, ever since I asked you to give me an example of a final court ruling...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15947	Comrade Obradich, you're out of the picture again.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15948	So, Mr. Chairman, here's to the end of giving me a final court case with a judicial verdict based on which a tycoon or a politician who robbed Serbia in the previous 27 years is on years' imprisonment in Serbia's prisons, and I have no further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15949	Mr. Obradich, you're asking me to do the judge's job. I can't think of that. (Alexander Martinovic: Goran Novakovic. I think there's a Goran Novakovic from Novi Sad. (Radoslav Milojic: He is not in prison. He asked for a judicial verdict. According to the Rules of Procedure, Marijan Risticevic first reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15950	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, here's another breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's these fine, educated, cultural ones, those representing Sasa Jankovic here, so their public defender, their presidential candidate turned his back on the citizens, but I'm advertising the Rules of Procedure. Say hello to Saša Jankovic, Pranjasevic, or whatever his last name is. Please, I'm advocating damage to members 106, 107 and 109. The dignity of the National Assembly was severely injured, especially us who had nothing to do with privatisation and a certain person named Zoran Ćopić Ćopa. Aristotle, quoted here, said: “I like Plato, but I prefer the truth. ” So I'm a fan of the Chapanese library, longtime, I don't know what it was for, but the truth is even more dear to me, and I think that's why it hurt the dignity of the National Assembly. He said something to us about the Coop, and he acquired capital and the Rolling Beds Industry bought it during the government of his coalition partner, so he bought sugar in Sremska Mitrovica during the government of his coalition partner who accumulated the money and thanks to that money that got from the Coop today he placed himself here in parliament and was rudely violated by the dignity of the National Assembly and with this in connection, given that you repeatedly warned him that he did not follow what you said to him, in accordance with Article 109, I ask you to give him a note to the underparadise of the Chačan library, ex, ex, formerly, and if I respect your pain, I do not want to, I have an understanding and do not ask to be asked to take this vote at the meeting of the National Assembly. I will finish again with Aristotle: “The roots of learning are bitter, but the fruits are sweet” and therefore I recommend that my colleague finally learn something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15951	The word is made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15952	Thank you, Chairman. A member of 109, and you really had to react to that, to give a warning to the MP. You had to give him a warning because, despite your warning, he kept talking about a point that wasn't on the agenda and used offensive terms. You know, someone here accused the judges of being a mobster, crime, corruption, and I don't know what. You also insult the congregation because we choose these people. It's a scandal that someone, whatever anyone thinks of them, uses such terrible expressions. It shows us how he would run the state, because he asks, imagine, the power that the tycoon is condemned. Well, people, this isn't Tito's period, it's not communist decisions being made in the Alliance to judge someone, it's being done in courts, and it's proof that they're leading the state. They would make judgments in cabinets, not in courts. That's the key difference between us and them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15953	I understand, my colleague Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15954	Mr. Arsic, since the gentleman said our judges were corrupt, I ask you, did the criminal judge who brought the verdict against Mr. Stefanovic? Is that a criminal then? Well, someone should be ashamed, and you're supposed to give him a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15955	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic asked for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15956	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm advertising article 100. If you wish to settle with the MPs, you must leave the chair seat and come down among the MPs. Is it possible that you are allowing yourself to be commanded and issued by Martinovic from his post what you should do, to whom you should take away the word, to whom you should give the word? I just can't believe it. I sit here all day and see how Mr. Martinovic behaves. I am sorry that viewers can't see it either, that he and you and Mrs Gojkovic and anyone who holds the presidency and Mr. Djordž Milicevic is in command of the SNS's post when you have to give the word to, to whom you need to take the word and how you should behave. I hope you're a serious man and if there were some, Martinovic wouldn't be sitting here at all, let alone issuing directives like what he's supposed to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15957	Just a moment to talk to my colleague Milojicic. Since he was talking about me, I didn't want to give him a warning, that someone was ordering me to do what I'm gonna do here. It can give suggestions, it can't order, and I'm making decisions and because you know very well that it is, it's your shame for what you just said and I won't discuss it anymore. As for the violation of article 100, I explained why I interrupted Mr. Obradovic in his presentation and begged him to return to the topic and point of the agenda or do you want me to say – you are not in the topic and to turn off the microphone? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Nogo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15958	The Rules of Procedure have been injured, of course, by a large number of members, but let's also mention two that have not been mentioned so far on 27 and 103, and I am also joining the mention of Members 106 and some other members, since, Mr. Chairman, you are taking care of the order at the session, and also, in the case of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, you are making sure that the infringement of the Rules of Procedure is applied. So here you allowed the ruling majority's MPs to replicate the MPs who had spoken before them through the form of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you also tolerated that while Mr. Obradovic was exhibiting all the time, there was a bitter controversy and a throw-off by MPs, above all the authorities, and even I was responding to the MPs of the ruling majority, instead of then reacting and warning them, both myself and some other opposition MPs, and simply returning to some order of normal functioning and normal communication. I would also like to say that given these throws and what you allow and tolerate and that you have allowed your colleague Risticevic to violate Article 103. The Serbian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, that Mr. Copic, why do you not demand Mr. Copic's extradition to serve his sentence here in Belgrade, but rather let him walk in Banja Luka? And we're just about to tell the IKL workers that this building of theirs is being sold where Green Garden is being made in Palila and who took the money. We are also obliged to tell the workers "dranja" that Ćopić, along with Goran Novakovic, for which neither was convicted, ruined the company and turned it into an icy where the hypermarket was built. We owe both sugars in Zrenjanin, not only in Sremska Mitrovica. I played video here. The D.A.'s office should call me and have me prosecute me, which is why I'm threatening a serious prison sentence because I'm giving away the state's secret. But I also owe a gift to Mr. Orlic and Mr. Martinovic. You have a gift from me. The "Afer" that Vukic funded and founded for 50,000 euros published parts of the stenograms that I am publishing. Also, you sent all the media, published on 8 March 2014, SNS, your premises, sent to the media. I'll prove to you the judge's contracts, as I've already shown you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15959	Now, Mr. Nogo, since you asked...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15960	Let me just give Mr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15961	Just give it to him. You have just misused the right to injure Rule 107, so in accordance with article 109, I give you a warning...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15962	Just me and the others?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15963	... And I'm applying, just to see...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15964	Take my word for it, that's the best.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15965	Article 103.St. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, two minutes is taken from the time of your parliamentary group, with a warning. Does anyone else want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15966	Member of 107th to the speech of MP Rističević. It continues to use expressions, let's say, the last one, very similar to that of Sasha the thief and Sasha the wrecker, we have the great-grandmother and you allow it. Here, as if you were establishing a new practice, so you say – how do you know it applies to you? Well, imagine if I were to speak now, extremely immature, children's, to say that this law was proposed by Mudoljub Martinovic, on the order of the theft of Vukic, that the assembly is chaired by the falseist Arsic, and that the circus is making the false love of Risticevic. What would that look like? Examine, please, this is how you conduct the session. Well, we don't want to call MPs in this kind of childlike manner at the National Assembly. Do you want all MPs of the opposition to use this infancy rule that you want to establish and call others in these ways? Please get serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15967	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by the MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15968	Mr. Chairman, 112. We've been using it today, but I'm afraid it's not enough, and we're gonna have to re-use some hot heads here a little bit. Article 112 gives you the right to set a break even for a few seconds, but it's clear that some of whom here obviously need to be added up a little bit and put in order. Why do I think a break is necessary? No, just because they're waving at business on the other side of the hall just to keep the system alive, Todor lets me hear a speech, everyone blows off, so they say whatever they want, including those who get it right now, and those who get angry when they're told that their behavior is raw, and they can't correct it and change it. It would also be helpful to pause because the Internet moves with 1% and 2% of the election results are trying to explain to us that the Rules of Procedure do not know. We're not obliged to listen to their arguments and their arguments. What they don't know, that's their problem. That's why I think it'd be a nice couple of seconds off. Next, to give us evidence of what we're saying, that from the tabloids, they're supplied with information, information, e.g. From the content that an Emma without makeup is a pale housewife. Now, that's the level of discussion, discussion and everything that's going on here. And that's why I'm taking a break. Something else, also important, a break because some who here boast that some things do infantilely, should also keep it to themselves, not to burden the National Assembly, and therefore a few seconds would do, Mr. Chairman. One more thing, as far as the story of the directives is concerned, don't let those who work on cheerleading get up here and talk about these things to us. So, if they have to, let them get together, and during that break that you'll hopefully give, drink some sugar, some water, together, they'll certainly do them good, and they'll do them good. And those who don't know what's going on here today, in the meantime, supply information, arm knowledge, so they can discuss. If they haven't been able to prepare for the session because they were in Bleiburg this weekend, I understand, but... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15969	Two minutes, Mr. Orlic. We will no longer use the right of Article 112. We used that right. Now we're going to use the right of Article 109. Rules of Procedure, so that we can bring the Rules of Procedure in session and order. Anyone else want a word by amendment? The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15970	So it's a member of the law that introduces a change, that the president is courting instead of one term of five years and without the right to a second term, that the provision changes from two mandates to four years. I agree with MP Orlic, who said in his discussion that practically nothing has changed since what was so far, or the judiciary has been destroyed before, before they came to power, and continued in the same way. So, I really agree with that assessment. But our job here is to change things and change things for the better. Having made a catastrophic reform of the judiciary in 2009 does not mean that the new ruling majority should now do the same and worse things. The profession has said clearly about this, and the society of judges and all the judges of integrity, that this is one wrong decision, that is, to make two terms for the president of the court is the wrong political decision. The fact that judges had chosen politically and had been a political influence on them doesn't change anything about the fact that we needed a change, not a continuity with what was before. So, the profession says this -- it takes relativisation of the role of the president of the court, not strengthening the role, but relativisation. So here the question is, like -- how do we make two mandates, how will it open up a bigger space for political influence on judges? Well, in fact, this one decision gives the ruling majority, and in Serbia it is well known that citizens know that anyone who gets hold of the authorities thinks that they will remain in power forever, and then gives themselves the opportunity to reward or punish a judge, depending on their obedience to power. The President of the Court is the fastest bond between the judiciary and the executive authority. The Society of Judges makes it clear that the biggest, or most important, pressure channel against judges goes through the President of the Courts, 44% of those who are asked say that this is the case, while the vast majority, the number is not given to us, is not at all stated, or does not want to answer this question out of fear. This is why this is just wrong. This shouldn't be done. The profession tells us this shouldn't be done. What it needs to be for the President of the Court is to be the first among the equals, not to be privileged in this way, and we'll see when we get to Articles 2 and 3, what that privilege now looks like to the presidents of the court. Let's change this. Let's finally make one out of how Serbia's judiciary works out of a weekend. Let's try to achieve an independent judiciary once. So, the President of the Court should be the first among the equals, should not be given a privileged position and should not be in a situation where it can meet the political majority's orders and thus be elected further as the President of the Court of Justice and be given the privileges that we will see in Articles 2 and 3. A bill of this law. In particular, there is an amendment, which we will talk about later. So, again, we need to relativise the role of President of the Court, not strengthen the role of President of the Court. Accordingly, this amendment should be accepted, in fact, by the ruling majority to withdraw this proposal as a whole, and it is little, really, to run away from the responsibility that the government is not proposing the law, but rather to use the MP who is going to do this. The question we have in the election of the President of the Courts, and this is what MP Orlic said, the law is what it is, the Constitution is what it is and the political elections are made both by the presidents of judges and courts. When I say political, I mean the Assembly. Because the ruling majority who vote the bells, I'll remind you, vote this. So this is not a free debate of MPs, it's simply a warrant of a party in power. The second thing, from which it is quite clear that this is so, we also have a proposal for the presidents of the courts that is part of this agenda, in which we cannot conclude anything from the biographies that we have been given, since there are no results of the work of these judges based on which MPs could ever bring...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15971	My colleague Radulovich, but that's not the subject anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15972	... Whether to choose someone or not. Therefore, it is clear that judges are elected politically. That needs to be changed. The way to change this is to change the law that would be good, not to go through the Assembly, but to have judges choose and give a big and rich explanation to MPs who would then confirm it along with the results of the work. Since this is not happening, we have political courts today, the citizens know, of course, the same as we had in the past, but I guess the ruling majority wants to boast that she fixed some things, not that things remain the same as Parliamentarian Orlic explained nicely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15973	Thank you. Right on line, MP Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15974	If this massive round of applause is finished, according to the song – tamburo boy in tamburo. Right? It's a little unusual that this is where the argument begins, we need to change what's wrong, not leave what's wrong, and the proposal that's being supported, the amendment that's being supported should go exactly in the direction that it is, not to adopt the changes and the additions, but to keep it the way it is. Does that sound like it makes sense? And one thing and the other, one sentence and this other act at the same time, hard. As far as privilege goes, let's do it one more time, what does re-election mean? Potential. Is it clear in advance who will act and who will plead in that reelection? No, I don't. So everything anyone complains about, at least in theory, even if it's vengeful, it's just supposed to be fixed in practice, through the actions of the judges, if he wants to be re-elected tomorrow. He doesn't know who's gonna do it. No one can say that in advance. What's anyone hoping for? It's his personal matter. But if he wants to be re-elected, the judge has to make sure he's got a great impression on everyone and he'll have it in the future. Is that hard to understand? If it's hard to understand, then I have to say - I can see why it's happening in this room and why it's being discussed and such terrible arguments are being made. Then I understand why, as a consequence, you get one percent of the votes in the election, why you get less than there are invalid ballots. Ends that song, that strofu with words – tambourine of dry gold, probably gold paid for by dollars, but the result is a tampering into empty and nothing but that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15975	According to the Rules of Procedure? Ask for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15976	Injured Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. I'll tell you again what the speaker said. Tamburo boy in tambourine, hot heads, raw, primitive, this is an insult. These things should not be presented in the congregation. Also, injured, of course, and a member of 106 where the speaker spoke about things that had nothing to do with the agenda. He'd like to talk about presidential elections, this, this, that, I don't know, this is obviously citizens, the source of all this you're the chairman. Then I should use these expressions to go back to the Infantile Characterizations of the type of falseoljub Arsic, lieoljub Risticevic, theft of Vukic, blatoljub Martinovic. So you have to stop this. This is not worthy of this House. Warn the messengers not to speak tambourine, lad, hot heads, raw, primitive when speaking to the messengers. It's not appropriate for this House and the guilty is the chairman who allows this behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15977	First I have to answer you, pal. A fellow Orlic spoke from the right to the line, and he quoted a song. Now, it's true, you're right, colleague Radulovic, I am the most guilty of the situation in the National Assembly, because as soon as you leave, at least a little bit, from the agenda topic, I should have stopped you, every MP. If that's not enough, then turn off the microphone. If that's not enough, then let's go for a heads-up. If that's how you want me to run a session or, let's say, you're telling the truth, you're making proposals that don't make sense, and I'm interrupting it like you ever said -- let the judges propose candidates for the new judges, the presidents of the courts, so now it's not the Society of Judges, it's the Supreme Council of the Judiciary. Who's there? Judge. I didn't want to interrupt you for that. Please, from now on, I won't be so tolerated anymore. It's been 12 hours, and we haven't removed from the first amendment. The word has been made by MP Sasa Radulovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15978	I'll explain it one more time, because in this discussion of Parliamentarian Orlic, there were a lot of insults and he said some things about matter, and I'd talk about it, and somehow we'd get away with these insults that the chairman is funny. When you take two terms of office for the President of the Court, you practically gave the political majority a tool to reward and punish the President of the Court depending on his conduct in cases. When you combine it with the fact that the presidents of the courts are the most important tool of pressure on judges, you get these levers of political pressure on the court. So we need to make a move for the better, not for the worse. This shift, or this change of law, as you've made it, is a shift up, and we need for the better. This is a simple logic. I will not plead to the logic of Ambassador Orlic because it is inappropriate. We're talking about the agenda point. So, an explanation, I'll repeat it once again, when you do this, you've given the political majority a tool to influence and set up and resolve judges. You have strengthened the role of the president of the court because he can uninterruptedly violate all the rules, create an unauthorized influence on the judges, as they report it. That's what the waist says. So that's what the judge's company is telling you about. 15/3TJ/VK (Vladimir Orlic: Who says that? Let's hear your question so I can answer it. Say it louder.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15979	Please, colleague Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15980	You're on your way to ask, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15981	Go on, fellow Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15982	No, Mr. Orlic asked me to let him go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15983	He's not asking you anything. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15984	So you pulled the question. Since the presidents of the courts influence the judges directly to judge one way or another, they make decisions to take the judges off the case, put another judge, determine who gets the case, manage the files, a lot of things, and that's actually the center of corruption within the judges. With the right profession, he says there is a need to revitalise the role of the President of the Court, not a strengthening, in which he is given privileges to which I will speak when he is a member. The 2nd and 3rd law on the agenda, gets privileges and becomes protected and the political majority also has carrots and beatings, in case that the president of the court does or does not do his job the way the party's majority wants it to. So, to underline, the presidents of the courts are the main instrument of influence on judges and on the work of judges in the judiciary and have a direct bond with the executive authority. Therefore, the profession says, the society of judges, all the judges of credibility, that this is the wrong path and step back, not a step forward from where we would like to get, which is, I hope, all the goals – independent justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15985	The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Micin.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15986	I thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that the amendment is not acceptable, because I believe the law is good, since I believe that by extending the term of office of the President of the Court, the quality and efficiency of the work of the courts will be increased. Today we could hear from a representative of the former qualification regime for this law, so let's say it's a brutal interference in the judiciary, that the presidents of the courts are people whose mandate is extended because most of them owe them something, so if someone is obedient, they'll have an extended mandate, etc. What's that? It's actually their auto-projection. And now I'm going to tell you why it's an auto projection. For example, this shows the 2010 European Commission report, which assessed their reform of the judiciary they conducted, and says: "The re-election process of judges and prosecutors has been carried out in a non-transparent manner, putting the principle of independence of judges at risk. “ The bodies responsible for this process – the High Council of the Judiciary and the State’s Major Prosecutors, worked in the provisional composition, which means that this profession was not properly presented and that the risk of political pressure was high. In addition, not all members have been appointed to the Council or the Council, objective re-election criteria have not been applied, established in close co-operation with the Venice Council of Europe Commission. Judges and prosecutors were not given an opportunity to be heard during the proceedings and were not given adequate arguments for solutions. Those who were candidates for the first time, 876 judges and deputy prosecutors, were appointed without holding talks with them and applying merit-based criteria. The total number of judges and prosecutors has not been reliably calculated and has been corrected several times since the re-election has already been made. Judges who have not been re-elected could only appeal to the Constitutional Court, and this court does not have the capacity to fully consider solutions, and watch this – of more than 1,500 complaints, only one case has been resolved. In this case, the Constitutional Court for procedural reasons annulled the original solution. Well, that's what the judiciary looked like before 2012, gentlemen, and they found out they were criticizing us. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15987	According to the amendment, MP Nedjo Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15988	I thank you, Chairman. I think it's about time that anyone who speaks here takes care of the word spoken. As far as this is concerned, I must first of all point to a very dangerous phenomenon that has manifested itself today in this House, which is the phenomenon that the motives that point to the collapse of the judiciary appear. One fact has been pointed out that the President of the Court is the first among the equal and that it needs to be relativeised. And that's what those who are absolute laymen, who have absolutely nothing to do with the legal profession, and especially not with the profession that binds to the holders of judicial functions. The term – the first among the equals is a very relative term, and the President of the Court by his capacity is significantly above that relative concept. It's way above. If the first is among the equal, which is why the law gives him an extremely large responsibility, an immeasurably large responsibility, the responsibility not to come out of his court decisions that are contrary to the law, the responsibility that the work organisation in the court is successfully established, the responsibility that the departments in the court are set up, the responsibility that one judge cannot be in charge with 500 or thousands of cases, and the other with 20, the responsibility not to come out of the case-laws that are different, although they are from the same court, which suggests the unification of the case-law? It's the responsibility of the President of the Court. Then why is he the first among the equals? He is greater than that, the first among the equal. Secondly, it is responsible for the material-financial situation in court, and it is in full capacity. No one else is responsible except for how the court is doing financial business, because it accounts for which it has not taken action if anything is done in court that is contrary to the Rules of Procedure on Labour and Rules and Financial Business. Then why is he the one to be relativated? Are we going to introduce anarchy into the justice system? Shall we bring anarchy into the courts? That's why I say the word spoken is dangerous, because in public opinion it is now created by an odyssey towards a full judiciary, very negative. And that's the goal. Obviously, that's the goal. And such a goal must not be set here. The presidents were said to be the source of corruption. Be careful - the presidents. There are over 100 in Serbia, close to 150, the president of the courts. Is that what it means to conduct generalization that they're all corrupt, that all of the perpetrators of the illegal act containing the markings of the crimes? My people, these are extremely difficult words, not just insults, but something that can be very dangerous. There's talk of the fact that she's told the expert that the President of the Court is having an impact. The waist said it. What waist? I personally feel offended and hurt because I'm part of that profession as a lawyer. Come on, somebody tell me where, by name and last name, the President of the Court is in any way under the influence of making any decision or affecting any decision. Does this mean that members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary or the State Council of Prosecutors, who have just chosen these judges, should be insulted here? Dear colleagues, MPs, I think this debate has come out of the context of what is meant not only by the agenda, but from what we must take into account when we speak in this House. In the end, I want to point out something else that seems very important to me. When we supported the amendments and additions of the Law, proposed by Mr. National MP Martinović, proposed and put on the agenda, we had one motive, which is to improve the quality of work in courts. Can anyone dispute the fact that there are a large number of court presidents who have managed to organise court affairs in the best possible way, who have managed to contribute to the unification of judicial practice, who have managed to get the Belgrade Commercial Court of Appeal to lead... Nemanja Sarovic: Who are they? ) The Business Court of Appeals in Belgrade, Mr. Sarovic, headed by former President Miroslav Nikolic, hopefully a new president, who will soon be elected. Furthermore, I want to point out that what causes ridicule in others, for me is respect, and that is respect for all those presidents of the courts who have managed to place the courts on healthy feet and that judges in those courts are doing a job in a safe, responsible, professional and independent manner. The judge is dependent only on the law. He just can't be independent of the law. The only rule of law is the restriction that means the responsibility of the judges, in all other things the judge is independent. As for calling whether something is constitutional or not, the decision will be made, eventually, by the Constitutional Court, and whether or not we will see it. Mr Krasic has expressed his position, for me he, professionally, challenges certain, of course, professional thinking, but I am not the judge of the Constitutional Court, nor do I have the right to assess anything that implies whether something is constitutional or not. In any case, I must remind myself that in practice we have situations where they are extended in many professions of status when it comes to working age, both professors and doctors and many others. No one reacted to that. Now that we are motivated to contribute to the work and to improve the work of the judiciary, that question is now being raised. Of course, everyone has the right to ask that question, and I will not deny it to anyone, but all the amendments that are motivated in the way I've put it now obviously do not have a good motivation, or should not be accepted because the goal is quite the opposite of what we want to achieve. Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15989	Based on what, colleague Sarovic? (Nemanja Sarovic: He said – "Mr. Sarovic. “ He mentioned me negatively. You have no right to a replica. You don't, because you threw. You have the right to a warning. Nemanja Sarovic: I am right. He also said: "Mr Krasic. “ You have the right to a reminder. Petar Petrovic, MP. Nemanja Sarovic: What are they saying? I said, you threw your colleagues while he was talking, so you have the right to a warning. Nemanja Sarovic: He shouldn't have responded. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15990	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, coming to this assembly this morning, I had no intention of taking part in the debate. However, many colleagues and colleagues have encouraged me to take part in the debate so far, to present a series of facts, to evaluate, to interpret, to take part in this debate. First, in many ways, he would repeat himself with a respected colleague, Jovanovic, who spoke about judges, honesty, the work of the court, etc., the president of the court, so I would not take the time. But what is particularly surprising to me is the courage of certain MPs that, freely, I can say, 99% of the president of the courts calls corrupt people, people ready to do dishonest acts, etc., without any evidence, without any fact that someone in any court of law or morals has done an act somewhere in any court of law or jurisdiction. It speaks more of those who say it, not of those to whom it should apply. In Serbia today, there is one rule, which is that we all know that we are football selectors and that we determine the tactics of a football game and that we judge and judge and determine who is right and who is wrong when it comes to making a court decision whether in the first or the second degree. I can responsibly say that since I have been a member of the High Council of the Judiciary for many years, we are here talking about the Presidents of the Court, that this authority, when considering the application of candidates for the vacancy of the President of the Court, is responsibly considering all these applications and, on the basis of the results of the work and work done so far as the judge is about to identify which of the candidates will propose to the National Assembly that he be eventually elected president of a court. I can tell you that in practice so far, it hasn't happened that some candidate who doesn't have results can pass. On the other hand, the National Assembly in the voting day will decide whether to trust or not to administer a court. Not to forget to say that 33 amendments have come to this bill, that only one amendment has been accepted by the Proposer. The committee also accepted the amendment, and the other amendments suggested that the Assembly not accept them. On the other hand, there was also an opinion here, an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, the Law on Judges, etc., that one of the Government must be present to discuss amendments and additions to this law. It is a basic or deliberate ignorance or really ignorance of certain regulations, or Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Each MP has the right to propose amendments to a law or to propose a completely new text of a law. Also, every MP, including my little one, has the right to propose an amendment to the proposed amendments and amendments to the law or to the proposed text of the law. It is the one who will accept or will not accept the amendment, and the final word will be given by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. There are even names mentioned here that this law, namely to amend and supplement the law called Pere, Mike, or Wicca. I wouldn't engage in such comments. It is at least the right of someone to call a bill the name of a judge or president of a court who is in that position or should be in that position. In 2013, as it is said, we made a new law on judges, and then we limited the duration of the term of office of the president of the courts to five years, but the practice showed and Dr Martinovic saw well, and we from the majority accepted it, that this is not the best solution. It simply came to the conclusion that these presidents of the courts should be allowed if they have earned and contributed to the work of the authorities at which they are headed, to run for another office of the President of the Court, but at the same time no one guarantees that they will be re-elected. Work and the results of the work will be a measure of whether some president of the court to whom the term of office stands will be re-elected or chosen by some of his former work, some against the candidates, and will be elected president of the court. What should be done, respected and respected colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, you know, in many courts sometimes there are no candidates from these courts who wish or assess that they are able to be presidents of the courts, so they resort to being elected judges from directly senior courts for the presidents of these lower courts. So much for running after the President of the Court. In the end, when it comes to the influence of the President of the Court. I've been in the judiciary a long time, and I can't believe some people don't know basics. The President of the Court cannot direct any case, any lawsuit or appeal against a particular judge because it goes all electronically, secretly, etc. So that the officer who puts all the cases into the system would be eager to be called by the president of the court and said – the lawsuit or the complaint by Mike Mikic directed towards that and that court. Well, he'd have it forever. I claim that in Serbia, you can laugh as much as you want, but that is true, there is no President of the Court who has the courage to call on the officials and say – this and this case is directed towards this and that court, and you are justified in disputing me, and especially do not ask that you laugh and talk about the justice that you did at the 2010 Serbian judiciary. (Radoslav Milojic): You were in the coalition then. ) True, but take the discussion there and you'll see who's for what and how he talks. Would you like me to show you, since I'm keeping these memos, I have gentlemen of the People's Parliament... .
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15991	My colleague Petrovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15992	... where certain municipal and county committees of some parties have come from some letters with the following text – we think or have an attitude that this and that should be elected judge or that this and that should not be elected judge... I don't want to mention to the party that you're not offended.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15993	Comrade Petrovich, please. It's not a replica. You're talking about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15994	Let me get this straight. The JS parliamentary group will support the amendment and the addition of the Law on Judges with the Amendment accepted, and I hope that this way the National Assembly will contribute to making the Serbian judiciary work even better, even more efficiently, to make it even more fair and forget all the wounds that have been inflicted on us by some who have claimed that history begins with them. Thank you. Nemanja Sarovic: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15995	I can't hear my colleague Sarovic. According to the Rules of Procedure? (Radoslav Milojic: Rules of Procedure. And you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15996	Mr Arsic, an injured member of 107, who says that the speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect dignity and was injured by Mr Petrovic, who when he said - do not talk about judicial reform by you who destroyed him by reform in 2009. He had to say correctly – do not talk to those with whom he destroyed the justice system from 2009.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15997	We've finished our colleague, Sarovic. Well, not anymore. Well, you can't do political speeches through a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15998	That's true, it's an insult to the dignity of the congregation. And you think that's hurt dignity? Nothing's been hurt.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u15999	By amendment? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, The word has the People's Messenger Vladimir Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16000	This time, the basis for the publication of discussions under the amendment and, I sincerely hope, we conclude and sum up our impressions on Article 1. I sincerely hope this is going on this morning. I wanted to point out that first of all, I respect the proposals and explanations given by the amendment and supplemental promoter. On the other hand, I am not yet convinced that those who are in favour of erasing this article of the bill know exactly what they want or at least what they want it to be. I'm not sure, and now maybe just two or three more notes, and I don't mean the third round of the same song with the tampering in the blank, we're sure to listen to the days and who knows how many more times. We'll answer when it's done. So this is how when someone asks to delete a member, and it makes an argument that this solution is too late, so it doesn't say it's bad, but it's too late, and then obviously it tells us here -- it's not against him. He talks against him just to talk. I think that says enough about the firmness of the arguments, when someone here is discussing whether or not the presidents of the court can influence the court or perhaps they should be completely management functions. That's not the point. So let's do it one more time - the issue of the term of office. And if we're going to talk about it, but let's not talk about it today, it's absolutely impossible to treat the court as a company, so introduce professional functions. So it's not a topic, and there's nothing to say at this session with these proposals or in that context. What's the point? Once again, I agree with my colleague Jovanovic, it is clearly the goal here to challenge a certain impression of people who are watching this and when it comes to the impression of our institutions, but when it comes to those empty stories, floscules and political marketing, whom, unfortunately, we attend here whenever someone on the other side of the hall answers their words, gets up and whatever it tells us here. But if continuity is in this process and continuity is in the results, then they will again have one percent in the election, two percent in the election, five at best.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16001	Mr. Orlic, please, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16002	That's not why we accept this amendment, so I'm calling on us not to accept it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16003	According to the amendment, the word has been issued by MP Gjorge Vukadinovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Nemanja Sarovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16004	Mr Arsic, a member of 107 has been injured in an act that says that the MP has the right to orally point to a breach in the conduct of the president, that he should specify a member of the Rules of Procedure who has been injured and that he has two minutes to explain. You wouldn't let me do that. The second thing again, Mr. Orlic violates the dignity of the National Assembly. He said, if you didn't listen carefully to the stenogram, that whenever someone on the opposite side of the hall picks up, we get an empty speech, we get flossules, tampering in blanks, etc. In this way, he demeaned all MPs who sit in the opposite part of the congregation’s hall compared to him and you. Then it's not a tampering in the blank. Is this argument in line with the first member of the law we are currently discussing? Is that a legal argument? Is that a logical argument? What kind of argument is that? Or is that demeaning? It's purely demeaning and you've allowed it. You just made another big mistake. During his presentation, Mr. Neđo Jovanovic named the judge, cited the function, cited which court, had the name of the man and said – it works well. Neđe Jovanovic as a lawyer and as a MP from the ruling coalition in the assembly debate has named him as a good judge, who is not, who is a good judge, who is not and you claim that there is no influence. How will this president of the court resent Neđi Jovanovic or someone else or everyone else will think – let us be cooperative too, that in the next debate we also praise Neđo Jovanovic or someone else from the ruling coalition, so that I may qualify for that second term?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16005	Please, colleagues, I think you're starting to exaggerate in some things, all a little bit. Who can say if a candidate is good or bad, if not a MP? Would you like to make a statement about the injury? Yes, you do. It's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16006	Mr. Arsic, you're taking away my right to plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16007	I said you would, you shouldn't. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16008	Thank you, Chairman. The same practice of insulting MPs continues, tampering with empty, political marketing. Let's get back to the subject, because insults really don't solve anything. Citizens look and wonder.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16009	Don't do my job, Mr. Radulovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16010	We can disagree on something, but not insult ourselves. These amendments to the law and this Article 1 strengthens the role of the President of the Court. The profession says judges say a relativisation of the role of the president of the court is needed. Also, the profession says that the presidents of the courts are the main instrument of influence on judges, i.e. the main source of pressure on judges to judge one way or another. I appreciate that an esteemed JS colleague thinks that this is not the case, but the citizens disagree because they know in what way the presidents of the courts cheer and dress in courts and practically get a stronger position from which they can do so and get a political reward from those in power at a time when they are elected judges and when they are elected judges. What matters is that we fix things, not go backwards. This is a step backwards. As Parliamentarian Orlic said, how it was before, and even now, as we are surprised, it is no good either, nor how it is now, it is even worse to take steps in the wrong direction, or to make the situation worse and open up to political parties, or politics, an even greater possibility of influence on the judiciary. So, to repeat, the profession, the judges, the judicial branch of the government says this is the wrong step, that it takes relativisation of the role of the president of the court, not strengthening. That's why we're voting against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16011	Seeing as the passions can't calm down, I'm setting a two-minute break. [[after breaks]] The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16013	Thank you, Chairman. We are three hours in the first term and we are discussing a few things that this member is changing in the current law, which is primarily the term of office of the President of the Court, which is now being shortened from five to four years, but the possibility that once again the president of the same court may be elected. And what's not said and what's my concern, which is that by changing this law, in fact, one new class category of judges creates, or professional presidents of the court, which, when they end four plus four years, if the authorities choose them to be the president of the court, will not end their career. They will go to another court to be presidents of the court there, and so until the end, until retirement, and the question of whether or not to retire, because these next members are so vaguely written that this may be a life-long function of the President of the Court. If I were right, dear colleagues, I will read you a sentence from the amendment of the member who wrote the draft law, which says - the restriction of the election to another term of office does not refer to the case of one person's election as the president of the second court. So that means that that person can be elected president of the second court twice. So, forever. The only condition, if they adopt these amendments and supplement the law that the presidents of the courts will have to comply with, is to be committed to the ruling majority, and that is why this amendment and this whole law cannot be accepted. This is why the Society of Judges said – can't by emergency procedure, without public debate, without the opinion of the High Council of the judiciary, to adopt such changes. But it's obviously not enough. There's a clear intention here to get the courts completely under control. I agree with counterpart Neđa Jovanovic, who says she is not the president of the court only the first among the equals. He has great responsibilities and responsibilities, and now his intention is to put himself under direct control of the executive authority, because if you do not act at the will of the executive authority you will not be elected again. And that's why that possibility was abolished by the previous law. So that the President of the Court could not, during his term, be blackmailed by re-election, pressured, outdated cases, such as Karic, Canet and various others we may not know about, and various other ways of manipulation in the work of the President of the Courts. This is a step back. A step that further strengthens the influence of the executive authority on judicial authority. We have limitations in our constitution. We have a limit in our laws, and if you want to change it, let's get that debate going. We started the constitutional debate here two years ago, it lasted two months and it stopped.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16014	Comrade Djurishic, about the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16015	I'm sorry. I'll be right back. So, this law, with this sentence at the end of which no one has turned their attention so far, is that it can be re-elected for the president of the same court, it opens the door to go to the next court, and in another, some third and so for the rest of their lives, on its own chance. Only to be loyal to the ruling party. That's another reason why we shouldn't vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16016	By amendment, MP Gjorge Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16017	Thank you. It is clear, Mr. Chairman, that you, too, are likely to have a selective relationship with the MPs of power and opposition. I didn't want to advertise the Rules of Procedure, I didn't want to argue, I think anyone looking at this is clear that there are double standards. A colleague, Jovanovic, has made some relevant remarks, and I have therefore taken this remaining time to answer. What's the topic? Does this change in the re-election of the President of the Court speed up control and enable better control of the judiciary by the executive authority or not? I mean, like most of my colleagues, that's to make it possible to control the judiciary by the executive, and that's why I'm against this proposed amendment. It doesn't mean at all if one of our colleagues said in the enthusiasm of controversy or heat or set up a dilemma about the fact that most of the courts or that most of the presidents are corrupt, it's absolutely incorrect. I want to be fenced on behalf of most colleagues. Of course most courts and judges are doing well, of course most of the presidents of the courts are doing their job safely, but the laws are generally dealt with and applied to those who do not or are not inclined to do so. So the real question is, is it possible in this way for the government to sometimes, we don't know which, imaginary power through some imaginary president of the court to control and influence the decisions that courts make? Yeah, I think it's possible. It is practically enough that you have one president of the court, one or two judges who are willing to listen to him, and you can establish direct control over the decisions that that court is making. That is what this is all about, and not at all about the desire to place dilemmas and mistrust in the work of courts throughout Serbia. So most people are doing their job in a safe way, doing their job responsibly, and they should have our support, but unfortunately, as in all professions, there are others and different ones, and they should be discouraged, not encouraged by the encouraging decisions that we make. That is why I propose, like most colleagues, that most of the professional public not to adopt this bill, that this kind of re-inclusion is not possible because then indeed the presidents of the courts will come into a privileged position in relation to their colleagues. They need to know that they will return in four or five years and have the same status as their colleagues, so as they perform that function they will be safer and less effort to meet the authorities, any authorities, and more to judge by justice and to take care of the fair distribution of powers that are in their work. That's why I think this proposal is bad, and I'd like to, I don't really have any interest, I don't have any use for it, I'd like to, if the promoter would give up or at least reconsider this solution one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16018	The People's Messenger Srdjan Nogo has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16019	The judiciary is a branch of power, as is the legislative and executive authority. Many Serbian citizens have contact points with the judiciary, and all of us should worry about the fact that more than 80% of people do not believe in the judiciary. We've even had a divorce lawsuit for over a decade. I heard the other day that one ended up in Smedereva after 11 years, and that's a serious problem. I would like to call on some of my colleagues, first fellow Arsic, who says the MP should, can and is obliged to point to certain facts. A fellow Djukanovic who pointed out...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16020	You want to talk about the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16021	I'm talking about the amendment, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16022	No, don't talk about the amendment. You're giving a political speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16023	Mr. Arsic, please, am I the only MP who has no right to speak? I'm just explaining why I don't think this law should be passed, and I refer to the arguments that other MPs have made. A colleague of Djukanovic himself said that he too felt that there were a lot of failures in the work of the judiciary and that many of the persons who had to be prosecuted and convicted were not. Kola Jovanovic pointed out the importance of the president of the courts and absolutely explained the position and role of the president of the courts in the Serbian judiciary. Even more potent, I think their power is far greater than he said. I would remind you that in November, we voted a law here in the National Assembly, which we introduced certain changes and the reorganisation of judicial authorities in the fight against corruption, and that the bill was signed by the Prime Minister who also indicated that there are a number of problems in the work of the judiciary and that it is therefore necessary to make certain changes, because he was not satisfied with the work of those in the fight against corruption which is a major problem in this society. This suggests that the situation in the judiciary is not good. counterpart Orlic himself said earlier that the ruling majority should bear the greatest responsibility for the situation in the judiciary. These are all the facts I would agree with and use as an argument in my address. Now I ask you a question -- when we all know what you of the ruling majority have said, how is it possible that we are satisfied with the work of the president of those same courts who are here right now when they end their mandates? Because in 2013, we passed one law, today we amend this law, and you do not indicate anywhere what reasons you have in practice defined that we can now give them another mandate. We have this very fact that people who are extremely important for the work of the judiciary, according to counterpart Jovanovic, create the success of such a judiciary where the ruling majority itself is not satisfied with the state and procedures. Let's not talk about citizens. That's one serious and big problem. I, as a MP, have pointed out exactly the problems in the functioning of the judiciary which, here, do not have to have to do with politics. Is, for example, the President of the Third Basic Court, who has a contract with the Piraeus Bank, who is responsible for all the disputes "Pireus Bank", which has a judge... A short time ago, counterpart Jovanovic said he should see to it that a legal decision comes out of court. I am Justice Minister Nelli Kuburovic, on Friday, handed over a CD with an audio recording that proves the falsification of the record that Judge Grkinjic is doing in a criminal procedure. Where's the reaction? Just as a MP, I am trying to point out that there are serious problems in the work of the Serbian judiciary. This law doesn't solve any problems. The problem with this law is that it strengthens this problem, because the presidents of the courts have not done their job well in the vast majority of cases, and that's the easiest thing to say. Some of the court presidents, especially those of the most significant, are directly involved in various criminal affairs. I'd still like to get an answer to one very important question. Since there are some people here who are extremely well informed, do they know who he took the money from Nenad Kovac, the opposition politician with whom he drank wine in his basement when he took from Zoran Copic Cope the money that was laundered from the Darko Saric clan? So, Nenad the blacksmith who he took it to, in whose basement?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16024	Mr. Nogo, I give you a second warning. I don't mind your asking, but ask when it's due. Right on line, MP Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16025	Thank you, Your Honor. It seems to me that absolutely someone misread me and mentioned me directly. I really pray, since I'm not here anyone who wants to fight or argue, I would just really ask my colleagues, let's not always walk away from all the judges being thieves, corrupt, and I don't know which one, and then every president of the court is going to be someone around who's going to be some mob boss in that court, and that they're all going to have to work for him. That's not normal thinking. These people we choose here. These are the people who finished law school, passed a judicial exam, and they've been in the profession for years. How is it possible for us to characterize people in an ugly way and say now – by extending them, or by allowing them to be presidents of the court again, by putting pressure on them? Why? I even claim that this improves the work of that president of the court, because in order to be re-elected, he'll try hard to do the best he can. After all, we are not relevant to assess their work, but there are institutions such as the High Council of the Judiciary. You don't think any of us MPs, and a huge number of us don't even have a law school, I do, but there are colleagues who don't, so you don't think they're competent to judge whether a judge works well or not and what verdict he's made or not? There are competent institutions there, of course it's being evaluated, and then it comes to us as a proposal. So let's not start with all the judges being bad. Is the situation in the judiciary okay? Well, it's not. Is it good in all society? Well, it's not. There are both good and bad sides, but we can't fully judge the judiciary as negative. It's that system of yours - if some Nikola is bad, let's hate St. Nicholas. It's not normal behavior, and I'd really like to ask you not to insult the judges like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16026	Two minutes, my colleague Djukanovic. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16027	You violated Article 104, and you allowed your colleague Djukanovic the right to replication. Article 104 says only if I misread his exposure or spoke offensively about an esteemed colleague, and I didn't do it either. I just said that I agree with the claim and the finding that my colleague Djukanovic made, as I agree with the findings he has now again – that the situation in society is bad and that the situation in the judiciary is bad, but I did not generalise things, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I don't know how he got the right to a replica, because I'm being denied the right to a replica when they insult me. On the other hand, how do you interpret my words that I generalized things when I didn't? I specifically appoint certain persons, precisely by name and last name, whether the judges, whether persons are outside the court, who are committing criminal acts and who are the biggest problem of the Serbian judiciary. I call upon the ruling majority, let the people change... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16028	Are you done?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16029	I have no right to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16030	You explained.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16031	There are some arches for the People's Messengers and others for me?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16032	You've explained the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and we're not going to talk about it right now. So, you said that Djukanovic was wrong, and I think it is because his discussion completely, to put it that way, changed its meaning.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16033	Do I have the right to a replica when he changed my discussion?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16034	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16035	How come I don't have a right and he has a right?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16036	National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16037	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've responded to the amendments a long time ago, but I've welcomed this amendment of mine so I can speak at all. What I was saying, I was talking about the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, the abuses of other colleagues, the gentleman you're reporting, not to mention your name so I wouldn't give you the right to replication. These gentlemen who turn their backs, these fine-mannered, etc., I will not give them the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16038	On the amendment, colleague Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16039	I'll talk on the amendment as much as any of my other colleagues have spoken. Namely, I claim that the motionary is right and I am willing to even consider withdrawing my amendment, but there's too much talk here that something is not constitutional, and that's what those who have chosen the unconstitutional president of the Supreme Cassation Court say. Let me remind you that this president was elected against the constitution and that it was assessed by the Constitutional Court that they chose in 2009. Therefore, their selected constitutional court position also estimated that their Supreme Cassation Court president was not elected in a constitutional manner. Because the first president of the Supreme Cassation Court was elected, and then the judges. That is, fellow lawyers will agree, as if they chose the president of parliament, and then elected MPs. The President of the Supreme Cassation Court was to be elected on the basis of the opinion of the first session the judges were to have. Also, it is said here that it is illegal, against the constitution of this president, that president. Let me remind you, and colleagues of the elderly, that's what those who are not present, who were Prime Ministers when prosecutors were appointed by the government's decision, and from the composition of Mr Batic's cabinet. So, what happened to us was that the government appointed prosecutors from the ministry of Vladan Batic. The Prime Minister is talking about constitutionality today. The Prime Minister is talking about the unconstitutional fact that this is not constitutional, etc., he talks and does not save family members from saying – when someone is a public figure it must be known. Well, I'm asking if his wife, Biserka Zivkovic, at the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, had a judicial exam when she started working there or that she later proposed?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16040	My colleague Rističević, please speak on the subject of the agenda, and we have spoken according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16041	He says it is not constitutional to extend the term of office to the presidents of the court who put the former justice minister in the war crimes prosecutor's office in an unknown legal manner. It is likely that only those who are Serbs would be tried and likely want to strengthen the composition and none of it was constitutional. Also, the presidents of the court and against the extension of the term of office are told by those who threw people off the train just because they speak English. The presidents of the court are told by those whose coalition partners were selling property to a certain Copic, now they're copying it to us. The court presidents are told by those who, while federal foreign ministers, sold the Usce Building to a company that was not registered when the competition was announced. The Presidents of the Court, I'm talking about the Presidents of the Court, has been given to you for four years, talk about those who were masters of transition and the Presidents of the Court that we choose and extend the right to another term should know that the judicial authority is investing to protect and punish, should protect the innocent, and punish the guilty, and here some of the masters of the transition that are extremely guilty, let's just say for privatisation are the ones that the court should punish. Those who sold the Danube Nis and didn't smoke. Therefore, they should be punished by the guilty, while protecting the innocent, and finally it is time for the presidents of the court to do so, and I am recommending that in their next term or in their new term in the first and second term, the courts to which they chair protect the innocent and punish the guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16042	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Radoslav Milojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16043	Mr. Arsic, I'm advertising Article 108. I'm asking you to have the same archaic as your colleagues in the opposition and your colleagues in power. I'm advocating article 108 to be held at a session of the National Assembly by an old president of the National Assembly or chair. Please, Mr. Arsic, would you please explain to your colleague Martinovic that when someone from the Democratic Party of the Word comes forward, he doesn't make any noises all the time. Please be the same, that you have the same criteria. You usually do, but I don't know what's wrong with you today. As far as I'm concerned, you don't respect it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16044	I don't think there's any breach of attitude 108. Do you want the Parliament to make a statement in the voting day? Yeah. All right, he'll come out. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Nogo.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16045	Article 106 and Article 109 have been broken. I'd like you to answer me about the subject of what the previous speaker said and explain how a member of 109 can apply to me and say he can't, or explain to me why you gave me a second warning? Because I was also talking about the presidents of the court, in exactly the same way as the distinguished colleague before me. Is the reason for your anxiety today and bad session management exactly what I'm saying, so maybe it bothers you and you have some pressure. You have to know, I don't have a problem bringing up some of the things that people here seem to mind. So you won't be able to shut me up.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16046	Comrade Nogo, you have been warned because you have said - and now let me ask you a question. Who?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16047	And that's forbidden?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16048	When it's not parliamentary questions, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16049	And colleagues across the street are allowed? Why aren't they the same arches?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16050	So please have some knowledge to inform the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. You're MPs, you can follow this case through the Justice Committee and your criminal charges, you have the right.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16051	Because of the question I got a warning. I just want to get into the record that I got a warning for asking questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16052	After several prior warnings.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16053	Did you warn me right during the exposure?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16054	Mr. Nogo, I take your word. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivic, Dr Dijana Vukomanovic and Goran Pekarski. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment in the same text were tabled by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Marinika Tepic, MPs of the SDS, MPs of the SRS, MPs of the DS and MPs of the Dveri Parliament Club. Does anyone want a word? The word has a People's MP, Sreto Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16055	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so time best determines whether one is, or determines whether a legal proposal is good or bad. I don't think any of the colleagues here have challenged the motion to propose a law like this. Although I personally do not think it would be contrary to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, it would be a good thing that the minister of justice is here today when we talk about this law. For what? Well, if the role of the President of the Court is important, and it is, I personally think that the role of the Minister of Justice is extremely important. Based on the presentation and observation of certain MPs, surely something could serve in the practice of the minister of justice. That means, once again, we're undisputing the promoter to have this right. The second question is, should these changes and additions have been suggested or something else? Here, I have looked again and reminded myself of the Law on Judges and that the Proposer has suggested that Article 6 of this law be amended which he says - for the damage caused by judges is the Republic of Serbia's response to illegal or irregular work. Well, if the Republic of Serbia pays the damage caused by the judge by unconscious and illegal work, then it can ask the judge for compensation. Not if she could, but she'd have to look. Then it would become visible to the citizens of Serbia, i.e. the people who address the parties who address the court that there is that judicial responsibility, in order not to be imprecise now, I must say. The highest number of judges as well as the president of the courts, responsible, qualified, securely doing their job. Is that how everybody does it? Well, of course they don't. The judge is, above all, a man and others are wrong, and I am not talking about political influence when judges are knowingly and deliberately wrong. But there is no representative of the political authority who could influence the judge or the president of the court to make some illegal decision if he had to make the consequences of that illegal decision. Then he'd say, I'm sorry, I don't want to do that. That's what we need. If the promoter had suggested that other provisions be changed, we might be willing to accept such a proposal. But what is proposed, I think that neither will contribute to a better quality of justice nor will help Serbian citizens who appear as parties to the courts before they exercise their right, have a fair trial and all that is prescribed by both the Constitution and the laws relating to the judiciary. The provisions proposed for change are about three, a quarter refers to when the law enters into force. I listen to all my colleagues when they talk about this, and I personally think that there is no ideal system for selecting judges and presidents, not even if they were to do it exclusively professionally or when it is combined as we have at this point, so the profession and the work of the National Assembly when it comes to the election of judges for the first time in a three-year term or when it comes to the election of the President of the Courts. There have been disputes with the MPs about what they are even talking about, and believe me, I listen carefully to all the exhibitors, all the MPs who speak on this subject, and I undetermined whether I will pay attention to statements or to what I have heard more to fellow Members who are graduates, or have their own working experience in the field of justice or have their own working experience related to the area of justice, or to some other MPs, because simply, and by the fact that we are MPs and we have the right to talk about everything that is on the agenda, but it is a bit odd explanation of one MP who says that this is more in accordance with the Constitution, if the term of the President of the Court is four years, and the constitutional category is the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, and there is said that his mandate takes five years and that he cannot be re-elected. Already, counterpart Zoran Krasic explained, it is not an unconstitutional fact to shorten the term from five to four years, but to extend the term of office and allow the other presidents of the courts to be elected to the office or office of the president of the same court once more, a total of twice, to be elected as the highest representative of the court in Serbia. So he can and only has to be elected once, and the presidents of other courts in Serbia can be elected twice to the post. To allow the president of the court to be at the post for five years, which has been so far, to give him the opportunity to be re-elected for four years, means a total of 9 years. Justifying it by the fact that it takes continuity, it's absolutely unacceptable for me, which means someone needs to be 20 years to be president of the court to learn, or it's unclear. If the Constitution says that only one mandate is possible, then it should have been consistent until the end and carried out so. I tried to find a reason why these changes and additions were not proposed by the government. Once again, I say, I do not dispute that every MP can do this, but it has some reason. The fact that this law is not in accordance with the Constitution, the Government did not want to take that responsibility on its own, and then it was agreed, and otherwise the amendments and additions of this law are already spoken in the professional public for more than a year, and then the obligation for the MP to propose amendments and amendments to that law is left. At this point, we don't have a lot of judge presidents who would otherwise, and they have met the conditions for retirement, but enough to have one or two, for which it is done, to question the number of MPs left. Of course, they're not thrilled about these judges or the presidents of some courts, because it's about who it's about. Of course, I think that here will be one president of the court who, if we were not principled, we could say that he could be President of the Court for life, it's about one basic court, the basic court in Požega, where the President of the Court has no old pending cases, well organized the work of that court, really works well, but we're principled, and yet we count on him for as many years as the President of the Court has been, helped, trained, and someone else to be just as good as the President of the Court. There's a folk saying that says: "It's better to show it once than to say it a hundred times." This means, if the President of the Court is a high-quality, professional, safe and responsible judge, he will surely have such a position when he retires, that someone next can also perform the function in an extremely good and quality manner. The judge's office ends with the completion of the working century, unless someone's the president of the court. There are legal provisions here that have been counted exactly when the judge's office ends and it's impossible, so the President of the Court's office is being performed from what he has been constantly elected as a judge. It has expired, it will continue to serve as judge's president, thereby extending its role as judge. It's like what someone gave birth to giving birth to what they gave birth to. If that's not possible in nature, we don't need what we can regulate by law, and you have that majority, and you could make a decision today, maybe it's not Monday, but if it's another day, but it just doesn't make sense, it's not of any importance and it's not at all of an impact. There is no reason to accept this law. He will not lead to any better and better solution. It is absolutely unacceptable for me that due to the continuity of the office of the President of the Court, this should be brought and changed. Of course, we have also submitted amendments to all of the SRS, submitted amendments to all members of this law, so that the law does not enter into legal traffic, because it does not lead to a better and better solution in the area of justice, and certainly there are many bad trials, and there are also bad judges and there are long waiting for justice. All that is present in our justice system, but this will not be fixed by the team.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16056	According to the amendment, MP Maja Vidinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16057	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Describing the amendments that we have tabled on the proposal tabled by counterpart Martinovic, we have talked about the intention that is evident from all these proposed changes, the intention that should enable it to be fully tightened and to expand the political influence that is being realised in the words of the judges, not in the words of politicians, citizens, but in the words of the judges themselves who are primarily realised through the president of the courts. All polls say that judges are suffering political pressure and all polls say that this is most realised through the presidents of the courts, and the intention of the head of the parliamentary group is to double the mandate, completely unsuspectingly explain that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court has a five-year term, and I remind you that the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the constitutional category is and that this is foreseen by the Constitution and that you actually wanted to place the presidents of the other courts, or give the possibility of a shorter term, in order for the constitutional category to be respected. On the contrary, you have mocked the post of President of the Supreme Cassation Court by the fact that the term of president of the basic courts will be possible twice in four years, even though we have had amazing ones, who are biting at the logic of the argument, that eight years is less than five years...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16058	Please, colleague, talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16059	So, the first intention was absolutely clear, that the contrary opinion of the judge, the opposite independence of the judiciary, is contrary to the principle of non-discrimination, contrary to the Action Plan for Chapter 23, and the amendment proposal for Article 2 is very possible in the opposite of the Constitution, and I understand the intention that this is exactly what the head of the parliamentary group is proposing, not the Government that accepts and that is behind this. So, in this article proposed by counterpart Martinovic, it actually speaks of a function, that the judge's mandate ceases when conditions for retirement are acquired, and that is when they don't retire, if it is the president of the court, but to remain in the position of the president of the court, until the term of office of the president of the court expires. I must remind you that it is a condition for the election of the President of the Court, to perform a judicial function. The performance of the judge's office is older than the office of the president of the court. You can't be elected President of the Court unless you're a judge, and this is totally amazing and puts the President of the Court in a position of discrimination that you're already trying to give more importance through the first member and to strengthen your role and to allow a double term, and this is what you're putting the Presidents of the Court in a privileged position compared to your fellow judges, completely amazing. The argument that lies in the explanation of the amendments to these laws is incredible. All the questions we asked, we didn't get an answer. Based on what assessment, on what analysis did such a proposal take place, based on which public debates? Why an emergency procedure? What negative consequences will it suffer if political intentions are made, so that the paved space for political influence for the presidents of the courts does not come true? It is therefore unacceptable to favour the President of the Court at the expense of other judges. This is potentially the opposite of the Constitution of Serbia, article 21, and it will only open new problems and new issues if, unfortunately, you adopt such changes.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16060	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16061	Thank you, Chairman. This article is controversial, given that it is directly contrary to Article 59. The judge's law. I'm surprised that the promoter, Dr. Martinovic, could have made such an oversight. Namely, Article 59. The Law on Judges speaks of the end of the working age of judges, and he says, as today is the case - the judge stops working time when he turns 65 years of life by force of the law. The second position is exceptional from the position of the 1st member to the Supreme Casation Court, the working century ends when he turns 67 years of life by force of law. So if the promoter wanted this norm he was proposing here, next to the office of the President of the Court, he would extend the judge's office as he wrote it. He had to write that exception in Article 59, because this is how we're going to have two members who are opposing each other. So, a member of the 59th says that the judge stops working time when he is 65 years old by law point and then lists only one exception. So, this is the amendment to the law in Article 74, where, in addition to the extension of the term of office of the President of the Court, when the judge turns 65 he extends and the court office is not illegal, it is not well written and must be changed, and it is best to delete. And that's our proposal to delete Article 2. A bill proposed by counterpart Martinovic, as it places confusion in the Judges Act itself. It will create a problem as well as Article 1, as well as Article 3. Now I want to say something about what this article 59 looked like. By 2013, when new authorities arrived, he allowed the judge to remain possibly two more years in the court office, at the request of the president of the court, and that was decided by the High Court Council. Then the ruling majority in 2013 said no. Everyone has to live at 65 years and then another 40 years of work, everyone has to retire, everyone has to finish their workdays. Well, here comes the first exception. In 2015, this exception is put in place for judges of the Supreme Cassation Court, but only two years. Now, we're making new exceptions. We are coming to the fact that the President of the Court can take a longer term. How long? I'm sure if this change goes through now, that in some not-so-far future, if this ruling majority still works in Serbia, it will come, let's say, an authentic interpretation of the law, where we're going to interpret that someone at 68 can, for example, be elected president for the first time. Because here he says his term of office is up until the term of office of the President of the Court. I believe, since apparently, this power cannot find new loyal corrupt judges. He has this one of his numbers that were members of the SNS. They're being drained by an influential judiciary. First we're talking about, as it is written here -- the president of a court can be the president of one court, one term, another term at 67, let's say, eight years old, which is impossible, let's say for a Supreme Court judge, he can be elected as a next court. Because that restriction does not exist either in Article 1 of this Act or in Article 2 of this Act. And to be president of the court for life. A special caste is being created by this law. The presidents of the courts, meaning people who should be loyal to Alexander Vukic's regime and influence the judiciary until the end of his term. This is bad. This is the result of obviously some fear. As a result, those most loyal to Alexander Vukic's regime should retire and no longer be able to finish their jobs for his regime. Now they're being forced against the law, and they need a smooth extension of their mandate. To remain in the courts as judges and presidents of the courts, indefinitely for the rest of their lives. For all of this, I repeat again, withdraw this law. If there is a need to discuss how to change the situation in the judiciary, open a public debate. Include the expert public. Not like this without an emergency hearing. Very important changes to bring to parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16062	The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16063	I would draw attention to the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia also has a member of 148, and there is an attitude of 3 that I quote, as one MP would say. The procedure is governed by law by the procedure of the basis and the grounds for the termination of the judicial post, as well as the grounds for the decision on the duties of the President of the Court. In translation it means – only by law should this be arranged secondly. Reasons for ending the office of the President of the Court. You see, the Constitution says no function but the duty of the President of the Court. However, a member of the Constitution is said to decide on the termination of their post, because both the presidents of the courts and prosecutors are listed. What is the problem with this member of the second bill? The problem is that you can't see what needs to be seen, which is -- the judge can be the judge, if he has express ability to manage and organise a job. But he must basically have a judge's office and that permanent judge's office. A permanent judge's office is guaranteed until the age of 65. When one of the judges turns 65 years old, he practically lost his office. He cannot do either what is secondary and what springs, or what belongs to the judge's office, which is the duty of the President of the Court. I must correct MP Djurisic and in article 59, what has been written up to 67 years and that is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In the provisions of the Law on Judges, there is a provision on the working century, which says – 65 years of age of life has an addition by force of the law. When something by law enforcement, then there is no possibility of discretionary decision-making, and in the Labour Act there is no longer a provision, but it is said by law enforcement, so they gave some opportunity there, if the employer... That shouldn't interfere with the judge's office. This examines the unconstitutional nature of this member, especially what they are using the term of office of the President of the Court. The President of the Court doesn't have a mandate. The Constitution doesn't know the word mandate. The constitution just, let me read that to you, for a period of so many years, is chosen. The term of office means power, the mandate means command, the mandate can also mean the period of time. There is no term of office in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The term of office exists only with the High Council of the Judiciary, but it is not the authority of the judicial authority. It is an authority that exercises management and certain rights and powers that exist in connection with the judicial branch of power. I am using this debate, first of all, to explain this, because I am absolutely sure that these reasons that I am stating and why I claim that this is not in agreement with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia or with the Association of Judges or someone else to use and that as soon as possible, this will be brought before the Constitutional Court, because I guarantee that this has to take place there, and probably the Constitutional Court will start on official duty, because there is also a working century. One of the only exceptions that the Assembly has given to the Law on the Constitution of the Court until the end of the cases for which they are in charge, and here it is not, that the functions of management and management are derived by an unconstitutional and extension of permanent judicial functions, although the working age prescribed by the law has been completed. It can't do that. This must not enter the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. I don't want to discuss whether the right limit is 65, maybe 67 is the right line, but it needs to be settled by law in one other way. As long as there are these provisions that speak of the working age of 65, they apply to the presidents of the courts, they apply to the judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation, regardless of what you put on that exception which is obviously unconstitutional. I have to draw attention to you, the Supreme Council of the Judiciary is always required when one of the judges turns 65 to inform the National Assembly that they have obtained conditions for the termination of the judge's office. The function of the President of the Court does not exist. There's only a duty. When you appoint someone as acting president of the court, you do not appoint him as acting president of the court, but as acting officer of the court. We have courts where the presidents of the courts take part in the trial and perform judicial functions, and we have large courts with a large number of judges where the presidents of the courts do not perform judicial duties, except when it is necessary to provide for a fair and just trial, such as a decision on the exemption of judges or other matters, but it's totally something else. If the working century for the President of the Court is different from the working century for the judge, make sure it is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16064	Thank you. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16065	Thank you. Dear Chairman, I have volunteered to speak by amendment to Article 2. So, in Article 2. The draft law provides that the President of the Court, who during the term of office, shall be given his term of office, the judge's office and the office of the President of the Court shall be suspended by the end of the term of office of the President of the Court. This is a logical solution and a solution that will ensure continuity in the performance of the President of the Court. The efficiency of the work of the courts will not be questioned or slowed down due to a possible election by the new president of the court. So I don't think this amendment should be accepted. Today, just before noon, I heard about the creation of some clans in courts, which are reportedly going to happen right after this bill was passed. I heard about party personnel, listeners to fellow Martinovic, pressures, influence of the authorities on judges, and quite paranoid ties between the executive authorities, the president of courts and the outcome of the case. Apparently, this will all happen by adopting this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges. I would remind the public only, and I know that many people in Nis and personally remember what they were going through in 2009 and 2010, so because we know well what kind of clans existed at that time in courts and how literally the lists that the courts are going to receive specifically are being resolved for various reasons, I would ask my fellow Members and fellow MPs to stop politicizing this story, because it is a very important thing, which is the work of courts, the efficiency of courts, organisations, and these are the people who are going to be at the head of the courts. I also call on this amendment not to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16066	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16067	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in order to work more efficiently, I will withdraw this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16068	Anyone else want a word on this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. What's your problem, Mr. Nogo?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16069	I answered my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16070	You've been denied the right to discuss this session today.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16071	How did you take away my right?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16072	I took it from you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go. (Srdian Nogo: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16073	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16074	Hold on, colleague Sarovic. I'm sorry. Mr. Nogo has the word. You were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16075	Please explain to me, a member of the 110s, on what basis and how did you determine it for me? You have to explain it to me and point it out to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16076	I don't have to explain. Before that, you had two steps of warning, not enough for you. The next measure is taking words. If you move on, there's another measure. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16077	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move on to the amendment, I would point to another abuse that has become so common that no one is practical and not notices or notices, which is the fact that this amendment and supplement of the Law has been filed under an urgent procedure and, unfortunately, it has become a practice, no exception, but it has become a rule to discuss the urgent procedure of laws that absolutely do not meet the conditions laid down by the Rules of Procedure. I'll read you what Article 167 says. The Rules of Procedure, which says the law can be passed by emergency procedure, and then determines the conditions and conditions are very serious. The first condition – by emergency procedure can be passed by law governing issues and relations...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16078	Please, colleague, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16079	Circumstances that could not be predicted. Now, what is this legal proposal that could not be predicted? This is a law that's been in force for years. We don't have a court date since yesterday. We don't have the Judges Act since yesterday. If there are problems, they do not exist since yesterday, and certainly these problems are not some sort of elemental disaster, nor could the adoption of an emergency law cause adverse consequences to the lives and health of people, the safety of the country, etc. That condition is not met. The second thing is that you are clearly trying to establish even more firm control over the courts and even tighter control over the presidents of the courts and even tighter control over each individual judge. How do you do that? By violating the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is a framework that you cannot change by law. When the Constitution determines that a question is further regulated by law, it is possible, but within the frameworks set by the Constitution. You're out of it here. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not know the court's re-election institute. If for five years, what is a valid solution, it wasn't enough to establish continuity, as you say, why didn't you extend it to eight years? Because then there would be no re-election. There would be no sword hanging over the heads of judges, no fear of being reelected after four years. You and that variant would always be at your disposal if the president of a court who doesn't do a good job would be relieved after a year, after two, after three, you had that opportunity. Clearly, the goal is not what you here have declared a goal. With the amendment to Article 74, you add the position 2 which reads: "The President of the Court, who during the term of office of office, the judge's office and the office of the President of the Court, ceases at the end of the term of office of the President of the Court." What does this mean? This means that the one you, for example, choose for a month before the end of 65 years of your life as president of the court, can work for another four years by 69 years. You can choose him again before the second term expires, it doesn't say anywhere directly that it isn't prohibited, and we know what the ruling majority's interpretations are. You pick him, then he could theoretically be the president of both the court and the judge by 73. Secondly, this provision is directly contrary to some previous members and provisions of the same law. In Article 12, paragraph 1, which states that "the judge's office lasts from the first election to the completion of the working century" - therefore, by completing the working century, the judge's office is the basis for someone to perform the duties of the president of the court. When he's old, 65 years old, that's the end of it. There must be an older office of judge than the President of the Court. I guess that's clear. Given that Article 74 of position 1 defines the reasons, it says that "the President of the Court ceases to function as judge of the second court on a personal request for the expiry of the court's term of office and resolution", and whoever performs his working life as judge only during the end of the term of office. Now, that could lead us to another absurd. If someone turns 65, as president of the court, it means that even on a personal request, he can't stop being a judge. Then you captured him and he's forced to retire for the next four years, you'll be working until you're dead, until the 69 years are up. What you're doing, you're doing over your knee. You're making progress. You're working without serious thinking. This shows you this absurd situation that you've brought yourself into. When you talk about laws, when you talk about your authority, don't talk about any serious reforms. Is this the serious law, are these serious reforms, and will you in this way ensure, as you say, fair trials and a much faster and more efficient judiciary?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16080	Thank you. The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16081	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, in the framework of the judicial reform, not much has been done. Since the DOS arrived, there have been numerous scandals and numerous irregularities in the judiciary. When it comes to the role of the President of the Court, he has so much responsibility that he has to monitor the legality of law enforcement by the competent judicial authorities, i.e. the institution of judicial functions, i.e. Judge. I'll give you one piece of information. There's such a policy in Panchev, a criminal policy, that the cadium sues you and the cadiya judges you. What does that mean? It is that false 535 criminal charges have been filed against citizens, mostly opponents of the DOS political regime, that out of those 535 citizens accused of false indictments by public prosecutors in Panchev, the court of all 535 citizens has been released. What's the matter? It is that from the High Council of the judiciary, through the Supreme Court of Cassation, it is necessary that the President of the Court should, in any case, bear responsibility for the legality of the implementation of certain rules. How is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, that in Panchev, 37 criminal charges are filed against the lawyer Predrag Basaric without any case being prosecuted? Is it true that his godmother is a deputy prosecutor in New Sad? Is it true that out of these 535 indictments, 110 million were paid from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and tax citizens? [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16082	My colleague Jojić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16083	Is it true that lawyer Predrag Basaric of Pančeva 80,000 euros has been paid for the outcome of the building permit?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16084	You can't do that, colleague Jojic. Don't talk about the subject, don't talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16085	I'm sorry, we didn't get along.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16086	A colleague named Nogo got a warning about it. Do you want to?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16087	We didn't get along.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16088	No, I understand you perfectly.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16089	I'm talking about why it is necessary to strengthen the control of the President of the Court's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16090	Ask for a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16091	Mr. Arsic, this is about a disaster in certain parts of the judiciary. Who's responsible for law enforcement in courts? It is also the president of a court that does not perform, above all, analytical statistics and does not analyse the work of law enforcement by individuals. Therefore, when I said that Predrag Basaric, a lawyer from Pančev, took 80,000 euros to get a building permit, that the criminal report "Ingrap apartment" from Belgrade was rejected, so what are we talking about, what further reform of the judiciary? There must be some measures here to know who's hair, who's wearing water. The President of the Court must not, under the Constitution or by law, interfere in the jurisdiction of the judge, but the President of the Court must not remain silent if the judge has broken the law. He must take appropriate measures. Secondly, I have to point out again, just before I pointed out the fact that 37 criminal charges, Mr. Arsic, were filed. That's what you know, in the history of the Serbian judiciary, there's no record. Secondly, how is it possible that in 90% of the cases the indictments and the verdicts are identified the same? As the prosecutor suggests, so does the judge. That means – cadiya sues, cadiya judges. Is the President of the Court running an analysis? Are there certain controls going on? Why, Mr. Arsic, has the Supervisory Board been suspended at the Supreme Cassation Court? That body should return to the Supreme Court of Cassation, not that it affects the judge's decision, but rather that it examines and controls whether the judge respects the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16092	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16093	Thank you. I will also be very specific about a very concrete proposal. If there is still some dilemma for Article 1 whether or not it is constitutional, I think this time, when it is already in this article, it will be quite clear that it will be, or that it is my belief, probably down. But, regardless of the constitutionality or not the constitutionality of this proposal, the logical analysis and, I would say, a reasonable analysis clearly shows that it is absurd, regardless of what the Constitutional Court will say, that you are a judge, or the function or duty of a president who is related to a judicial office and who insists on his judicial status, that the judge must retire from 65 years of age and that the president may continue until the end of the term of office. If that's not a nonsensical, dear colleagues, I don't know how much of this noise citizens can possibly understand, because some colleagues have already turned their attention to it. So, he's president, he's elected president, it doesn't matter now whether he's elected or not, he's elected president on the basis of the judge's office, and then, in the letter of the 65-year-old law, he has to retire, but he can continue his post as president, and he's doing it until the term of office, not only can he do it 60, at least eight years theoretically, and perhaps more than that, to perform the function of president, but it's simply such a nonsensum that it's hard to explain why he's doing it.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16094	Comrade Vukadinović, you're bringing the place in.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16095	So, simply, or extend, the last sentence, or extend the function, or that the judge can judge for over 65 years, because I know that some people find it hard to retire, and some of them can't wait, or change this article because it brings in one legal...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16096	Thanks, buddy. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16097	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Serbian Movement's parliamentary group Dveri suggested that the member be deleted through the amendment. What exactly is this about? It is that, if the duration of the working century is limited by the number of years to 65 years, and it is limited to judges, why should the President of the Court, who should be elected from the judge's office, be privileged to have his working life lasted until theoretically 68 years and, I don't know, 11 months, assuming that he was elected immediately before his retirement. What exactly is this about? In my view, it was logical, if we wanted to change it, that as far as the president's mandate is concerned, we could say that the President of the Court cannot be elected if he is over 61 years old and solve this problem that has arisen, because there is a kind of discrimination here. Why allow someone to be on the job longer than someone else, and they're from the same brand and they were doing the same job, and then it's all within the box, so we've submitted this amendment, and we've had those discussions that I had the other day. It's about one, less or more soft or rough, pressure on the presidents of the court, and I can't help but think that if it was going on this proposal, it would give us information, information, what is the number of judges, or the president of the courts who can be affected, conditionalally, by this change of law? Is it a large number of judges or is it a small number of judges? If it's a small number of judges, then we can come to the conclusion that it's made especially to a person. This address, according to this amendment, and of course I can see that he will not be adopted, I will end what Confucius said. We were just talking about these impressions and influences -- the breath of smelling a hand that gives a rose. You give four more years of work to the individual face and the breath of the scent of the rose will remain on his hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16098	On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, they filed... (Zoran Zivkovic: I asked for a word. You've wasted your time, colleague Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic: Amendment Proposer. ) This was the amendment by Marijan Risticevic. Now it's your amendment. (Zoran Zivkovic: My amendment to Article 2) It wasn't in the system, Mr. Zivkovic. (Zoran Zivkovic: I asked the secretary. You told me that. Is that right? ) On Article 3 of the amendment, in the same text, the People's MP Alexander Cabraj, MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP Marinika Tepic, MP Djordje Vukadinović, MPs of the SDS Parliament Club, MPs of the SRS Parliament Club, MPs of the DS Parliament Club and MPs of the Dveri Parliament Club submitted. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Zoran Zivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16099	So I was also registered for the amendment that I submitted to Article 2. Why can't you see that? What's your problem with that?
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16100	There was a misunderstanding. I'll give you your time back. It was Mr. Risticevic's amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16101	No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I had my amendment. Look at that gear you've got in front of you. But it's nothing new. Neither does this Article 3. This is one ridiculous law. It is such a bad law that the Serbian government is ashamed of the law, the shameless Serbian government is ashamed of this text of the law because it brings amendments that are completely pointless. If that made any sense, perhaps the self-proclaimed, best lawyers in the history of humanity from Belgrade, Kragujevka and some other colleges would have made sure that they sent such a bill, but that didn't happen, and that's a thing clear from the beginning. I don't want to go back to Article 2, because my colleagues from different parties that I sometimes disagree with, sometimes I rarely agree with, have given the same argument that I would have given, so I support everything they said about it. Article 3, which is to be deleted, of course, like everyone else, says -- that the president of the court continues to work until the end of the term of office and that he can be elected president of the court, once again, for a term of four years. This means that the cumulation of the mandate should allow us to get to the point of strengthening the role of the president of the court, so that no nonsense happens that happens quite often. Therefore, I call on you not to do so, because it is absolutely pointless for a duty or mandate, as anyone loves to be double, because it will not create any security, neither for that president of the court, nor for the citizens of Serbia. This is a disgrace to the Serbian parliament and withdraw the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16102	The word is from MP Marko Djurisic. (Natasa Jovanovic: According to the Rules of Procedure. You've reached out to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16103	Mr. Arsic, I've shown you my Rules of Procedure, and I'm reporting for article 27 and Article 158. You are either decompensated today or you are not up to the situation of chairing a session of the National Assembly. I've been following your behavior this morning since 10:00, and in this particular case, these business mistakes you've made, it's Mrs. Bulajic, who's the secretary. Namely, you have a so-called. The synopsis that you, in this case today, are just an official speaker, so to speak, and you're trying to play something that the Rules of Procedure doesn't give you for the right, you've been talking to MPs all morning, not just at a level that doesn't satisfy normal communication between serious people, not talking about serious parliamentary debate. So, you just said that the amendments were submitted by the MPs from the SRS. Is this Prof. Dr. Milovan Bojic, Natasa Jovanovic, Vesna Nikolic Vukajlović, Miljan Damnjanovic, Petar Jojic? No, I don't. We are not the applicants of this amendment, and we could be, but your obligation, Mr. Arsic, is only if you do not hate to read further or you are tired, so take your own time, set a break, to read that it is Verica Radeta, Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarović and Sreto Peric. It is only then that we can continue to discuss the details of Article 3 of the proposal such a radical amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16104	Perhaps you're right, colleague Jovanovic. However, more amendments have been read in this way so far, so I don't know why when I chair you have the absoluteity to advertise the Rules of Procedure. All right, all right, here's what you want next time. Mr. Djurishich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16105	Thank you, Chairman. This Article 3 is, as it is written, the right place and place where the proposer should have written the name and name of that man or those people that made this law and written it. So, it is clearly said here that the presidents of the courts who were elected earlier for a five-year term have the right now, if these amend and supplement the Law on Judges are adopted, to end their five-year term first, no matter how many years they will have at the time of their term of office, and then, if they are similar, if they meet all the requirements of the Government, President Alexander Vukic, they will be rewarded with another term of office. I call again on the Proposer to say the name or names for which this law is written, because it is quite clear, when you read these three members, that is, the previous two and this third now, there is only one empty place to leave, for which, to enter the name, which is why this law is being passed. That's the worst thing about passing laws like this, and that's the manners of this government, that haughtiness, that opinion and attitude that you can do anything, that if you have 126 MPs who are going to vote for anything, to vote for one thing today, and tomorrow the exact opposite, that you can propose to the Assembly of Anything. If the intention was to improve the situation in the judiciary, to move forward with this most important problem in Serbia's social system, public debate would be opened, the profession would give its opinion, political parties would give their opinion and come here with some solution, not secretly, not overnight. They may not agree with such a solution, but they certainly would not have such a law that enters the Assembly overnight, according to an emergency procedure, and clearly this provision here, which is the addition of the law, is not even an amendment to the existing law, extends the mandate of those loyal court presidents, loyal to Alexander Vukic. If this law is passed, they will be rewarded to complete their mandate no matter how many years they are now, to be elected if they serve well once more, and then who knows how many times. I didn't hear from the promoter that I was wrong when I said that according to this law, as it is written, a person who ends two terms at the office of one court's president cannot go to another court and performs the office of the President of the Court again in two terms, so I don't know either for the next and so for the rest of my life. You may come with a change that even after death someone will be the President of the Court, that even death does not interrupt the office of the President of the Court.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16106	Don't overdo it, colleague Đurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16107	I'm not exaggerating, but nothing would surprise me. When I watch the laws change here, how they adapt to certain people, I don't have, believe me, the impression that something like that wouldn't happen. Once again, I call on the promoter to withdraw this harmful law while there is still time or to accept amendments that delete these members, three members of this harmful law, and to allow a normal debate on how justice should be reformed in Serbia, because this is a key that can allow for key changes in Serbia and economic and all others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16108	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Vukadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16109	I think the thing is now more, less clear, I won't call on the promoter to withdraw, he obviously won't do it. I think it is clear to anyone who has, however, been slowly following this debate that, no matter how different people and MPs from different parliamentary groups are, we have agreed more or less that this is a bad proposal and at the same time a proposal that allows and contributes leaves room for additional political control and influence on the work of the court. This is a proposal which is as if it were made for certain persons, i.e. for those who stand out or who are closer to retirement, so they need to be allowed either another term of office or to extend the job of the President of the Court and after they retire. It's bad, it's precedent, and I'm just sorry, I'll end up very quickly, not wasting your time and mine anymore, I'm sorry that in this way some kind of unwarranted doubt or shadow of doubt falls, and many of those presidents of the courts and judges who are doing their job with honor and who will now be elected by this law, or re-elected, and for that there was no need. If someone did their job well, if someone deserved it during his career and worthy of it, then there is a way that his activity, his presence in public life, or his presence in the judiciary are otherwise favored and extended. This simply shows that some people who act as president of the court have phobia since retirement, or, worse still, the government has a need for their services and therefore access to this hocus-pocus that no one will benefit from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16110	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Nemanja Sarovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16111	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have an amendment to Article 3 of the proposed law, it has the same meaning as the previous amendments we have proposed, because this article is suggested that whoever has been elected president for a five-year term may be re-elected once again for a four-year term. We have the same problems again, an inequality is reintroduced, legal uncertainty is reintroduced, judges will have a different position and something is reintroduced, which is the re-election principle of the president of a court. Regardless of what we heard from the ruling coalition MPs today from some that the situation was fantastic, that it was never better, that as they reformed with the yellow party, they say, the judiciary was extremely bad, but now that they're doing it with someone else it's better, it's clear that all this leads to increased pressure on the judges, on the presidents of the courts, and that we're going to have an even worse and worse judiciary. We, among other things, have heard from one member of the ruling coalition that he has a name - and this court president is good. It should not be forgotten that this MP, who is part of the ruling coalition, is a lawyer, that he is acting before that court. Is there any more obvious conflict of interest, is there any more obvious pressure on this judge and on any other judge? I suppose they, like the rest of Serbia's citizens, are watching this and are aware that they can find themselves on a wallpaper in the National Assembly tomorrow, whether someone will criticize them or praise them.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16112	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Alexander Chabrai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16113	Thank you. Since, in practice, we have been talking about almost the same subject all day, and this is the possibility of re-election of the President of the Courts, who is controversial, when I have explained the previous amendment that the Venice Commission has also had an objection to such a solution and has indicated that it is instrumentalising it, it practically enables the influence of the authorities on the presidents of the courts, and therefore also on the courts, I am responsible for, in some ways, by listing how open the chapters are during the time, I don't know, some previous authorities, during this government, etc. I've never really been in any government, but if I were to be in power by any chance and talk about it, I'd certainly prefer to boast of the closure of some chapters instead of opening up, but, well, I'll leave that to those who do so. So, I wanted to point out once again that this is absolutely, as many colleagues have already said before, a way to influence the presidents of the courts, hence the courts. So, that practically similar judges are rewarded by re-election and that inappropriate judges are punished by not being elected, and other than the Venice Commission has pointed to this wrong solution and that all day my colleagues point to, of course, as some colleagues say, this is, of course, a violation of the Serbian Constitution. For example, in Article 49, paragraph 1 states that a judge in the exercise of judicial office is independent and subject only to the Constitution and the law, while in Article 2 of the same article says that any influence on judges is prohibited. Therefore, this should neither be a way of affecting the presidents of the courts, the judges and the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16114	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Vesovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will use what little time is left of the parliamentary group to say something about the amendment, and this story will be a complete sequel to that story when I spoke of the amendment to Article 2. So, if someone, we assume, at 63 years of age, was elected president of the court under the old law, he could be president by 68 years, and then, when he turns 68, he'll be entitled to another term of office, he'll be able to be a judge until 72 years old, as far as I understand it well. So it's really discrimination against those who will have to retire. If I had any doubts until a few hours ago, and look, now I will not go into what people are concerned about, and I don't doubt their expertise, nor their moral characteristics, but if I had any doubt that this wasn't purposely made for anyone, now I don't have a gram of doubt, I just wonder why, if it was for a particular person that was done, to us who weren't in power, to us who didn't make any past laws, to us who weren't involved in politics at that time, and I have one very practical way that you could solve it for us and that really this discussion, which is going to go completely, by me, strangely, you could stop. In the bill of law, you should have put a picture of the candidates and suggested that the person elected for that function should be unequivocally reminded of the person from the picture given in the law, because this really doesn't make sense. Either tell us who it's about and explain it as the professional qualities of that person or, like this, I'm really running out of some positive text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16116	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Marija Janjušević, for another minute and 26 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16117	According to the amendment, since we have submitted an amendment to Article 3 which, like everyone else, needs to protect the principle of constitutionality, the principle of independence and the independence of our courts. I think we'll all agree that it's perfectly logical for the presidents of the judge to choose in a unique way. Now, since it is extremely important for us in the Twohs that when you talk about something, be professional. So it is very important that we do not follow the example now applied in the ruling regime. You took away the word to Srdjan Leg of me as an agronomist put me in a position to talk about these important things, so I just have to conclude that you turned it off because he was telling the truth. To repeat that you will not be able to silence him, nor will any of the MPs of the Dwri. So the public and citizens today have had the opportunity to hear why this proposed law is controversial and what the ruling regime is trying to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16118	The word is made by the People's MP Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16119	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Another in a series of amendments resulting from the fact that all four amendments and additions to the law contain one clear intention that today is not only for fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, but for all citizens and citizens completely clear. In this amendment, it is said that it is actually possible to extend the judicial office only to those judges elected to office, or to the office of the President of the Court, so that the extension of the judicial post will be a reward for the way they served as President of the Court. Therefore, the politically elected presidents of the courts will be allowed to extend their duties as judges, while all other judges will be disabled, because they will, of course, retire when they get the conditions, when they acquire retirement age. So here it is, the fact is that five years of the term of office of the President of the Court, despite the fact that the judge has acquired the conditions for retirement, allows for a new term for another four years, on the inadmissible discrimination that is contrary to the Constitution, the intention to strengthen the, tightened space for political influence. All these bill proposals, consequently all of our amendments, all of our arguments, all the open issues that we have reminded here today in the discussion, have come to the fore because it is clear today that the urgent, without public debate, contrary to the opinion of the judge's society, the opposite of the rule of law, the opposite of the principle of division of power, the Action Plan for Chapter 23, does everything to strengthen and tighten the political influence on the presidents of the courts who, according to the judges themselves, say in many polls each year that political influence comes first through political authority representatives, the second through the President of the courts. This intention that has been realised through the draft amendments to the laws coming from representatives of the largest parliamentary group, the SNS, is the nakeded intention to mutilate and strengthen political influence on the presidents of the courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16120	The word has a folk MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16121	Thank you. This member practically gives the judges elected according to the current law for the presidents of the courts with a five-year term the opportunity for these judges to have another four-year term, so we now have a situation of complete inequality among the judges, the presidents of the courts also. First, the law allows the presidents of judges who are judges to treat differently than all other judges, that their judicial function, not the functions of the judge's president, to cease on different terms than the conditions that all other judges have. It's the first anti-constitutional thing. Then we now have a situation where we will have the presidents of the courts who will be two terms, four years plus four years, and we will have the presidents of the courts who will now be in office of five, and plus four after that, nine years. So, one complete papaziania. Of course, there's only one thing coming out of this, and that's exactly what I asked the minister of justice when she was here on Friday, so she didn't answer, and that's how much the judge falls under this Article of the 3rd Law, that is how many judges we have who are currently presidents of the courts who would have to stop being presidents of the courts because they're running out of mandate, the judge's office stands out, and that's why the president of the court's office, because of the retirement, how many such judges today are going to be affected by this member of the law? Practically, fellow MPs also talk about the fact that this law and this provision, Article 3, directly refer to judges who would have to retire, however, on their necks on their noses, by an urgent procedure we are passing this law, to prevent it, and it is now a dead race between them who are going into retirement and the date on which this law takes effect. Practically, the whole rush is about it. This is what Serbian citizens must know, in what way laws are passed, that they serve one individual purpose in order to protect those judges, party judges who would retire that this Article 3 was passed and this whole law has not been passed and is trying to do so by passing the law as soon as possible to prevent it. We've been doing a little analysis of the president of the courts, so we have a question for the president, or the minister of justice, who is not here today, that is, expressing a deep disrespect for this House, which is – is this referring to the President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad? Or does this provision, if it does not arrive on the agenda in time for this law to be passed, will the President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, in fact, lose his position as President of the Court, so we rush to the front of the court to pass this law in order to prevent it? The very specific question that remains is also not answered for all judges, since it should be analysed, and the obligation when laws like this are passed, to analyse all courts, to see how many judges are affected by these provisions? Here, we've done a little analysis and we've come to the conclusion that at least the President of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad is, in fact, in the position that this amendment of the law is affecting him. So this is against the constitution, since the judges are in a different position by law and the president of the courts are even in a different position by law, some will be five years, some nine, some eight, have different rights, especially the part relating to the duration of the judge's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16122	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16123	Thank you. In Serbia there are at least 140, if not more, the president of courts who are excellent, safe and based on the Constitution and the law are doing their job. Their good results will be forgotten by this debate. Honorable judges who are also dedicated to the election of a subpoena are holding their subpoena as the president of the courts. Why did we let ourselves do that? This Article 3 that we propose to delete can define exactly who we allow it to be. Even if we swallow a completely unreasonable and irresponsible intention to put ourselves on four by law for five years and then to re-election, Article 3 shows you who these people are. So you're looking for the president of a court whose court office ends in the next eight days, or the office of the President of the Court, because an amendment has been adopted that sets the law into effect the next day since the day of its publication. Why are we doing this? Why are we doing this? In June, there will be a debate in Brussels on how we apply the Action Plan and what are the criteria for Chapter 23. This, or whoever they are, and we will find them, I will have a parliamentary question for the High Council of the judiciary and for the Minister of Justice to provide me with the names of the people to whom the judicial office stands out in the next eight days and the names of the people to whom the work internship expires in 2017. Because it's not all about the presidents of Serbia's courts. It's just about the ones that made Article 3. Is all this debate worth it? Is it worth insulting the work of a good judge? Is it worth it when we put this same law out of force in a few months, but the President of the Court will already be the President of the Court and will not be resolved? We will have to amend this law, as we will have to submit by the end of December a proposal to amend the Constitution in which three-year elections of judges changing the position and composition of VSS and other judicial bodies are constitutionally abolished by giving them full independence, excluding the National Assembly from any part of the judiciary. That's what we said in Chapter 23 that we wanted to do, and today, May 15, we're changing the law for how many names? Who are these people? To what do they deserve to humiliate themselves and more importantly than we do, we, the MPs with less or more pleasure in folklore exchanges of unnecessary language locks about who did what to whom and when, what did the good, honest presidents of the courts do to afford them such a debate? Don't ever do that again. You have 126, whoever has it, whoever's 126, and the names of the people who will become presidents of the courts will be known to all of us and we want to say that these people's names are not the names of all the presidents in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16124	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16125	In order to work more efficiently, I give up the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16126	Thank you. The 4th Amendment in the same text was submitted by MP Zoran Zivkovic, MP of the people, Marinika Tepic, joint MPs Vjerica Radet, Zoran Krasic, Nemanja Sarović and Sreto Perić and joint MPs Goran Ćirić, Goran Jesic, Mr Aleksandra Jerkov, Balša Bozovic, Radoslav Milojic, Maja Vidinović, Gordana Comić, Tomislav Žigmanov, Dusan Petrovic, Veroljub Stevanović and Dejan Nikolic. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Zoran Krasic.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16127	We have submitted this amendment because it really wouldn't make sense if we were looking for the first three members to delete, not to ask for the fourth term. But there's been some change. The chairman of the Justice Committee has tabled an amendment, and the proposer has accepted the amendment, and this now reads so that the law enters into force the next day of publication in the "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia". The rule is it's day eight. If it's proposed to be sooner, then there's got to be some valid reason. There's no valid reason, at least I haven't seen it exist, nor in the text of the amendment that's been accepted, but I have to draw attention. If today, when we conclude this debate on this bill and if it is voted today and if it is announced today, it will take effect the next day, i.e. Tomorrow. Then, if you choose those presidents of the court, because that's the point of the agenda of this session, then you're practically choosing according to the existing law for a five-year term. We have one paradoxical situation that on the day of the vote, we reduce the period from five to four years, and by individual decisions we choose people to five years. This does not suffer any logical control unless you postpone the vote for the presidents of the courts for the next day, which again does not suffer logical control for one simple reason, because these people, when they reported themselves to be the presidents of the courts, calculated that they would be presidents for five years and not four years. So obviously this operation didn't work out. I was going to write to the Constitutional Court after this, and I'm not going to write for one simple reason because in three years, they're going to make a decision to say that this is not in accordance with the Constitution. That is how they replied to me for the Statute of Vojvodina, the Law on Financing, that regulation that was adopted on the basis of the Brussels Agreement, and this Instructions on Voting in Elections in Kosovo and Metohija. Always with three years of delay they say you were right, and in three years they say I'm right again would be extremely offensive. I call on those who are willing to address the Constitutional Court with one initiative, I also call on judges to turn, because they too need to guard the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia, and I remind MPs that the excessive obligation of the MPs, whether they are layman or not, is respect and safeguarding the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, to conclude, the amendments submitted by the SRS are not due to the opening and closing of chapters but above all to the preservation of the constitutional system of the Republic of Serbia and if you consider changing the Constitution...
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16128	Thank you, colleague Krasic. The word is Marko Djurisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16129	I would certainly like to say something about Article 4, as it has been changed by the motionary by accepting the amendments of the second colleague. The legal order is further violated by the fact that, instead of the usual and the Constitution prescribed eight days after the entry into force of a certain law, the deadline is reduced to only one day, or the day of publication in the "Official Messenger" this law will enter into force. I would like to hear if this was done in order for those judges who are due at the end of this session to be elected to the seats of the President of the Courts, and there may be seven of them, may be fewer, we have heard that there are MPs of the ruling majority of a particular reserve, whether they will be elected by old or new law, or whether they will be elected to a term of office of four or five years, as something has been said little in the principle debate, or is it actually done because the term of termination of the term of office is nearing to one of those loyal presidents who are actually changing this law? And, because we came by the irresponsible majority who took a commitment, is now, because the calendar seems to be faster than they are, adopting this amendment and the law instead of the prescribed eight days under the Constitution should take effect the next day? It is bad practice, as is bad for every member of this proposed law, and that is why we of the Social Democratic Party Group will not vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16130	Thank you. On Article 4th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16131	Thank you. Since Mr. Petar Petrovic's amendment has been accepted, I am withdrawing mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16132	Thank you. National MP Petar Petrovic submitted to the 4th amendment. Proposer, MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I realize this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16133	Thank you. I think this amendment is actually rounding up the whole story. For citizens to know, the amendment says this law does not take effect on the eighth day since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger", but the next day. So we have one of two situations. Or we now have the presidents of the courts who get the pension conditions for the next eight days, so we need to hurry up with this law to prevent them from going into retirement under the law that is currently in force, or some of these presidents who are supposed to be appointed by the Assembly should, or the urgency is to be appointed under the new law, so back-to-back to adopt this law on judges, so that in eight days, the National Assembly's decision on the appointment of these judges. Either of these two variants that it is, shows us the clear play of the ruling majority with the rule of law. This really doesn't look like anything. Laws are passed to keep certain people in some functions or to be placed on certain functions, people who, under current law, would not be able to perform that function. This is a couple of excellant examples of the full subjugation of the judiciary under party authority. Not even the executive power anymore, but the party power that practically took over all branches of power. This amendment shows deep immorality, and it's a shame to even talk about it. Of course, the MP group "Enough Has Been" will not support this amendment or this really embarrassing law. We will refer to the Constitutional Court, regardless, as counterpart Krasic says, how long their decision-making takes, the initiative to declare this law against the constitution. However, if not, the first time we are on the chance, with 126 MPs, we will change the law and put it back into the frames of what should be normal. I repeat, this law is immoral and unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16134	The word is made by the People's MP Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16135	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The last proposal to amend the Law on Judges, and the transitional and final provisions, which may seem to be done to someone else in technical matters, additional intervention by the chairman of the Justice Committee is only bareing everything we have been saying for several days. It boasts that this unprecedented haste, this blow to the rule of law by the head of the SNS parliamentary group, a blow to the opinion of the judges, this passing of these amendments without public debate, by an urgent procedure, is merely a matter of the fact that there are some names and last names of the judges behind this proposal, that these names and the last names of the president of the courts are some cases that are under way or are waiting for them. These are the questions that have lost their answers during today’s discussion. If something is bareing the intention which today is clear to every citizen and citizen, it is the fact that this law which strikes the rule of law, the rule of law, the discrimination of judges, the independence of the government, in this fact that the desire of the ruling coalition is that it enters into force tomorrow is absolutely clear to all.
ParlaMint-RS_2017-05-15-0.u16136	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has concluded the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of Regulation (EU) No 515/2013, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint 15 May 2017, starting at 15 hours and 20 minutes, as the day for voting on the agendas of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, before we move on to a decision, we need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 145 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, we move on to a decision. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on judges, in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 versus – 17 abstentions – there are no, there are no seven votes, of a total of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become the amendment of MP Petar Petrovic to Article 4. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Alexander Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Djordje Vukadinovic, five MPs of the SDS, the People's Movement of Serbia, four MPs of the SRS group, 11 MPs of the DS group and seven MPs of the Dveri group submitted to the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention for – 14, no one who has been abstained, no one who has voted 157 Members of the people. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164, out of 170 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. The First Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Dijana Vukomanovic and Goran Pekarski. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 157 out of 170 MPs, for – 13 against. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 2 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Djordje Vukadinovic, five MPs of the SDS, the People's Movement of Serbia, four MPs of the SRS group, 11 MPs of the DS group and seven MPs of the Dveri group submitted. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 out of 172 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. Member of the 2nd amendment with a correction was submitted by MP Marijan Risticevic. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, abstention – there is no vote, 165, out of 172 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Alexander Cabraj, Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, Djordje Vukadinovic, five MPs of the SDS, the People's Movement of Serbia, four MPs of the SRS group, 11 MPs of the DS group and seven MPs of the Dveri group submitted to the same amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, no one, with abstentions, voted 147 out of 175 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – two abstentions – there is no vote of 167, out of the 174 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. National MPs Zoran Zivkovic, Marinika Tepic, four MPs of the SRS parliamentary group, 11 MPs of the DS, submitted to the 4th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 out of 175 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. On Article 4th of the amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 167, out of the 174 MPs. I find that the amendment has not been accepted. I remind you that the amendment to the 4th People's MP, Petar Petrovic, which became an integral part of the bill envisioned that this law enters into force the next day of publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts which enter into force at the earliest eighth day of the day of publication and may only enter into force earlier if there are, therefore, particularly justified reasons set out when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140 MPs, against – 21, with abstention – there is no vote, not 13 out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within a shorter period than the eighth day of its publication. After we have completed our decision by amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142 MPs, against – 22 abstentions – there is no, there is no vote 10, out of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges. Since we now need to decide on the Proposals for a Law on Confirmation of International Contracts 2rd and 3rd item of the agenda. I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(3), point 6. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs, bearing that in mind, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the loan agreement, the first programme loan for development policies in the field of public expenditure and public enterprises between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in general. I conclude the vote and declare: 17 of the 167 MPs did not vote for – 141 MPs, against – six, with abstention – three. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Financial Treaty, "Improvement of Justice Authorities B" between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank in general. I conclude the vote and declare: 22 of the 167 MPs did not vote for – 142 MPs, against – two, abstention – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. As we now move to a decision on Election and Resolution Proposals from item 4 to point 44 of the agenda, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of Election Jurisdiction, holds most of the votes of all the MPs. With that in mind, we're going to make a decision. I would like to put the motion to vote on the termination of the office of a member of the High Council of the judiciary in the order of Prof. Law school in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142 MPs, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, 24 of the 167 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting the motion to suspend the office of the President of the Court of Appeal in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 MPs, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 25 out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting the motion to suspend the public prosecutor's office in the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 MPs, against – none of the abstentions – have voted 23 out of the 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on a motion to suspend the office of a public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Cacca in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 MPs, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 23 out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on the proposal for a candidate for a member of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, which was submitted by the deans of the Law Faculty in the Republic of Serbia at a joint session, which was proposed by Professor Ranko Kec as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 MPs, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 23 out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Professor Rank Ketch as a member of the High Council of the Judiciary by majority of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate Professor Ranka Ketchi on his election and wish him much success in his work. Before we move on to the vote on this item of the agenda, I remind you of the provisions of Article 201, paragraphs 3 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which reads: “In the course of the search at the meeting of the committee of directors and at the session of the National Assembly, the MP may challenge the proposal for the selection of individual officials referred to in Article 1, in which this dispute must be explicitly and reasoned. On a proposal to elect each of the disputed candidates, the National Assembly decides individually, and on a proposal to elect candidates who are not disputed to decide in general, by public vote." In accordance with these provisions, I would firstly like to put the motion to elect Marina Zivkovic, Judge of the Higher Court in Piroth, and whose proposal has been challenged by MPs Biljana Pantic Pilja, Marko Atlagic and Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm asking my colleagues to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one MP, against – one abstention – there is no vote, 164 of the 166 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Marina Zivkovic to be the president of the Supreme Court in Piroth. I now put to the vote the proposal to elect for President of the First Basic Court in Belgrade Natalija Bobot, Judge of the High Court in Belgrade, and whose proposal has been challenged by MPs Biljana Pantic Pilja, Marko Atlagic and Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13 MPs, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 out of 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not elect Natalia Bobbot as president of the First Basic Court in Belgrade. I now put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court without disputed candidates in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 MPs, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 25 out of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision in general by majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142 MPs, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 25 out of 167 MPs. I find that by the majority of the votes of all MPs, the National Assembly adopted a motion for a decision before we move to a decision, I remind you that the government has proposed more candidates than the number elected so that the list of candidates for the election of war crimes prosecutors contains two candidates from which the National Assembly elects one. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the proposal to elect Snezana Stanojkovic, deputy public prosecutor at the First Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, for the war crimes prosecutor. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 153 MPs, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 14 of the 169 MPs did not vote. I am putting forward a motion for Milan Petrovic, deputy war crimes prosecutor to be elected. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the two abstentions, voted 155 out of the 157 MPs. Based on the results of the vote, I find that the National Assembly for War Crimes Prosecutors has chosen Snezana Stanojkovic. Let me congratulate her on her choice and wish her much success in her work. I remind you that the lists of candidates for the election of a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Panchev contain two candidates from which the National Assembly elects one. With that in mind, we're going to make a decision. I am voting on the proposal to elect Gordana Colic, deputy public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Pancev, to be the deputy public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Pancev. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 156 out of 156 MPs. I am voting on a proposal to elect Nebojsa Zivkovic, deputy public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Pancevo, in Belgrade. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, v – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 11 of the 155 MPs did not vote. Based on the results of the vote, I find that the National Assembly for Public Prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Panchev has chosen Nebojsa Zivkovic. I remind you that the lists of candidates for the election of a public prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevec include three candidates from which the National Assembly elects one. With that in mind, we're going to make a decision. I am voting on a proposal to elect Momcilo Dedic, deputy public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevc, as deputy prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – one, with abstention – voted 154 out of 155 MPs. I am voting on a proposal to elect Natasa Trninic, deputy public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevc, to be the deputy prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 out of 154 MPs. I am putting forward a motion to elect Aleksandra Grbovic, deputy public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevc, to be elected by the Deputy Public Prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 out of 154 MPs. Based on the results of the vote, I find that the National Assembly did not elect a public prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Pogorevec. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Zajecar, in general. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention for – one of the 153 of the 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Piroth, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, no one, with abstentions, voted 11 out of 153 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by a majority of all the votes of the MPs, has adopted a motion for a decision. I remind you that the list of candidates for the election of a public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis contains two candidates from which the National Assembly elects one. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the proposal to elect Aleksandar Radosavljevic, deputy public prosecutor at the Niš General Public Prosecutor's Office. I conclude the vote and I declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 153 MPs I am voting on the motion for a decision to elect Sasa Djokic, deputy public prosecutor at the General Prosecutor's Office in Nis, for a public prosecutor in Nis. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, no one, with abstentions, voted 13 out of 153 MPs. Based on the results of the vote, I find that the National Assembly of Public Prosecutors in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis has chosen Sas Djokic. I remind you that the list of candidates for the election of a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Mladenov contains two candidates from which the National Assembly elects one. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the proposal to elect Ivan Konatar, deputy public prosecutor at the First General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, as the deputy public prosecutor. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 against – no one, with abstention – voted 11 out of the 152 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Alexander D. D. Djordjevic, deputy public prosecutor at the Third General Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, as the public prosecutor's deputy prosecutor. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 151 out of the 151 MPs. Based on the results of the vote, I find that the National Assembly for Public Prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Mladenov has chosen Ivan Konatar. I remind you that the list of candidates for the election of a public prosecutor at the Vrbas Public Prosecutor's Office contains two candidates, of which the National Assembly elects one. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am voting on a proposal to elect Aleksandar Amidzic, deputy public prosecutor at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad, to be elected as public prosecutor. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 151 out of the 151 MPs. I am voting on the proposal to elect Branislav Leptic, deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Vrbas, to be the deputy public prosecutor in Novi Sad. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – no one with abstention – voted 11 out of 151 MPs. Based on the results of the vote, I find that the National Assembly for Public Prosecutor at the Vrbas Public Prosecutor's Office has chosen Branislav Lepovic. I remind you that the list of candidates for the election of a public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Old Paz contains two candidates, of which the National Assembly elects one. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am putting the motion to elect Slobodan Neskovic Bratuša, deputy public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Stari Pazova, to be elected. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against one, abstained—no one, voted 150 MPs, out of a total of 151 MPs. I am voting on a proposal to elect Vladimir Nikolic, deputy public prosecutor at the Stari Paza Public Prosecutor's Office. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 140 MPs, against - no one, abstentioned - no one voted 11 out of a total of 151 MPs. Based on the results of the vote, I find that the National Assembly for Public Prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Stari Pazova has elected Vladimir Nikolic. I remind you that the list of candidates for the election of a public prosecutor in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office of the Great Plan originally contained two candidates. However, the State Major Prosecutors informed the Committee on Justice, State Administration and the Local Self-Government of the National Assembly that the candidate under regular number 1, Radislav Jovanovic, had ceased his post as a result of the permanent loss of work capacity, as established in the Report of the Committee, so that person could no longer be a candidate for the public prosecutor's office. Therefore, only the remaining candidate will be declared by the National Assembly. With that in mind, I am voting on the proposal to elect Slavica Ivanovic, deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in the Great Plan. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 140 MPs, against - no one, abstentioned - no one voted 11 out of a total of 151 MPs. Based on the results of the vote, I find that the National Assembly for Public Prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in the Great Plan has chosen Slavica Ivanovic. I remind you that the list of candidates for the election of a public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Prepolje contains two candidates, of which the National Assembly elects one. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the proposal to elect Jasminka Boskovic, deputy public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Prepolje. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, has ever voted 151 people's messenger, of a total of 151 people's messengers. I am voting on the proposal to elect Petko Pucarevic, deputy public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Prepolje. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 150, out of a total of 151 MPs. Based on the results of the vote, I find that the National Assembly did not elect a prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Prepolje. I remind you that the list of candidates for the election of a public prosecutor at the New Market Public Prosecutor's Office contains four candidates, of which the National Assembly elects one. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the proposal to elect Jovan Milanovic, deputy public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, has ever voted before 152 MPs, out of a total of 152 people's messengers. I am voting on a proposal to elect a public prosecutor in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar to Hasbi Alibasic, deputy public prosecutor at the New Pazar Public Prosecutor's Office. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, has ever voted before 152 MPs, out of a total of 152 people's messengers. I am putting forward a motion to elect a public prosecutor at the New Pazar Public Prosecutor's Office to elect Adnan Bacicanin, a prosecutor's assistant at the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, has ever voted before 152 MPs, out of a total of 152 people's messengers. I am voting on a proposal to elect a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Novi Pazar, Nermin Koškovac, deputy public prosecutor at the New Pazar Public Prosecutor's Office. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 versus – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 11 MPs, of a total of 152 MPs. Based on the results of the vote, I find that the National Assembly for Public Prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar has chosen Nermin Koškovec. I put the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Zajecar, as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 versus – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 11 MPs, of a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor at the Vranj General Prosecutor's Office, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, abstentioned, has voted 150 MPs, of a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Alexinec, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 10 MPs, of a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in Petrovac's primary public prosecutor at Mlava, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, has ever voted before 152 MPs, out of a total of 152 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Despotovac, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted nine MPs, of a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against another, no one, abstentioned, one, voted 150 MPs, out of a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted the motion for a decision. I put the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Pirot, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against whom no one, abstentioned, has ever voted before 152 MPs, out of a total of 152 people's messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted the motion for a decision. I put the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Negotin, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, against – no one, abstentioned – no one voted 10 MPs, of a total of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Kursumlia, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 141 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted 11 out of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Ruma, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 10, of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Somboro, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 10, of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Bruce, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152, of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted the motion for a decision. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Bor, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152, of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted the motion for a decision. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of a public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Prokuplje, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152, of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted the motion for a decision. I put the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Loznica, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152, of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Panchev, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152, of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted the motion for a decision. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Valjevo, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 142, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 10, of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I am voting on a motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Mionica, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, no one, with abstentions, voted 13 out of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. According to Article 201(3) and (4) Rules of Procedure, it is necessary first to make a statement on the contested candidate, and then on the proposal for a decision in general. I am putting forward a motion to elect Miljan Dedic, prosecutor's assistant in Belgrade's First General Public Prosecutor's Office, whose proposal has been challenged by MP Srdjan Nogo. I conclude the vote and find that the National Assembly chose Miljan Dedic as deputy public prosecutor in the Third General Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade by majority of the votes of all MPs. I now put to the vote the motion for a decision to elect a public prosecutor's deputy, without a disputed candidate, as a whole. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, against – no one, with abstention – voted 12, of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision in general by majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for an authentic interpretation of the provision of Article 82(2). Laws on state-owned Prime Ministers and Catastros, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 139, no one, with abstentions, voted 13 out of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for authentic interpretation. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 14 out of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – no one, with abstention – has voted eight out of the total of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Saša Radulovic, at a session on 11 May 2017, at 14 hours and 44 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 27(2) and Article 157. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against - one, abstention - has voted 144 of the total 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Srdjan Nogo, at a session on 11 May 2017, at 18 hours and 28 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one who has abstention in favour of - two against - there is no one who has been abstaining - who has not voted 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 11 May 2017, at 19 hours and 35 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 100. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - one, abstention - none, 141 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Maja Vidinović, at a session on 11 May 2017, at 19 hours and 45 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions - did not vote 142 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Sonja Pavlovic, at a session on 12 May 2017, at 12 hours and 55 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, with abstention - voted 146 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov's National MP, at a session on 12 May 2017, at 15 hours and 50 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - no one, abstentioned - one, has voted 141 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 15 May 2017, at 11 o'clock and 16 minutes, pointed to a violation of Articles 104 and 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - two, abstained - one, voted 142 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Marijan Risticevic, at a session on 15 May 2017, at 11 o'clock and 17 minutes, pointed to a violation of Articles 103, 105, 108 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against - no one, with abstentions, voted 139 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Bosko Obradović, at a session on 15 May 2017, at 11 o'clock and 35 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - no one, abstentioned - one, has voted 142 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Saša Radulovic, at a session on 15 May 2017, at 11 o'clock and 38 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for - no one, against - no one, abstention - one, voted 143 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nemanja Sarovic, at a session on 15 May 2017, at 12 hours and 58 minutes, pointed to the violation of members 107 and 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against - one, abstention - one, voted 143 of the total attendance of 144 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Radoslav Milojic, at a session on 15 May 2017, at 13 hours and 25 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 108. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against - no one, abstentioned - voted 139 of the 139 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2017.
